<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110228_10-K_edgar_data_310158_0000950123-11-019286_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>32368349</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>994168</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5662170</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1689472</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7266304</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>16163691</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>99</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>18</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-11-019286.hdr.sgml : 20110228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110228080534
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-11-019286
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		23
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Merck & Co. Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000310158
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				221918501
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06571
		FILM NUMBER:		11643167

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MERCK DRIVE
		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 100
		CITY:			WHITEHOUSE STATION
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08889-0100
		BUSINESS PHONE:		908-423-4840

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MERCK DRIVE
		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 100
		CITY:			WHITEHOUSE STATION
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08889-0100

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHERING PLOUGH CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 DkKZL3TPDmrdjvFUvtC80ujaZF5LhedRkbPt/LPReer8VJfz6alyQX8Zd8tWiwpy
 Ayk3Hrqd6g3x6Fsc8p0wxw==

 0000950123-11-019286.txt : 20110228

10-K
 1
 y87773e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

As filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    February 28, 2011 

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    COMMISSION  

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K   

Commission File
     No. 1-6571  

Merck   Co., Inc. 
       One Merck Drive 
    Whitehouse Station, N. J.
     08889-0100  
     (908) 423-1000 

Securities Registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Name of Each Exchange 

Title of Each Class  

on which Registered  

Common Stock ($0.50 par value)

New York Stock Exchange

Number of shares of Common Stock ($0.50 par value)
    outstanding as of January 31, 2011: 3,083,080,697.

Aggregate market value of Common Stock ($0.50 par value)
    held by non-affiliates on June 30, 2010 based on closing
    price on June 30, 2010: $107,724,000,000.

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.   Yes         No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.   Yes         No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.   Yes         No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to submit and post such
    files).   Yes           No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    (  229.405) is not contained herein, and will not be
    contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
    definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
    reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check One):

Large
    accelerated
    filer    
      
           Accelerated
    filer    
      
            Non-accelerated
    filer         
      
           Smaller
    reporting
    company    

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).   Yes         No    

Documents
    Incorporated by Reference:  

Document 

Part of Form 10-K 

Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of 
    Shareholders to be held May 24, 2011, to be filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
    the close of the fiscal year covered by this report

Part III

Table of
    Contents  

Page 

Part I 

Item 1.

Business

2

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

23

Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results

36

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

37

Item 2.

Properties

37

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

38

Executive Officers of the Registrant

38

Item 4.

Reserved

Part II 

Item 5.

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
    Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

42

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

45

Item 7.

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations

46

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

88

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

89

(a)   Financial Statements

89

Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements

93

Report of Independent
    Registered Public Accounting Firm

158

(b)   Supplementary Data

159

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure

160

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

160

Management s Report

160

Item 9B.

Other Information

161

Part III 

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

162

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

162

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
    and Related Stockholder Matters

162

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence

162

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

163

Part IV 

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

163

Signatures

170

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

172

PART I  

Item 1.    

Business.  

The Company is a global health care company that delivers
    innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines,
    vaccines, biologic therapies, animal health, and consumer care
    products, which it markets directly and through its joint
    ventures. The Company s operations are principally managed
    on a products basis and are comprised of four operating
    segments, which are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Consumer
    Care and Alliances segments, and one reportable segment, which
    is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment
    includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products
    marketed either directly by the Company or through joint
    ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of
    therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by
    prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company
    sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to
    drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies
    and managed health care providers such as health maintenance
    organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions.
    Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and
    adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The
    Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to
    physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government
    entities. The Company also has animal health operations that
    discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health
    products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to
    veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Additionally,
    the Company has consumer care operations that develop,
    manufacture and market
     over-the-counter, 
    foot care and sun care products, which are sold through
    wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser
    outlets in the United States and Canada.

On November 3, 2009, Merck   Co., Inc. ( Old
    Merck ) and Schering-Plough Corporation
    ( Schering-Plough ) merged (the  Merger ).
    In the Merger, Schering-Plough acquired all of the shares of Old
    Merck, which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schering-Plough
    and was renamed Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.
    Schering-Plough continued as the surviving public company and
    was renamed Merck   Co., Inc. ( New Merck 
    or the  Company ). However, for accounting purposes
    only, the Merger was treated as an acquisition with Old Merck
    considered the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the
    accompanying financial statements reflect Old Merck s
    stand-alone operations as they existed prior to the completion
    of the Merger. The results of Schering-Plough s business
    have been included in New Merck s financial statements only
    for periods subsequent to the completion of the Merger.
    Therefore, New Merck s financial results for 2009 do not
    reflect a full year of legacy Schering-Plough operations.
    References in this report and in the accompanying financial
    statements to  Merck  for periods prior to the Merger
    refer to Old Merck and for periods after the completion of the
    Merger to New Merck.

For financial information and other information about the
    Pharmaceutical segment, see Item 7.  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  and Item 8.  Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data  below.

All product or service marks appearing in type form different
    from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service
    marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its
    subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted.  Cozaar  and
     Hyzaar  are registered trademarks of E.I. du Pont de
    Nemours and Company, Wilmington, DE. All other trademarks or
    services marks are those of their respective owners.

Overview  

During 2010, the Company made progress driving revenue growth
    for key products, expanding its global reach including within
    emerging markets, improving its cost structure, making strategic
    investments in its business and advancing its late-stage
    pipeline, while continuing the task of integrating the legacy
    companies post-Merger.

Sales increased to $46.0 billion in 2010 driven largely by
    incremental revenue resulting from the inclusion of a full year
    of results for legacy Schering-Plough products, such as
     Remicade  (infliximab) ,  a treatment for
    inflammatory diseases,  Nasonex  (mometasone furoate
    monohydrate), an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment
    of nasal allergy symptoms,  Temodar  (temozolomide) ,
     a treatment for certain types of brain tumors,  PegIntron
     (peginterferon
     alpha-2b) 
    for treating chronic hepatitis C, and  Clarinex
     (desloratadine), a non-sedating antihistamine, as well as by
    the inclusion of a full year of results for  Zetia
     (ezetimibe) and  Vytorin  (ezetimibe/simvastatin),
    cholesterol modifying medicines. Prior to the Merger,
    substantially all sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  were

2

recognized by the Merck/Schering-Plough Partnership (the
     MSP Partnership ) and the results of Old Merck s
    interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity
    income from affiliates . As a result of the Merger, the MSP
    Partnership is wholly-owned by the Company and therefore
    revenues from these products are now reflected in  Sales .
    Additionally, the Company recognized a full year of sales in
    2010 from legacy Schering-Plough animal health and consumer care
    products. Sales for 2009 only include revenue from legacy
    Schering-Plough and MSP Partnership products for the post-Merger
    period through December 31, 2009. Also contributing to the
    sales increase was growth in  Januvia  (sitagliptin
    phosphate) and  Janumet  (sitagliptin phosphate and
    metformin hydrochloride) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes,
     Isentress  (raltegravir), an antiretroviral therapy for
    use in combination therapy for the treatment of HIV-1 infection
    in adult patients, and  Singulair  (montelukast sodium), a
    medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the
    relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis. These increases were
    partially offset by lower sales of  Cozaar  (losartan
    potassium) and  Hyzaar  (losartan potassium and
    hydrochlorothiazide) for the treatment of hypertension, which
    lost patent protection in the United States in April 2010 and in
    a number of major European markets in March 2010. Revenue was
    also negatively affected by lower sales of  Fosamax
     (alendronate sodium) and  Fosamax Plus D  (alendronate
    sodium/cholecalciferol) for the treatment and, in the case of
     Fosamax , prevention of osteoporosis, which have lost
    market exclusivity in the United States and in several major
    European markets, and lower revenue from the Company s
    relationship with AstraZeneca LP ( AZLP ), as well as
    by lower sales of  Gardasil  [human papillomavirus
    quadrivalent (types 6, 11, 16 and 18) vaccine,
    recombinant], a vaccine to help prevent cervical, vulvar,
    vaginal and anal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions,
    and genital warts caused by the human papillomavirus
    ( HPV ) types contained in the vaccine, and lower
    sales of  Zocor  (simvastatin) ,  the Company s
    statin for modifying cholesterol. In addition, the
    implementation of certain provisions of U.S. health care
    reform legislation during 2010 resulted in increased Medicaid
    rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues by approximately
    $170 million. Additionally, many countries in the European
    Union ( EU ) have undertaken austerity measures aimed
    at reducing costs in health care and have implemented pricing
    actions that negatively impacted sales in 2010.

Sales of  Remicade  and a follow-on product,
     Simponi , were $2.8 billion in the aggregate in 2010.
    The Company is involved in an arbitration with Centocor Ortho
    Biotech, Inc. ( Centocor ), a subsidiary of
    Johnson   Johnson, in which Centocor is seeking to
    terminate the Company s rights to continue to market
     Remicade  and  Simponi . The arbitration hearing has
    concluded and the Company is awaiting the arbitration
    panel s decision. See Item 8.  Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data,  Note 12.
     Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities  below.
    An unfavorable outcome in the arbitration would have a material
    adverse effect on the Company s financial position,
    liquidity and results of operations.

Since the Merger, the Company has continued the advancement of
    drug candidates through its pipeline. During 2010, the
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA )
    approved  Dulera  Inhalation Aerosol (mometasone
    furoate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate), a new fixed-dose
    combination asthma treatment for patients 12 years of age
    and older. In addition, the intravenous formulation of
     Brinavess  (vernakalant), for which Merck has exclusive
    marketing rights outside of the United States, Canada and
    Mexico, was granted marketing approval in the EU for the rapid
    conversion of recent onset atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm
    in adults: for non-surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of
    seven days or less and for post-cardiac surgery patients with
    atrial fibrillation of three days or less.

Also during 2010, the FDA approved a new indication for
     Gardasil  for the prevention of anal cancer caused by HPV
    types 16 and 18 and for the prevention of anal intraepithelial
    neoplasia grades 1, 2 and 3 (anal dysplasias and precancerous
    lesions) caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18, in males and
    females 9 through 26 years of age. Additionally, in
    September 2010, two supplemental New Drug Applications
    ( sNDA ) for  Saphris  (asenapine) for the
    treatment of schizophrenia in adults and acute treatment of
    bipolar I disorder in adults were approved in the United States
    to expand the product s indications. Also during 2010, the
    Company entered into a co-promotion agreement for the
    commercialization of  Daxas , a treatment for symptomatic
    chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, which the Company
    launched in certain European markets.

The Company currently has three candidates under review with the
    FDA: boceprevir, an investigational oral hepatitis C
    protease inhibitor; MK-0431A XR, the Company s
    investigational extended-release formulation of  Janumet ;
    and MK-0431D, an investigational combination of  Januvia 
    and  Zocor  for the treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia.
    In addition, SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, an oral contraceptive that
    combines a selective progestin with 17-beta estradiol, is
    currently under review in the EU. Additionally, MK-3009, Cubicin
    daptomycin for injection, is

3

currently under review in Japan where the Company has marketing
    rights. Also, the Company currently has 19 candidates in
    Phase III development and anticipates making a New Drug
    Application ( NDA ) with respect to certain of these
    candidates in 2011 including MK-8669, ridaforolimus, a novel
    mTOR inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of metastatic
    soft tissue and bone sarcomas; MK-2452,  Saflutan
     (tafluprost), for the reduction of elevated intraocular
    pressure in appropriate patients with primary open-angle
    glaucoma and ocular hypertension; MK-0653C, ezetimibe combined
    with atorvastatin, which is an investigational medication for
    the treatment of dyslipidemia; and MK-0974, telcagepant, the
    Company s investigational medication for acute treatment of
    migraine. Another Phase III candidate is vorapaxar with
    respect to which the Company was recently informed by the
    chairman of one of the studies to discontinue study drug and
    that investigators were to begin to close out the study in a
    timely and orderly fashion. The Company recorded a material
    impairment charge on the related intangible asset. See
     Research and Development  below.

The Company continues to make progress in achieving cost savings
    across all areas, including from consolidation in both sales and
    marketing and research and development, the application of the
    Company s lean manufacturing and sourcing strategies to the
    expanded operations, and the full integration of the MSP
    Partnership. These savings result from various actions,
    including the Merger Restructuring Program discussed below,
    previously announced ongoing cost reduction activities at both
    legacy companies, as well as from non-restructuring-related
    activities such as the Company s procurement savings
    initiative. During 2010, the Company realized more than
    $2.0 billion in net cost savings from all of these
    activities.

In February 2010, the Company commenced actions under a global
    restructuring program (the  Merger Restructuring
    Program ) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy
    Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger
    Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure
    of the combined company. Additional actions under the program
    continued during 2010. As part of the restructuring actions
    taken thus far under the Merger Restructuring Program, the
    Company expects to reduce its total workforce measured at the
    time of the Merger by approximately 17% across the Company
    worldwide. In addition, the Company has eliminated over 2,500
    positions which were vacant at the time of the Merger. These
    workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of
    duplicative positions in sales, administrative and headquarters
    organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain
    manufacturing and research and development sites and the
    consolidation of office facilities. The Company will continue to
    pursue productivity efficiencies and evaluate its manufacturing
    supply chain capabilities on an ongoing basis which may result
    in future restructuring actions. During this period, the Company
    also will continue to hire new employees in strategic growth
    areas of the business as necessary. In connection with the
    Merger Restructuring Program, separation costs under the
    Company s existing severance programs worldwide were
    recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 to the extent such costs
    were probable and reasonably estimable. The Company commenced
    accruing costs related to enhanced termination benefits offered
    to employees under the Merger Restructuring Program in the first
    quarter of 2010 when the necessary criteria were met. The
    Company recorded total pretax restructuring costs of
    $1.8 billion in 2010 and $1.5 billion in 2009 related
    to this program. The restructuring actions taken thus far under
    the Merger Restructuring Program are expected to be
    substantially completed by the end of 2012, with the exception
    of certain manufacturing facilities actions, with the total
    cumulative pretax costs estimated to be approximately
    $3.8 billion to $4.6 billion. The Company estimates
    that approximately two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs
    relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation
    expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs
    are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation
    of facilities to be closed or divested. The Company expects the
    restructuring actions taken thus far under the Merger
    Restructuring Program to result in annual savings in 2012 of
    approximately $2.7 billion to $3.1 billion.

In March 2010, the United States enacted health care reform
    legislation. Important market reforms began during 2010 and will
    continue through full implementation in 2014. During 2010, Merck
    incurred costs as a result of the legislation, including
    increased Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced
    revenues. The Company also recorded a charge in 2010 associated
    with this legislation that changed tax law to require taxation
    of the prescription drug subsidy of the Company s retiree
    health benefit plans for which companies receive reimbursement
    under Medicare Part D. Additional provisions of the
    legislation will come into effect in 2011, including the
    assessment of an annual health care reform fee on all branded
    prescription drug manufacturers and importers and the
    requirement that drug manufacturers pay a 50% discount on
    Medicare Part D utilization incurred by beneficiaries when
    they are

4

in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called
     donut hole ). These new provisions will decrease
    revenues and increase costs.

Earnings per common share ( EPS ) assuming dilution
    for 2010 were $0.28, which reflect a net unfavorable impact
    resulting from the amortization of purchase accounting
    adjustments, in-process research and development
    ( IPR D ) impairment charges, including a charge
    related to the vorapaxar clinical development program,
    restructuring and merger-related costs, as well as a legal
    reserve relating to  Vioxx  (the   Vioxx
     Liability Reserve ) discussed below, partially offset
    by the gain recognized on AstraZeneca s exercise of its
    option to acquire certain assets from the Company.
    Non-GAAP EPS in 2010 were $3.42 excluding these items (see
    Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
     Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS  below).

In December 2010, Merck announced that its Board of Directors
    had elected Kenneth C. Frazier, then Merck s president, as
    chief executive officer and president, as well as a member of
    the board, effective January 1, 2011. Mr. Frazier
    succeeds Richard T. Clark, who will continue to serve as
    chairman of the board.

5

Product
    Sales  

Sales  (1)  

    of the Company s products were as follows:

(1)   

Sales of legacy Schering-Plough products reflect results for
    2010 and the post-Merger period in 2009. In addition, prior to
    the Merger, substantially all sales of  Zetia  and
     Vytorin  were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the
    results of Old Merck s interest in the MSP Partnership were
    recorded in  Equity income from affiliates.  As a result of
    the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly-owned by the Company;
    accordingly, all sales of MSP Partnership products after the
    Merger are reflected in the table above. Sales of  Zetia
     and  Vytorin  in 2008 reflect Old Merck s sales of
    these products in Latin America which was not part of the MSP
    Partnership. 

(2)   

These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most
    major European markets through the Company s joint venture,
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected in 
    Equity income from affiliates . These amounts do, however,
    reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. 

(3)   

Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human
    pharmaceutical products, including products within the
    franchises not listed separately .

(4)   

Reflects other non-reportable segments including Animal
    Health and Consumer Care, and revenue from the Company s
    relationship with AZLP primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as
    well as Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.3 billion,
    $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. 

(5)   

Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous
    corporate revenues, third-party manufacturing sales, sales
    related to divested products or businesses and other supply
    sales not included in segment results. 

6

Pharmaceutical  

The Company s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic
    and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the
    treatment of human disorders. Among these are:

Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and
    Dermatology:   Singulair ;  Remicade ;
     Nasonex ;  Fosamax; Clarinex ;  Arcoxia
     (etoricoxib) for the treatment of arthritis and pain;
     Asmanex Twisthaler  (mometasone furoate inhalation
    powder), an oral dry-powder corticosteroid inhaler for
    first-line maintenance treatment of asthma in patients 4 and
    older; and  Proventil HFA  (albuterol sulfate) inhalation
    aerosol for the relief of bronchospasm in patients 12 years
    or older.

Cardiovascular:   Zetia  (marketed as  Ezetrol
     outside the United States);  Vytorin  (marketed as
     Inegy  outside the United States); and  Integrilin
     (eptifibatide) Injection, a platelet receptor GP IIb/IIIa
    inhibitor for the treatment of patients with acute coronary
    syndrome and those undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention
    in the United States, as well as for the prevention of early
    myocardial infarction in patients with acute coronary syndrome
    in most countries.

Diabetes and Obesity:   Januvia  and  Janumet
     for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

Diversified Brands:   Cozaar ;  Hyzaar ;
     Zocor; Propecia  (finasteride), a product for the
    treatment of male pattern hair loss;  Claritin Rx; Vasotec
     (enalapril maleate) and  Vaseretic  (enalapril
    maleate-hydrochlorothiazide) ,  hypertension
     and/or  heart
    failure products ; Proscar  (finasteride), a urology
    product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate
    enlargement ;  and  Remeron  (mirtazapine), an
    antidepressant.

Infectious Disease:   Isentress ;
     PegIntron ;  Primaxin  (imipenem and cilastatin
    sodium) ; Cancidas  (caspofungin acetate), an anti-fungal
    product;  Invanz  (ertapenem sodium) for the treatment of
    certain infections;  Avelox  (moxifloxacin), which the
    Company only markets in the United States, a broad-spectrum
    fluoroquinolone antibiotic for certain respiratory and skin
    infections;  Rebetol  (ribavirin, USP) Capsules and Oral
    Solution for use in combination with  PegIntron  or
     Intron A  (interferon
     alpha-2b, 
    recombinant) for treating chronic hepatitis C; and
     Crixivan  (indinavir sulfate) and  Stocrin
     (efavirenz), antiretroviral therapies for the treatment of
    HIV infection.

Neurosciences and Ophthalmology:   Maxalt
     (rizatriptan benzoate) ,  a product for acute treatment
    of migraine; and  Cosopt  (dorzolamide hydrochloride and
    timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) and  Trusopt
     (dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution).

Oncology:   Temodar ;  Emend  (aprepitant)
    for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative
    nausea and vomiting; and  Intron A  for Injection, marketed
    for chronic hepatitis B and C and numerous anticancer
    indications worldwide, including as adjuvant therapy for
    malignant melanoma.

Vaccines:   ProQuad  (Measles, Mumps, Rubella and
    Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine
    to help prevent measles, mumps, rubella and varicella;  M-M-R
     II (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a
    vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps and rubella;
     Varivax  (Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help
    prevent chickenpox (varicella);  Gardasil; RotaTeq 
    (Rotavirus Vaccine, Live, Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help
    protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and
    children ; Pneumovax  (pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a
    vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease ;  and
     Zostavax  (Zoster Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent
    shingles (herpes zoster) in patients aged 60 or older.

Women s Health and Endocrine:   NuvaRing
     (etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring), a vaginal
    contraceptive ring ; Follistim AQ  (follitropin beta
    injection), a fertility treatment;  Implanon  (etonogestrel
    implant), a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant; and
     Cerazette , a progestin only oral contraceptive.

Animal
    Health  

The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and
    markets animal health products, including vaccines. Principal
    marketed products in this segment include:

Livestock Products:   Nuflor  antibiotic range
    for use in cattle and swine;  Bovilis / Vista  vaccine
    lines for infectious diseases in cattle;  Banamine  bovine
    and swine anti-inflammatory;  Estrumate  for treatment of
    fertility disorders in cattle;  Regumate / Matrix
     fertility management for swine and horses;  Resflor
     combination broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal
    anti-inflammatory drug for bovine respiratory disease;  Zilmax
     and  Revalor  to

7

improve production efficiencies in beef cattle;  M+Pac
     swine pneumonia vaccine; and  Porcilis  vaccine line
    for infectious diseases in swine.

Poultry Products:   Nobilis / Innovax,
     vaccine lines for poultry; and  Paracox  and
     Coccivac  coccidiosis vaccines.

Companion Animal
    Products:   Nobivac / Continuum  vaccine
    lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination;
     Otomax / Mometamax / Posatex  ear ointments for
    acute and chronic otitis;  Caninsulin / Vetsulin
     diabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats;
     Panacur / Safeguard  broad-spectrum anthelmintic
    (de-wormer) for use in many animals; and
     Scalibor / Exspot  for protecting against bites from
    fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies.

Aquaculture Products:   Slice  parasiticide for
    sea lice in salmon;  Aquavac / Norvax  vaccines
    against bacterial and viral disease in fish;  Compact PD
     vaccine for salmon; and  Aquaflor  antibiotic for
    farm-raised fish.

Consumer
    Care  

The Consumer Care segment develops, manufactures and markets
     over-the-counter, 
    foot care and sun care products. Principal products in this
    segment include:

Over-the-Counter 
    Products:   Claritin  non-drowsy antihistamines;
     MiraLAX  treatment for occasional constipation;
     Coricidin HBP  decongestant-free cold/flu medicine for
    people with high blood pressure;  Afrin  nasal decongestant
    spray; and  Zegerid OTC  treatment for frequent heartburn.

Foot Care:   Dr. Scholl s  foot care
    products;  Lotrimin  topical antifungal products; and
     Tinactin  topical antifungal products and foot and sneaker
    odor/wetness products.

Sun Care:   Coppertone  sun care lotions, sprays
    and dry oils; and  Solarcaine  sunburn relief products.

For a further discussion of sales of the Company s
    products, see Item 7.  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  below.

Product
    Approvals  

In June 2010, the FDA approved  Dulera  Inhalation Aerosol,
    a new fixed-dose combination asthma treatment for patients
    12 years of age and older.  Dulera  combines an
    inhaled corticosteroid with a long-acting
    beta 2 -agonist.

In September 2010, the intravenous formulation of  Brinavess
     was granted marketing approval in the EU, Iceland and Norway
    for the rapid conversion of recent onset atrial fibrillation to
    sinus rhythm in adults: for non-surgery patients with atrial
    fibrillation of seven days or less and for post-cardiac surgery
    patients with atrial fibrillation of three days or less.
     Brinavess  acts preferentially in the atria and is the
    first product in a new class of pharmacologic agents for
    cardioversion of atrial fibrillation to launch in the EU. In
    April 2009, Cardiome Pharma Corp. and Merck announced a
    collaboration and license agreement for the development and
    commercialization of vernakalant. The agreement provides Merck
    exclusive rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico
    to vernakalant intravenous formulation.

In August 2009, the FDA approved  Saphris  (asenapine) for
    the acute treatment of schizophrenia in adults and for the acute
    treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I
    disorder with or without psychotic features in adults. In
    September 2010, two sNDAs for  Saphris  were approved in
    the United States to expand the product s indications to
    the treatment of schizophrenia in adults, as monotherapy for the
    acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with
    bipolar I disorder in adults, and as adjunctive therapy with
    either lithium or valproate for the acute treatment of manic or
    mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults. In
    September 2010, asenapine, to be sold under the brand name
     Sycrest , received marketing approval in the EU for the
    treatment of moderate to severe manic episodes associated with
    bipolar I disorder in adults; the marketing approval did not
    include an indication for schizophrenia. The marketing approval
    applies to all EU member states. In October 2010, Merck and H.
    Lundbeck A/S ( Lundbeck ) announced a worldwide
    commercialization agreement for  Sycrest  sublingual
    tablets (5 mg, 10 mg). Under the terms of the
    agreement, Lundbeck paid a fee and will make product supply
    payments in exchange for exclusive commercial rights to
     Sycrest  in all markets outside the United States, China
    and Japan. Merck will retain exclusive commercial rights to
    asenapine in the United States, China and Japan. Concurrently,
    Merck is continuing to pursue regulatory approval for asenapine
    in other parts of the world.

8

Joint
    Ventures  

AstraZeneca
    LP  

In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB
    ( Astra ) to develop and market Astra products in the
    United States. In 1994, Old Merck and Astra formed an equally
    owned joint venture that developed and marketed most of
    Astra s new prescription medicines in the United States
    including Prilosec (omeprazole), the first in a class of
    medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the
    production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.

In 1998, Old Merck and Astra restructured the joint venture
    whereby Old Merck acquired Astra s interest in the joint
    venture, renamed KBI Inc. ( KBI ), and contributed
    KBI s operating assets to a new U.S. limited
    partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the
     Partnership ), in exchange for a 1% limited partner
    interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned
    subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for
    a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed
    AstraZeneca LP ( AZLP ) upon Astra s 1999 merger
    with Zeneca Group Plc (the  AstraZeneca merger ),
    became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI
    retained rights.

The Company earns certain Partnership returns as well as ongoing
    revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products. The
    Partnership returns include a priority return provided for in
    the Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon
    sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a
    preferential return representing the Company s share of
    undistributed Partnership AZLP generally accepted accounting
    principles ( GAAP ) earnings. The AstraZeneca merger
    triggered a partial redemption in March 2008 of Old Merck s
    interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this redemption,
    Old Merck received $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was
    based primarily on a multiple of Old Merck s average annual
    variable returns derived from sales of the former Astra USA,
    Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the
     Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value ). Old Merck
    recorded a $1.5 billion pretax gain on the partial
    redemption in 2008. The partial redemption of Old Merck s
    interest in the product rights did not result in a change in Old
    Merck s 1% limited partnership interest. As described in
    Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  below, after
    certain adjustments, Old Merck recorded an aggregate pretax gain
    of $2.2 billion in 2008.

In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring discussed above,
    Astra purchased an option (the  Asset Option ) for a
    payment of $443 million, which was recorded as deferred
    income, to buy Old Merck s interest in the KBI products,
    excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec
    (the  Non-PPI Products ). In April 2010, AstraZeneca
    exercised the Asset Option. Merck received $647 million
    from AstraZeneca representing the net present value as of
    March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be
    received by Old Merck from the Non-PPI Products (the
     Appraised Value ), which was recorded as a reduction
    to the Company s investment in AZLP. The Company recognized
    the $443 million of deferred income in 2010 as a component of
     Other (income) expense, net . In addition, in 1998, Old
    Merck granted Astra an option (the
     Shares Option ) to buy Old Merck s common
    stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old Merck s interest
    in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012. The exercise price
    for the Shares Option will be based on the net present
    value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as
    determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain
     true-up 
    mechanisms. The Company believes that it is likely that
    AstraZeneca will exercise the Shares Option.

Sanofi
    Pasteur MSD  

In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur M rieux Connaught (now
    Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human
    vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of
    combination vaccines for distribution in the then existing EU
    and the European Free Trade Association. Old Merck and Sanofi
    Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine
    businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as
    Pasteur M rieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD,
    S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or
    through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany,
    Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the
    Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and through
    distributors in the rest of its territory.

Johnson  
    Johnson o Merck

    Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company  

In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with
    Johnson   Johnson to develop and market a broad range
    of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50%
    owned joint venture also includes Canada. Significant

9

joint venture products are  Pepcid AC  (famotidine), an
     over-the-counter 
    form of Old Merck s ulcer medication  Pepcid
     (famotidine), as well as  Pepcid Complete,  an
     over-the-counter 
    product that combines the Company s ulcer medication with
    antacids (calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide).

Licenses  

In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough entered into a
    licensing agreement with Centocor, a Johnson   Johnson
    company, to market  Remicade,  which is prescribed for the
    treatment of inflammatory diseases. In 2005,
    Schering-Plough s subsidiary exercised an option under its
    contract with Centocor for license rights to develop and
    commercialize  Simponi , a fully human monoclonal antibody.
    The Company has exclusive marketing rights to both products
    outside the United States, Japan and certain other Asian
    markets. In December 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor revised
    their distribution agreement regarding the development,
    commercialization and distribution of both  Remicade  and
     Simponi , extending the Company s rights to
    exclusively market  Remicade  to match the duration of the
    Company s exclusive marketing rights for  Simponi . In
    addition, Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain
    development costs relating to  Simponi  s
    auto-injector delivery system. On October 6, 2009, the
    European Commission ( EC ) approved  Simponi  as
    a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system
    disorders in two presentations   a novel auto-injector
    and a prefilled syringe. As a result, the Company s
    marketing rights for both products extend for 15 years from
    the first commercial sale of  Simponi  within the EU
    following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval
    within the EU. After operating expenses and subject to certain
    adjustments, the Company was entitled to receive an approximate
    60% share of profits on the Company s distribution in the
    Company s marketing territory through December 31,
    2009. Beginning in 2010, the Company s share of profits
    change over time to a 50% share of profits by 2014 for both
    products and the share of profits will remain fixed thereafter
    for the remainder of the term. The Company may independently
    develop and market  Simponi  for a Crohn s disease
    indication in its territories, with an option for Centocor to
    participate. Centocor has instituted an arbitration proceeding
    to terminate this agreement and the Company s rights to
    distribute these products. See Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors  and Item 8.  Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data,  Note 12.  Contingencies and
    Environmental Liabilities  below.

Competition  

The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the
    pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly
    regulated. The Company s competitors include other
    worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller
    research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and
    generic drug and consumer health care manufacturers. The
    Company s operations may be affected by technological
    advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted
    to competitors, competitive combination products, new products
    of competitors, the generic availability of competitors 
    branded products, new information from clinical trials of
    marketed products or post-marketing surveillance and generic
    competition as the Company s products mature. In addition,
    patent positions are increasingly being challenged by
    competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse
    result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of
    products or negatively affect sales of existing products and
    could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with
    respect to certain products. Competitive pressures have
    intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect
    on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot
    be predicted.

Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for
    technological innovations and the ability to market these
    innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on
    research and development, the Company is well positioned to
    compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional
    resources to meet market challenges include quality control,
    flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient
    distribution system and a strong technical information service.
    The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products
    through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses,
    and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further
    address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction
    of new products and processes by competitors may result in price
    reductions and product displacements, even for products
    protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds
    available to treat a particular disease typically increases over
    time and can result in slowed sales growth for the
    Company s products in that therapeutic category.

10

Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to
    exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In 2010,
    this pressure was particularly intense in several European
    countries which implemented austerity measures aimed at reducing
    costs in areas such as health care. In the United States,
    federal and state governments for many years also have pursued
    methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they
    pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay
    specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to
    provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain
    Public Health Service entities and  disproportionate
    share  hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria).
    Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the
    U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
    ( CDC ) funds and purchases recommended pediatric
    vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of
    Medicaid-eligible, uninsured, Native American and certain
    underinsured children. Merck was awarded a CDC contract in 2010
    for the supply of pediatric vaccines for the Vaccines for
    Children program.

Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health
    care reform legislation in 2010. Various insurance market
    reforms began last year and will continue through full
    implementation in 2014. The new law is expected to expand access
    to health care to more than 32 million Americans by the end
    of the decade that did not previously have regular access to
    health care. With respect to the effect of the law on the
    pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid
    rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid
    managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities
    eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law
    also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% discount
    on Medicare Part D utilization by beneficiaries when they
    are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the
    so-called  donut hole ). Also, beginning in 2011,
    pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to pay an annual
    health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee, which
    will be $2.5 billion in 2011, will be assessed on each
    company in proportion to its share of sales to certain
    government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.

Although not included in the health care reform law, Congress
    has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to
    increase the government s role in pharmaceutical pricing in
    the Medicare program. These proposals may include removing the
    current legal prohibition against the Secretary of the Health
    and Human Services intervening in price negotiations between
    Medicare drug benefit program plans and pharmaceutical
    companies. They may also include mandating the payment of
    rebates for some or all of the pharmaceutical utilization in
    Medicare drug benefit plans. In addition, Congress may again
    consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the
    importation of medicines from other countries.

The full impact of U.S. health care reform, as well as
    continuing budget pressures on governments around the world,
    cannot be predicted at this time.

In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company makes a
    continuing effort to demonstrate that its medicines provide
    value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The
    Company works in markets with historically low rates of
    government spending on health care to encourage those
    governments to increase their investments and thereby improve
    their citizens  access to appropriate health care,
    including medicines.

In the animal health business, there is intense competition
    which is affected by several factors including regulatory and
    legislative issues, scientific and technological advances,
    product innovation, the quality and price of the Company s
    products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent
    introduction of generic products by competitors.

The Company s consumer care operations face competition
    from other consumer health care businesses as well as retailers
    who carry their own private label brands. The Company s
    competitive position is affected by several factors, including
    regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological
    advances, the quality and price of the Company s products,
    promotional efforts and the growth of lower cost private label
    brands.

Operating conditions have become more challenging under the
    global pressures of competition, industry regulation, and cost
    containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of
    these and other factors on the Company s business, the
    Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and
    improve the organization and its business practices to better
    meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to
    respond to the evolving health care environment and market
    forces.

11

Government
    Regulation  

The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by
    regional, country, state and local agencies around the world.
    Governmental regulation and legislation tends to focus on
    standards and processes for determining drug safety and
    effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement,
    especially related to the pricing of products.

Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which
    administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of
    prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA
    requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and
    resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to
    market in the United States. U.S. health care reform
    legislation which passed in 2010 with a full implementation date
    of 2014, significantly expands access to health care, but also
    contains a number of provisions imposing new obligations on the
    pharmaceutical industry, including, for example, an increase in
    the mandated rebate under the Medicaid program and a new
    discount requirement in the Medicare Part D program.

The EU has adopted Directives and other legislation concerning
    the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale
    distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products
    for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the
    EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional
    regulations by the EU member states. The Company s policies
    and procedures are already consistent with the substance of
    these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will
    not have any material effect on the Company s business.

In January 2008, the EC launched a sector inquiry in the
    pharmaceutical industry under the rules of EU competition law. A
    sector inquiry allows the EC to gather information about the
    general operation of market competition and is not an
    investigation into suspected anti-competitive behavior of
    specific firms. As part of this inquiry, Old Merck s
    offices in Germany were inspected by the authorities beginning
    in January 2008. The preliminary report of the EC was issued in
    November 2008, and following the public consultation period, the
    final report was issued in July 2009. The final report confirmed
    that there has been a decline in the number of novel medicines
    reaching the market and instances of delayed market entry of
    generic medicines and discussed industry practices that may have
    contributed to these phenomena. Among other things, the final
    report expressed concern over settlements of patent disputes
    between originator and generic companies and suggested that the
    EC should monitor any anti-competitive effects. While the EC has
    issued further inquiries with respect to the subject of the
    investigation, including to the Company, the EC has not alleged
    that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have engaged in any
    unlawful practices.

The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct
    its operations, including launching new drugs into the market,
    in this regulatory environment.

Access to
    Medicines  

As a global health care company, Merck s primary role is to
    discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The
    Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in
    helping to improve access to its products around the world. The
    Company s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging. For
    example, the Company has been recognized for pricing many of its
    products through a differential pricing framework, taking into
    consideration such factors as a country s level of economic
    development and public health need.

Building on the Company s own efforts, Merck has undertaken
    collaborations with many stakeholders to improve access to
    medicines and enhance the quality of life for people around the
    world.

For example, in 2010, through a partnership of Merck, the
    Government of Bhutan, and the Australian Cervical Cancer
    Foundation, Bhutan became the first low-income country in the
    world to successfully implement a national HPV vaccination
    program. Under this program, Merck is providing  Gardasil
     free of charge for the first year of the program and will
    provide  Gardasil  at the Company s access price for
    five more years.

Also in 2010, Merck worked with its partner, the Wellcome Trust,
    to further develop the Hillemann Laboratories which was
    established in September 2009. This initiative will focus on
    developing affordable vaccines to prevent diseases that commonly
    affect low-income countries.

12

Merck has also in the past provided funds to The Merck Company
    Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered
    with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global
    health. One of these partnerships is The African Comprehensive
    HIV/AIDS Partnership in Botswana, a collaboration with the
    government of Botswana and the Bill   Melinda Gates
    Foundation, that was renewed in 2010, and supports
    Botswana s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and
    sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and
    support.

Privacy
    and Data Protection  

The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data
    protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and
    regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues
    to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy
    and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly
    the Company s business, including recently enacted laws and
    regulations in the United States and internationally requiring
    notification to individuals and government authorities of
    security breaches involving certain categories of personal
    information.

Distribution  

The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products
    primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals,
    government agencies and managed health care providers such as
    health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and
    other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to
    physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government
    entities. The Company s professional representatives
    communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the
    Company s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health
    care professionals in private practice, group practices,
    hospitals and managed care organizations. The Company sells its
    animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal
    producers. The Company s
     over-the-counter, 
    foot care and sun care products are sold through wholesale and
    retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets in the
    United States and Canada.

Raw
    Materials  

Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from
    multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally
    available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the
    Company s business.

Patents,
    Trademarks and Licenses  

Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of
    material importance in the Company s marketing of human
    health products in the United States and in most major foreign
    markets. Patents may cover products  per se ,
    pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates
    useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products.
    Protection for individual products extends for varying periods
    in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various
    countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from
    country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its
    scope of coverage.

The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (the
     FDA Modernization Act ) includes a Pediatric
    Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six months
    of market exclusivity in the United States for indications of
    new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric
    studies are completed by the applicant. These exclusivity
    provisions were re-authorized by the Prescription Drug User Fee
    Act passed in September 2007. Current U.S. patent law
    provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration
    for periods when the patented product was under regulatory
    review before the FDA.

13

Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the
    Company normally provide market exclusivity. The Company has the
    following key U.S. patent protection (including Patent Term
    Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity) for major marketed
    products:

(1)   

Compound patent unless otherwise noted. 

(2)   

The Company has determined that it will not enforce an
    additional patent that was set to expire in 2014. 

(3)   

By agreement, Dr. Reddy s Laboratories, Inc. may
    launch a generic in the U.S. on January 1, 2013. 

(4)   

By settlement, Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. may launch a
    generic in the U.S. as early as February 2014. Six months
    Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date to August
    2014. 

(5)   

By agreement, Barr Laboratories, Inc. may launch a generic in
    the U.S. on August 11, 2013. 

(6)   

By agreement, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, Inc. may launch a
    generic in the U.S. on December 12, 2016. 

(7)   

By virtue of litigation settlement, generic manufacturers
    have been given the right to enter the U.S. market as of
    2012. 

While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a
    loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical
    product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from:
    (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates
    related to the most economical method of manufacture of the
    active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to
    the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel
    compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United
    States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may
    be available under relevant law. The effect of product patent
    expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many
    other factors such as the nature of the market and the position
    of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities
    and economics of the process for manufacture of the active
    ingredient of the product and the

14

requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug
    and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other
    countries.

The patents that provided U.S. market exclusivity for
     Cozaar  and  Hyzaar  expired in April 2010. In
    addition,  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar  lost patent protection
    in a number of major European markets in March 2010.
    Accordingly, the Company is experiencing a significant decline
    in  Cozaar/Hyzaar  worldwide sales and the Company expects
    such decline to continue. In addition, the patent that provides
    U.S. market exclusivity for  Singulair , the
    Company s largest selling product, expires in August 2012.
    The Company expects that within the two years following patent
    expiration, it will lose substantially all U.S. sales of
     Singulair , with most of those declines coming in the
    first full year following patent expiration. Also, the patent
    for  Singulair  will expire in a number of major European
    markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales of
     Singulair  in those markets will decline significantly
    thereafter (although the six month Pediatric Market Exclusivity
    may extend this date in some markets to February 2013). The
    compound patent that provides market exclusivity for  Maxalt
     in the United States expires in June 2012 (although the six
    month Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date to
    December 2012). In addition, the patent for  Maxalt  will
    expire in a number of major European markets in 2013. The
    Company anticipates that sales in the United States and in these
    European markets will decline significantly after these patent
    expiries.

Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States
    and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws
    increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in
    patent life have been partially offset by a general increase in
    the number of incentives for and use of generic products.
    Additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are
    sought in the United States and other countries through reform
    of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of
    international treaties.

For further information with respect to the Company s
    patents, see Item 1A.  Risk Factors  and
    Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,
    Note 12.  Contingencies and Environmental
    Liabilities  below.

Worldwide, all of the Company s important products are sold
    under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of
    material importance. Trademark protection continues in some
    countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as
    registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed
    indefinitely.

Royalty income in 2010 on patent and know-how licenses and other
    rights amounted to $347 million. Merck also incurred
    royalty expenses amounting to $1.38 billion in 2010 under
    patent and know-how licenses it holds.

Research
    and Development  

The Company s business is characterized by the introduction
    of new products or new uses for existing products through a
    strong research and development program. Approximately
    15,500 people are employed in the Company s research
    activities. Research and development expenses were
    $11.0 billion in 2010, $5.8 billion in 2009 and
    $4.8 billion in 2008 (which included restructuring costs in
    all years, as well as $2.4 billion of IPR D impairment
    charges in 2010). The Company maintains its ongoing commitment
    to research over a broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical
    development in support of new products.

The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and
    fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well
    as research programs directed toward product development. The
    Company s research and development model is designed to
    increase productivity and improve the probability of success by
    prioritizing the Company s research and development
    resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific
    opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its
    research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to
    discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately
    on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major
    impact on human health, on developing
     best-in-class 
    approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines
    and vaccines through new indications and new formulations.
    Another important component of the Company s science-based
    diversification is based on expanding the Company s
    portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and
    vaccines, but also biologics (peptides, small proteins,
    antibodies) and RNAi. Further, Merck has moved to diversify its
    portfolio through its Merck BioVentures division which has the
    potential to harness the market opportunity presented by
    biological medicine patent expiries

15

by delivering high quality follow-on biologic products to
    enhance access for patients worldwide. The Company will continue
    to pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities.

The integration efforts for research and development continue to
    focus on integrating the research operations of the legacy
    companies, including providing an effective transition for
    employees, realizing projected merger synergies in the form of
    cost savings and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining
    momentum in the Company s late-stage pipeline. Overall, the
    Company s global operating model will align franchise and
    function as well as align resources with disease area priorities
    and balance capacity across discovery phases and allow the
    Company to act upon those programs with the highest probability
    of success. Additionally, across all disease area priorities,
    the Company s strategy is designed to expand access to
    worldwide external science and incorporate external research as
    a key component of the Company s early discovery pipeline
    in order to translate basic research productivity into
    late-stage clinical success.

The Company s clinical pipeline includes candidates in
    multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer,
    cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases,
    inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, migraine,
    neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis,
    psychiatric diseases, respiratory diseases and women s
    health. The Company supplements its internal research with an
    aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on
    the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to
    late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies.

In the development of human health products, industry practice
    and government regulations in the United States and most foreign
    countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and
    safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and
    controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine may
    be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical
    and clinical experience are included in the NDA for a drug or
    the Biologics License Application ( BLA ) for a
    vaccine or biologic submitted to the FDA for the required
    approval.

Once the Company s scientists discover a new small molecule
    compound or biologics molecule that they believe has promise to
    treat a medical condition, the Company commences preclinical
    testing with that compound. Preclinical testing includes
    laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on
    chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. Pending
    acceptable preclinical data, the Company will initiate clinical
    testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements.
    The clinical testing begins with Phase I studies, which are
    designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and
    preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans.
    If favorable, additional, larger Phase II studies are
    initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the
    affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound,
    as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the
    compound s usefulness. If data from the Phase II
    trials are satisfactory, the Company commences large-scale
    Phase III trials to confirm the compound s efficacy
    and safety. Upon completion of those trials, if satisfactory,
    the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate
    regulatory agencies around the world to have the product
    candidate approved for marketing. There can be no assurance that
    a compound that is the result of any particular program will
    obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed.

Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for
    drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine s safety
    and ability to elicit a protective immune response
    (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are
    typically done in three phases. Initial Phase I clinical studies
    are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety,
    tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate.
    Phase II studies are dose-ranging studies. Finally,
    Phase III trials provide the necessary data on
    effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits
    regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies.
    Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility
    undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of
    the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail.

In the United States, the FDA review process begins once a
    complete NDA is submitted and received by the FDA. Pursuant to
    the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA review period
    targets for NDAs or supplemental NDAs is either six months, for
    priority review, or ten months, for a standard review. Within
    60 days after receipt of an NDA, the FDA determines if the
    application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive
    review. The FDA also assesses, at that time, whether the
    application will be granted a priority review or standard
    review. Once the review timelines are defined, the FDA will
    generally act upon the application within those timelines,
    unless a major

16

amendment has been submitted (either at the Company s own
    initiative or the FDA s request) to the pending
    application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the review
    period to allow for review of the new information, but by no
    more than 180 days. Extensions to the review period are
    communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an application
    by issuing an approval letter or a complete response letter.

Research
    and Development Update  

The Company currently has a number of candidates under
    regulatory review in the United States and internationally.

Boceprevir is an investigational oral hepatitis C virus
    protease inhibitor currently under development. Full data
    results for two pivotal late-stage studies for boceprevir were
    presented in November 2010 at the annual meeting of the American
    Association for the Study of Liver Disease which showed that
    boceprevir demonstrated significantly higher sustained virologic
    response rates in adult patients who previously failed treatment
    and in adult patients who were new to treatment for chronic
    hepatitis C virus genotype 1 compared to control, the
    primary objective of the studies. Based on these data,
    regulatory applications for boceprevir were submitted in 2010
    and have been accepted for expedited review in both the United
    States and the EU.

MK-0431A XR, the Company s investigational extended-release
    formulation of  Janumet , was accepted for standard review
    by the FDA in 2010. The Company is also moving forward as
    planned with regulatory filings in countries outside the United
    States. The extended-release formulation of  Janumet  is an
    investigational treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines
    sitagliptin, which is the active component of  Januvia ,
    with metformin extended release, a commonly-prescribed
    medication for type 2 diabetes, into a single tablet. This
    formulation is designed to provide a new treatment option for
    health care providers and patients who need two or more oral
    agents to help control their blood sugar with the convenience of
    once daily dosing.

SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a
    selective progestin with 17-beta estradiol, an estrogen that is
    identical to the one naturally present in a women s body.
    The drug is currently under review in the EU. It is also in
    Phase III development for the U.S. market.

MK-3009, Cubicin daptomycin for injection, is currently under
    review in Japan. As previously disclosed, in 2007, Cubist
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Cubist ) entered into a
    license agreement with Old Merck for the development and
    commercialization of Cubicin, for the treatment of staph
    infection, in Japan where the Company has the commercial rights
    to the drug candidate. Merck will develop and commercialize
    Cubicin through its wholly-owned subsidiary in Japan. Cubist
    commercializes Cubicin in the United States.

MK-0431D is a combination of  Januvia  and  Zocor  for
    the treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia which was accepted
    for standard review by the FDA in 2011.

In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the
    Company has 19 drug candidates in Phase III development.

Vorapaxar is a thrombin receptor antagonist or antiplatelet
    protease activated receptor-1 inhibitor being studied for the
    prevention and treatment of thrombosis. Merck was studying
    vorapaxar in two major clinical endpoint trials to evaluate the
    investigational medicine for the prevention of cardiac events:
    TRACER, a study in patients with acute coronary syndrome which
    has ended, and TRA-2P (also known as TIMI 50), a study in
    patients with prior heart attack, stroke and peripheral artery
    disease which is continuing in large part. Both studies were
    designed as event-driven trials in which patients were planned
    to be followed for a minimum of one year, and both had completed
    enrollment. In January 2011, Merck announced that the combined
    Data and Safety Monitoring Board ( DSMB ) for the two
    studies had reviewed the available safety and efficacy data, and
    made recommendations for study changes to the chairpersons of
    the steering committees for the two studies. The study
    chairpersons agreed to implement these changes, and as a result:
    in the TRACER study, patients were to discontinue study drug and
    investigators were to begin to close out the study in a timely
    and orderly fashion. In the TRA-2P study, study drug was
    continued in patients who had experienced a previous heart
    attack or peripheral arterial disease (approximately 75% of the
    patients enrolled in the study), and was immediately
    discontinued in patients who experienced a stroke prior to entry
    into the study or during the course of the study. Merck
    subsequently announced that the chairman of the TRA-2P study
    reported to investigators that the DSMB had communicated that
    based on all

17

of the data (safety and efficacy) available to them from both
    trials, they recommended that subjects with a history of stroke
    not receive vorapaxar. The DSMB had observed an increase in
    intracranial hemorrhage in patients with a history of stroke
    that is not outweighed by their considerations of potential
    benefit.

Merck plans to update its projections for regulatory filings for
    vorapaxar once the Company has received the efficacy and safety
    data from TRACER and can determine an updated completion date
    for TRA-2P. TRACER has accumulated the pre-defined number of
    primary and major secondary endpoints, although not all patients
    will continue to receive study drug through the pre-specified
    one-year follow up. Merck continues to expect that the efficacy
    and safety data from TRACER will become available later in 2011
    and will be submitted for presentation at appropriate medical
    meetings.

As a result of these developments, the Company concluded there
    was a 2010 impairment triggering event related to the vorapaxar
    intangible asset. Although there is a great deal of information
    related to these developments that remains unknown to the
    Company, utilizing market participant assumptions and
    considering several different scenarios, the Company concluded
    that its best estimate of the current fair value of the
    intangible asset related to vorapaxar was $350 million,
    which resulted in the recognition of an impairment charge of
    $1.7 billion during 2010. The Company will continue to
    monitor the remaining asset value for further impairment.

MK-8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mTOR (mammalian target of
    rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of
    cancer. Merck is currently developing ridaforolimus in multiple
    cancer indications under an exclusive license and collaboration
    agreement with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( ARIAD ).
    In January 2011, ARIAD announced top-line data showing that
    ridaforolimus met the primary endpoint of improved
    progression-free survival compared to placebo in the
    Phase III SUCCEED trial conducted in patients with
    metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcomas who previously had a
    favorable response to chemotherapy. Complete findings from the
    SUCCEED trial will be submitted for presentation at an upcoming
    medical meeting in 2011. This trial remains active, and study
    participants continue to be followed to gather additional data
    on secondary endpoints, including overall survival and the
    safety profile of ridaforolimus. Merck currently plans to file
    an NDA with the FDA for oral ridaforolimus in 2011, subject to
    final collection and analysis of all available data from the
    trial.

MK-2452,  Saflutan  (tafluprost), is a preservative free,
    synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin F2  for the
    reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate
    patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular
    hypertension. In April 2009, Old Merck and Santen Pharmaceutical
    Co., Ltd. announced a worldwide licensing agreement for
    tafluprost. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA
    with the FDA for  Saflutan  in 2011.

As previously disclosed, Old Merck submitted for filing an NDA
    with the FDA for MK-0653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin,
    which is an investigational medication for the treatment of
    dyslipidemia, and the FDA refused to file the application in
    2009. The FDA has identified additional manufacturing and
    stability data that are needed; the Company anticipates filing
    an NDA in 2011.

As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced it was
    delaying the filing of the U.S. application for MK-0974,
    telcagepant, the Company s investigational calcitonin
    gene-related peptide ( CGRP )-receptor antagonist for
    the acute treatment of migraine. The decision was based on
    findings from a Phase IIa exploratory study in which a small
    number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for three
    months for the prevention of migraine were found to have marked
    elevations in liver transaminases. The daily dosing regimen in
    the prevention study was different than the dosing regimen used
    in Phase III studies in which telcagepant was
    intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat
    individual migraine attacks as they occurred. Following meetings
    with regulatory agencies at the end of 2009, Merck is conducting
    an additional safety study as part of the overall Phase III
    program for telcagepant. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA with the FDA in 2011.

SCH 900616,  Bridion  (sugammadex), is a medication
    designed to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle
    relaxants used as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients
    remain immobile during surgical procedures.  Bridion  has
    received regulatory approval in the EU, Australia, New Zealand,
    Japan and a number of other markets. Prior to the Merger,
    Schering-Plough received a complete response letter from the FDA
    for  Bridion.  Following

18

further communication from the FDA, the Company is assessing the
    agency s feedback in order to determine a new timetable for
    response.

SCH 697243 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy
    sublingual tablet ( AIT ) for grass pollen allergy for
    which the Company has North American rights. In March 2010, data
    from a Phase III study in children and adolescents
     (ages 5-17 years) 
    with grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis were presented at
    the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma   Immunology
    Annual Meeting. Allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, or runny nose and
    itchy, watery eyes due to allergies, is a common condition in
    children and adolescents. AIT is a dissolvable oral tablet that
    is designed to prevent allergy symptoms by inducing a protective
    immune response against allergies, thereby treating the
    underlying cause of the disease. Merck is investigating AIT for
    the treatment of grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in
    both children and adults. The anticipated U.S. filing date
    for SCH 697243 is under assessment.

SCH 039641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in
    Phase III development for the North American market. The
    anticipated filing date for SCH 039641 is under assessment.

SCH 418131,  Zenhale , is a fixed dose combination of two
    previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma:
    mometasone furoate and formoterol fumarate dehydrate. In
    November 2010, the Company advised the European Medicines Agency
    ( EMA ) that it was withdrawing the application for
    marketing authorization for  Zenhale , which has been
    approved for use in asthma patients 12 years of age and
    older in the United States as  Dulera  Inhalation Aerosol.
    The Company decided to withdraw the application for
     Zenhale  to address questions outstanding between the
    Company and the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use
    of the EMA. The Company expects to resubmit the application in
    the future.

MK-0431C, a candidate currently in Phase III clinical
    development, combines  Januvia  with pioglitazone, another
    type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company expects it will file an NDA
    for MK-0431C with the FDA in 2012.

MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational
    treatment for osteoporosis in post-menopausal women.
    Osteoporosis is a disease which reduces bone density and
    strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures.
    Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits
    the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central
    role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break
    down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components
    of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the
    treatment of osteoporosis. Four-year data on odanacatib were
    presented in October 2010 at the American Society for Bone and
    Mineral Research annual meeting. Clinical and preclinical
    studies continue to provide data on the potential of odanacatib
    to increase bone density, cortical thickness and bone strength
    when treating osteoporosis. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA with the FDA in 2012.

V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to expand
    protection against cancer-causing HPV types. The Phase III
    clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a BLA
    with the FDA in 2012.

MK-0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended-release
    niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor, laropiprant. MK-0524A has
    demonstrated the ability to lower LDL-cholesterol
    ( LDL-C  or  bad  cholesterol), raise
    HDL-cholesterol ( HDL-C  or  good 
    cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less
    flushing than traditional extended release niacin alone. High
    LDL-C, low HDL-C and elevated triglycerides are risk factors
    associated with heart attacks and strokes. In April 2008, Old
    Merck received a non-approvable action letter from the FDA in
    response to its NDA for MK-0524A. At a meeting to discuss the
    letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy and safety data
    were required and suggested that Old Merck wait for the results
    of the Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular
    Events ( HPS2-THRIVE ) cardiovascular outcomes study,
    which is expected to be completed in 2012. The Company
    anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK-0524A in 2012.
    MK-0524A has been approved in more than 55 countries outside the
    United States for the treatment of dyslipidemia, particularly in
    patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by
    elevated levels of LDL-C and triglycerides and low HDL-C) and in
    patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous
    familial and non-familial) and is marketed as  Tredaptive
     (or as  Cordaptive  in certain countries).
     Tredaptive  should be used in patients in combination with
    statins, when the cholesterol lowering effects of statin
    monotherapy is inadequate.  Tredaptive  can be used as
    monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are considered
    inappropriate or not tolerated.

19

MK-0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to
    raising HDL-C and lowering triglycerides from extended-release
    niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of
    simvastatin in one combination product. Merck will not seek
    approval for MK-0524B in the United States until it files its
    complete response relating to MK-0524A.

MK-4305 is an investigational dual orexin receptor antagonist, a
    potential new approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia,
    currently in Phase III development. In June 2010, clinical
    results from a Phase IIb study were presented at the Annual
    Meeting of the Associated Professional Sleep Societies which
    showed MK-4305 was significantly more effective than placebo in
    improving overall sleep efficiency at night one and at the end
    of week four in patients with primary insomnia. MK-4305 was
    generally well-tolerated in the study. Orexins are neuropeptides
    (chemical messengers) that are released by specialized neurons
    in the hypothalamus region of the brain and are believed to be
    an important regulator of the brain s sleep-wake process.
    Phase III trials studying the efficacy and safety of
    MK-4305 in elderly and non-elderly insomnia patients are
    ongoing. Merck anticipates filing regulatory applications for
    MK-4305 in 2012.

SCH 900962,  Elonva , corifollitropin alpha injection,
    which has been approved in the EU for controlled ovarian
    stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the
    development of multiple follicles in women participating in an
    assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in
    Phase III development in the United States. The
    Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in
    2012.

SCH 420814, preladenant, is a selective adenosine 2a receptor
    antagonist in Phase III development for treatment of
    Parkinson s disease. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2012.

V212 is an inactivated varicella-zoster virus vaccine in
    Phase III development for prevention of herpes zoster. The
    Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2012.

MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the
    cholesteryl ester transfer protein ( CETP ) that is
    being investigated in lipid management to raise HDL-C and reduce
    LDL-C. In November 2010, researchers presented results from the
    Phase III DEFINE (Determining the EFficacy and Tolerability
    of CETP INhibition with AnacEtrapib) study with anacetrapib at
    the American Heart Association Scientific Sessions. In the trial
    of 1,623 patients with coronary heart disease
    ( CHD ) or CHD risk equivalents, anacetrapib showed no
    significant differences from placebo in the primary safety
    measures studied. There were no significant differences in mean
    changes in blood pressure between the anacetrapib and placebo
    treatment groups, nor were there any significant differences in
    serum electrolytes or aldosterone levels. During the 76-week
    treatment phase, the pre-specified adjudicated cardiovascular
    endpoint (defined as cardiovascular death, myocardial
    infarction, unstable angina or stroke) occurred in 16
    anacetrapib-treated patients (2.0%) compared with 21
    placebo-treated patients (2.6%). At 24 weeks, anacetrapib
    decreased LDL-C by 40% and increased HDL-C by 138% in patients
    already treated with a statin and at guideline-recommended LDL-C
    goal. Based on these results, the Company intends to move
    forward and study anacetrapib in a large cardiovascular clinical
    outcomes trial. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the
    FDA beyond 2015.

20

The chart below reflects the Company s current research
    pipeline as of February 16, 2011. Candidates shown in
    Phase III include specific products. Candidates shown in
    Phase II include the most advanced compound with a specific
    mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they
    are each currently intended for commercialization in a given
    therapeutic area. Small molecules and biologics are given
    MK-number or
     SCH-number 
    designations and vaccine candidates are given V-number
    designations. Candidates in Phase I, additional indications
    in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line
    extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown.

Phase II  

Allergy  

SCH 900237,
    Immunotherapy  (1)  

Cancer  

MK-0646 (dalotuzumab)

SCH 727965 (dinaciclib)

Clostridium difficile
       Infection  

MK-3415A

Contraception, Medicated
    IUS  

SCH 900342

COPD  

SCH 527123 (navarixin)

Diabetes Mellitus  

MK-3102

Hepatitis C  

MK-7009 (vaniprevir)

Insomnia  

MK-3697

MK-6096

Osteoporosis  

MK-5442

Pediatric Vaccine  

V419

Pneumoconjugate
    Vaccine  

V114

Progeria  

SCH 066336 (lonafarnib)

Psoriasis  

SCH 900222

Staph Infection  

V710

Thrombosis  

MK-4448 (betrixaban)

Phase III  

Allergy  

SCH 697243, Grass
    pollen  (1)  

SCH 039641,
    Ragweed  (1)  

Asthma  

SCH 418131 ( Zenhale ) (EU)

Atherosclerosis  

MK-0524A (extended-release niacin/

laropiprant) (U.S.)

MK-0524B (extended-release niacin/

laropiprant/simvastatin)

MK-0859 (anacetrapib)

Cervical Cancer  

V503 (HPV vaccine (9 valent))

Contraception  

SCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (U.S.)

Diabetes  

MK-0431C (sitagliptin/pioglitazone)

Fertility  

SCH 900962 (corifollitropin alfa

injection) (U.S.)

Glaucoma  

MK-2452 ( Saflutan ) (U.S.)

Insomnia  

MK-4305 (suvorexant)

Migraine  

MK-0974 (telcagepant)

Neuromuscular Blockade
    Reversal  

SCH 900616 ( Bridion ) (U.S.)

Osteoporosis  

MK-0822 (odanacatib)

Parkinson s
    Disease  

SCH 420814 (preladenant)

Sarcoma  

MK-8669 (ridaforolimus)

Thrombosis  

SCH 530348 (vorapaxar)

Herpes Zoster  

V212 (inactivated VZV vaccine)

Combination Products in
    Development  

Atherosclerosis  

MK-0653C (ezetimibe/atorvastatin)

Under Review  

Contraception  

SCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (EU)

Staph Infection  

MK-3009 (daptomycin for
    injection)  (2)  

Diabetes  

MK-0431A XR (sitagliptin/ 
    extended-release metformin) (U.S.)

MK-0431D (sitagliptin/simvastatin)

Hepatitis C  

SCH 503034 (boceprevir)

Footnotes:  

(1)      
 
           North American rights only.

(2)      
 
          Japanese rights only.

Employees  

As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately
    94,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 37,600
    employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico.
    Approximately 30% of worldwide employees of the Company are
    represented by various collective bargaining groups.

In February 2010, the Company commenced actions under a global
    restructuring program (the  Merger Restructuring
    Program ) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy
    Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger
    Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure
    of the combined company. Additional actions under the program
    continued during 2010. As part of the restructuring actions
    taken thus far

21

under the Merger Restructuring Program, which the Company
    anticipates will be substantially completed by the end of 2012
    (with the exception of certain manufacturing facilities
    actions), the Company expects to reduce its total workforce
    measured at the time of the Merger by approximately 17% across
    the Company worldwide. In addition, the Company has eliminated
    over 2,500 positions which were vacant at the time of the
    Merger. These workforce reductions will primarily come from the
    elimination of duplicative positions in sales, administrative
    and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or
    closure of certain manufacturing and research and development
    sites and the consolidation of office facilities. Since
    inception of the program through December 31, 2010, the
    Company has eliminated 11,550 positions under this program.
    These position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount
    reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant
    positions.

In October 2008, Old Merck announced a global restructuring
    program (the  2008 Restructuring Program ) to reduce
    its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance
    competitiveness. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the
    Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions
      6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies  
    across the Company worldwide by the end of 2011. About 40% of
    these reductions will occur in the United States. Since
    inception of the program through December 31, 2010, the
    Company has eliminated 5,800 positions, including vacancies,
    under this program.

Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough commenced a Productivity
    Transformation Program, which was designed to reduce and avoid
    costs and increase productivity. The position eliminations
    associated with this program are largely complete.

Environmental
    Matters  

The Company believes that there are no compliance issues
    associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations
    that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The
    Company is also remediating environmental contamination
    resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites.
    Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were
    $16 million in 2010, $17 million in 2009 and
    $35 million in 2008, and are estimated at $81 million
    for the years 2011 through 2015. These amounts do not consider
    potential recoveries from other parties. The Company has taken
    an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and,
    in management s opinion, the liabilities for all
    environmental matters, which are probable and reasonably
    estimable, have been accrued and totaled $185 million at
    December 31, 2010. Although it is not possible to predict
    with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or
    the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe
    that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred
    in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed
    $150 million in the aggregate. Management also does not
    believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse
    effect on the Company s financial position, results of
    operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year.

Merck believes that climate change could present risks to its
    business. Some of the potential impacts of climate change to its
    business include increased operating costs due to additional
    regulatory requirements, physical risks to the Company s
    facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply
    chain. These potential risks are integrated into the
    Company s business planning including investment in
    reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. The
    Company does not believe these risks are material to its
    business at this time.

Geographic
    Area Information  

The Company s operations outside the United States are
    conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by
    subsidiaries outside the United States were 56% of sales in
    2010, 47% of sales in 2009 and 44% of sales in 2008. The
    increase in proportion of sales outside the United States in
    2010 is primarily due to the inclusion of results of
    Schering-Plough following the close of the Merger.

The Company s worldwide business is subject to risks of
    currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other
    governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard
    these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its
    operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its
    methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to
    changing economic and political conditions.

22

As a result of the Merger, Merck has expanded its operations in
    countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa,
    Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing
    areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important
    opportunities for growth over time.

Financial information about geographic areas of the
    Company s business is discussed in Item 8.
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  below.

Available
    Information  

The Company s Internet website address is
      www.merck.com .  The Company will make available,
    free of charge at the  Investors  portion of its
    website, its Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
    to Section 13(a) or
     15(d)  of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as
    reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically
    filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission ( SEC ).

The Company s corporate governance guidelines and the
    charters of the Board of Directors  six standing committees
    are available on the Company s website at
      www.merck.com/about/leadership   and all such
    information is available in print to any stockholder who
    requests it from the Company.

Item 1A.    

Risk
    Factors.  

Investors should carefully consider all of the information set
    forth in this
     Form 10-K, 
    including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest
    in any of the Company s securities. The risks below are not
    the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks not currently
    known to the Company or that the Company presently deems
    immaterial may also impair its business operations. The
    Company s business, financial condition, results of
    operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected
    by any of these risks. This
     Form 10-K 
    also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and
    uncertainties. The Company s results could materially
    differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking
    statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks
    it faces described below and elsewhere. See  Cautionary
    Factors that May Affect Future Results  below.

Certain of the Company s major products are going to
    lose patent protection in the near future and, when that occurs,
    the Company expects a significant decline in sales of those
    products. 

The Company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive
    marketing rights for its products for some period of time. As
    product patents for several of the Company s products have
    recently expired in the United States and in other countries,
    the Company faces strong competition from lower priced generic
    drugs. Loss of patent protection for one of the Company s
    products typically leads to a rapid loss of sales for that
    product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become
    available. In the case of products that contribute significantly
    to the Company s sales, the loss of patent protection can
    have a material adverse effect on the Company s business,
    cash flow, results of operations, financial position and
    prospects. The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity
    for  Singulair,  which is the Company s largest
    selling product and had U.S. sales of approximately
    $3.2 billion in 2010, expires in August 2012. The Company
    expects that within the two years following patent expiration,
    it will lose substantially all U.S. sales of
     Singulair , with most of those declines coming in the
    first full year following patent expiration. Also, the patent
    for  Singulair  will expire in a number of major European
    markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales of
     Singulair  in those markets will decline significantly
    thereafter (although the six month Pediatric Market Exclusivity
    may extend this date in some markets to February 2013). In
    addition, the patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity
    for  Maxalt  will expire in June 2012 (although the
    six month Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date
    to December 2012). The Company expects a significant decline in
    U.S. sales thereafter. In addition, as previously
    disclosed, in 2012, AstraZeneca has the right to exercise its
    options to acquire the Company s interest in Nexium and
    Prilosec and the Company believes that it is likely that
    AstraZeneca will exercise its right.

A chart listing the U.S. patent protection for the
    Company s major marketed products is set forth above in
    Item 1.  Business   Patents, Trademarks and
    Licenses. 

23

The Company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its
    patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business
    would be adversely affected. 

Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of
    material importance in the Company s marketing of human
    health products in the United States and in most major foreign
    markets. Patents covering products that it has introduced
    normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the
    successful marketing and sale of its products. The Company seeks
    patents covering each of its products in each of the markets
    where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful
    patent protection is available.

Even if the Company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its
    products, third parties or government authorities may challenge
    or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent
    applications. It is important for the Company s business to
    defend successfully the patent rights that provide market
    exclusivity for its products. The Company is often involved in
    patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or
    infringement and similar claims against the Company. The Company
    aggressively defends its important patents both within and
    outside the United States, including by filing claims of
    infringement against other parties. See Item 8.
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, 
    Note 12.  Contingencies and Environmental
    Liabilities  below. In particular, manufacturers of generic
    pharmaceutical products from time to time file Abbreviated New
    Drug Applications ( ANDA ) with the FDA seeking to
    market generic forms of the Company s products prior to the
    expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company. The Company
    normally responds by vigorously defending its patent, including
    by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Patent
    litigation and other challenges to the Company s patents
    are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the Company of
    market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases,
    third party patents may prevent the Company from marketing and
    selling a product in a particular geographic area.

Additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that
    compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of
    national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales
    and profits from those regions and negatively affect the
    Company s results of operations. Further, recent court
    decisions relating to other companies  U.S. patents,
    potential U.S. legislation relating to patent reform, as
    well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of
    intellectual property protection.

If one or more important products lose patent protection in
    profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to
    decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those
    products becoming available and, in the case of certain legacy
    Schering-Plough or MSP Partnership products, such a loss could
    result in a material non-cash impairment charge. The
    Company s results of operations may be adversely affected
    by the lost sales unless and until the Company has successfully
    launched commercially successful replacement products.

The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for the
    Company s largest selling product,  Singulair,
     expires in August 2012. The Company expects that within the
    two years following patent expiration, it will lose
    substantially all U.S. sales of  Singulair , with most
    of those declines coming in the first full year following patent
    expiration. Also, the patent for  Singulair  will expire in
    a number of major European markets in August 2012 and the
    Company expects sales of  Singulair  in those markets will
    decline significantly thereafter (although the six month
    Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date in some
    markets to February 2013).

Key Company products generate a significant amount of the
    Company s profits and cash flows, and any events that
    adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have
    a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash
    flows. 

The Company s ability to generate profits and operating
    cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of
    the Company s key products, such as  Singulair ,
     Remicade ,  Vytorin, Zetia, Januvia, Nasonex, Isentress,
     and  Temodar . As a result of the Company s
    dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any
    of these products or the markets for any of these products could
    have a significant impact on results of operations and cash
    flows. These events could include loss of patent protection,
    increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or
    over-the-counter availability of the Company s product or a
    competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side
    effects, increased competition from the introduction of new,
    more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from
    the market of the product for any reason. If any of these events
    had a material adverse effect on the sales of certain legacy
    Schering-Plough or MSP Partnership products, such an event could
    result in a material non-cash impairment charge.

24

The Company s research and development efforts may not
    succeed in developing commercially successful products and the
    Company may not be able to acquire commercially successful
    products in other ways; in consequence, the Company may not be
    able to replace sales of successful products that have lost
    patent protection. 

Like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain
    competitive, the Company must continue to launch new products
    each year. Declines in sales of products, such as  Cozaar ,
     Hyzaar  and  Fosamax,  after the loss of market
    exclusivity mean that the Company s future success is
    dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new
    products which it may develop through joint ventures and
    products which it is able to obtain through license or
    acquisition. To accomplish this, the Company commits substantial
    effort, funds and other resources to research and development,
    both through its own dedicated resources and through various
    collaborations with third parties. There is a high rate of
    failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat
    diseases. As a result, there is a high risk that funds invested
    by the Company in research programs will not generate financial
    returns. This risk profile is compounded by the fact that this
    research has a long investment cycle. To bring a pharmaceutical
    compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or
    more and failure can occur at any point in the process,
    including later in the process after significant funds have been
    invested.

For a description of the research and development process, see
     Research and Development  above. Each phase of
    testing is highly regulated, and during each phase there is a
    substantial risk that the Company will encounter serious
    obstacles or will not achieve its goals, and accordingly the
    Company may abandon a product in which it has invested
    substantial amounts of time and resources. Some of the risks
    encountered in the research and development process include the
    following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield
    disappointing results; clinical trials of a new drug may not be
    successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful
    side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the FDA for its
    intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a
    new drug; or sales of a new product may be disappointing.

The Company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of
    its products now under development will be approved or launched;
    whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire
    compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any
    products, once launched, will be commercially successful. The
    Company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new
    products and successful new indications or brand extensions for
    existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial
    research and development costs and to replace sales that are
    lost as profitable products, such as  Cozaar, Hyzaar  and
     Singular  in 2012 ,  lose patent protection or are
    displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so
    in the short term or long term would have a material adverse
    effect on the Company s business, results of operations,
    cash flow, financial position and prospects.

The Company s success is dependent on the successful
    development and marketing of new products, which are subject to
    substantial risks. 

Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach
    market for numerous reasons, including the following:

findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of
    competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or
    pre-clinical testing;

failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including
    delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and
    increasing uncertainties about the time required to obtain
    regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by
    regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals;

lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other
    factors; and

preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of
    others.

In connection with the Merger, the Company assessed and
    prioritized its pipeline to identify the most promising,
    high-potential compounds for development. In the future, if
    certain legacy Schering-Plough pipeline programs are cancelled
    or if the Company believes that their commercial prospects have
    been reduced, the Company may recognize material non-cash
    impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair
    value and capitalized in connection with the Merger. These
    non-cash impairment charges, which the Company anticipates

25

would be excluded from the Company s non-GAAP earnings,
    could be material to the Company s future GAAP earnings.
    For example, as discussed below, the Company recognized a
    non-cash impairment charge of $1.7 billion in 2010 with
    respect to vorapaxar, which is a legacy Schering-Plough pipeline
    program.

The Company s products, including products in
    development, can not be marketed unless the Company obtains and
    maintains regulatory approval. 

The Company s activities, including research, preclinical
    testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its
    products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous
    federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United
    States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory
    authorities, including the EU. In the United States, the FDA is
    of particular importance to the Company, as it administers
    requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of
    prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA
    requirements have increased the amount of time and money
    necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in
    the United States. Regulation outside the United States also is
    primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many
    cases, cost reduction. The FDA and foreign regulatory
    authorities have substantial discretion to require additional
    testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing
    approval and to mandate product withdrawals.

Even if the Company is successful in developing new products, it
    will not be able to market any of those products unless and
    until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each
    jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. Once
    obtained, the Company must maintain approval as long as it plans
    to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval
    is required. The Company s failure to obtain approval,
    significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to
    maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from
    selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is
    obtained, if ever. The Company would not be able to realize
    revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it
    does not have approval.

The Company faces intense competition from lower-cost generic
    products. 

In general, the Company faces increasing competition from
    lower-cost generic products. The patent rights that protect its
    products are of varying strengths and durations. In addition, in
    some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than
    in the United States or the EU. In the United States, political
    pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to
    legislation which encourages the use of generic products.
    Although it is the Company s policy to actively protect its
    patent rights, generic challenges to the Company s products
    can arise at any time, and it may not be able to prevent the
    emergence of generic competition for its products.

Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed
    promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the Company s
    sales of that product. Availability of generic substitutes for
    the Company s drugs may adversely affect its results of
    operations and cash flow. In addition, proposals emerge from
    time to time in the United States and other countries for
    legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of
    generic drugs. Any such proposal that is enacted into law could
    worsen this substantial negative effect on the Company s
    sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of
    operations, financial position and prospects.

The Company faces intense competition from competitors 
    products which, in addition to other factors, could in certain
    circumstances lead to non-cash impairment charges. 

The Company s products face intense competition from
    competitors  products. This competition may increase as new
    products enter the market. In such an event, the
    competitors  products may be safer or more effective or
    more effectively marketed and sold than the Company s
    products. Alternatively, in the case of generic competition,
    including the generic availability of competitors  branded
    products, they may be equally safe and effective products that
    are sold at a substantially lower price than the Company s
    products. As a result, if the Company fails to maintain its
    competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect
    on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial
    position and prospects. In addition, if legacy Schering-Plough
    products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in
    connection with the Merger, such as  Saphris,  or former
    MSP Partnership products,  Vytorin  or  Zetia ,
    experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact
    product cash flows, the Company may recognize material non-cash
    impairment charges with respect to the value of those products.
    These non-cash impairment charges, which the Company anticipates
    would be excluded from the Company s non-GAAP earnings,
    could be material to the Company s future GAAP earnings.

26

The current uncertainty in global economic conditions
    together with austerity measures being taken by governments in
    Europe could negatively affect the Company s operating
    results. 

The current uncertainty in global economic conditions may result
    in a further slowdown to the global economy that could affect
    the Company s business by reducing the prices that drug
    wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and
    managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for
    the Company s products or by reducing the demand for the
    Company s products, which could in turn negatively impact
    the Company s sales and result in a material adverse effect
    on the Company s business, cash flow, results of
    operations, financial position and prospects.

While many of the Company s brands experienced positive
    growth trends in the EU during 2010, the environment in the EU
    and across Europe is now more challenging. Many countries have
    announced austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in areas
    such as health care. The implementation of pricing actions
    varies by country and many have announced measures to reduce
    prices of generic and patented drugs. While the Company is
    taking steps to mitigate the immediate impact in the EU, it is
    possible that the austerity measures could negatively affect the
    Company s revenue performance in 2011 and beyond more than
    the Company anticipates.

The Company faces pricing pressure with respect to its
    products. 

The Company faces increasing pricing pressure globally from
    managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies
    and programs that could negatively affect the Company s
    sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include
    (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and
    governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws
    and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the
    Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of
    2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Changes
    to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform
    in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of
    entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and
    private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing
    pressures. The increased purchasing power of entities that
    negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector
    beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures.

Outside the United States, numerous major markets have pervasive
    government involvement in funding health care and, in that
    regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and
    vaccine products. Consequently, in those markets, the Company is
    subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with
    respect to its products.

The Company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future.

The health care industry will continue to be subject to
    increasing regulation and political action. 

The Company believes that the health care industry will continue
    to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and
    legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care
    system are considered by Congress and state legislatures. In
    2010, major health care reform was adopted into law in the
    United States.

Important market reforms began last year and will continue
    through full implementation in 2014. The new law is expected to
    expand access to health care to more than 32 million
    Americans by the end of the decade. In 2010, Merck incurred
    additional costs as a result of the new law, including increased
    Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues. In
    2010, the minimum rebate to states participating in the Medicaid
    program increased from 15.1% to 23.1% on the Company s
    branded prescription drugs; the Medicaid rebate was extended to
    Medicaid Managed Care Organizations; and eligibility for the
    federal 340B drug discount program was extended to rural
    referral centers, sole community hospitals, critical access
    hospitals, certain free standing cancer hospitals, and certain
    additional children s hospitals.

Beginning in 2011, the law requires drug manufacturers to pay a
    50% discount on Medicare Part D utilization incurred by
    beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage
    gap (i.e., the so-called  donut hole ). Also,
    beginning in 2011, the Company will incur an annual health care
    reform fee, which is being assessed on all branded prescription
    drug manufacturers and importers. The fee will be calculated
    based on the industry s total sales of branded prescription
    drugs to specified government programs. The percentage of a
    manufacturer s sales that are included is determined by a
    tiered scale based on the manufacturer s individual
    revenues. Each

27

manufacturer s portion of the total annual fee (the fee for
    2011 is $2.5 billion) will be based on the
    manufacturer s proportion of the total includable sales in
    the prior year.

The Company cannot predict the likelihood of all future changes
    in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical
    industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the
    Company s results of operations, financial condition or
    business.

The Company is experiencing difficulties and delays in the
    manufacturing of certain of its products. 

As previously disclosed, Old Merck has, in the past, experienced
    difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other
    products. These issues are continuing, in particular, with
    respect to the manufacture of the Company s varicella
    zoster virus-containing vaccines, such as  Varivax, ProQuad
     and  Zostavax . Similarly, the Company has, in the
    past, experienced difficulties manufacturing certain of its
    animal health products and is currently experiencing difficulty
    manufacturing certain women s health products. The Company
    is working on these issues, but there can be no assurance of
    when or if these issues will be finally resolved.

In addition to the difficulties that the Company is experiencing
    currently, the Company may experience difficulties and delays
    inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure
    of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with
    Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable
    regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to
    manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product
    manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the
    construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing
    facilities, including those intended to support future demand
    for the Company s products; and (iii) other
    manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in
    manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing
    capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of
    products produced, or physical limitations that could impact
    continuous supply. Manufacturing difficulties can result in
    product shortages, leading to lost sales.

The Company faces significant litigation related to
     Vioxx.  

On September 30, 2004, Old Merck voluntarily withdrew
     Vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication, from the
    market worldwide. Although Old Merck has settled the major
    portion of the U.S. Product Liability litigation, the
    Company still faces material litigation arising from the
    voluntary withdrawal of  Vioxx .

In addition to the  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits,
    various purported class actions and individual lawsuits have
    been brought against Old Merck and several current and former
    officers and directors of Old Merck alleging that Old Merck made
    false and misleading statements regarding  Vioxx  in
    violation of the federal and state securities laws (all of these
    suits are referred to as the   Vioxx  Securities
    Lawsuits ). The  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits have been
    transferred by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
    (the  JPML ) to the U.S. District Court for the
    District of New Jersey before District Judge Stanley R. Chesler
    for inclusion in a nationwide MDL (the  Shareholder
    MDL ), and have been consolidated for all purposes. On
    June 18, 2010, Old Merck moved to dismiss the Fifth Amended
    Class Action Complaint in the consolidated securities class
    action. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on August 9,
    2010, and Old Merck filed its reply on September 17, 2010.
    The motion is currently pending before the district court. In
    addition, several individual securities lawsuits filed by
    foreign institutional investors also are consolidated with the
     Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits; by stipulation, defendants are
    not required to respond to these complaints until the resolution
    of any motions to dismiss in the consolidated securities class
    action. In addition, various putative class actions have been
    brought against Old Merck and several current and former
    employees, officers, and directors of the Company alleging
    violations of ERISA. (All of these suits are referred to as the
      Vioxx  ERISA Lawsuits  and, together with the
     Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits the   Vioxx
     Shareholder Lawsuits . The  Vioxx  Shareholder
    Lawsuits are discussed more fully in Item 8.
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, 
    Note 12.  Contingencies and Environmental
    Liabilities  below.) Old Merck has also been named as a
    defendant in actions in various countries outside the United
    States. (All of these suits are referred to as the
      Vioxx  Foreign Lawsuits .) Old Merck has also
    been sued by 12 states, one county and a private citizen as
    a  qui tam  lawsuit with respect to the marketing of
     Vioxx. 

The U.S. Department of Justice ( DOJ ) has issued
    subpoenas requesting information relating to Old Merck s
    research, marketing and selling activities with respect to
     Vioxx  in a federal health care investigation under
    criminal statutes. This investigation includes subpoenas for
    witnesses to appear before a grand jury. As previously
    disclosed, in March 2009, Old Merck received a letter from the
    U.S. Attorney s Office for the District of

28

Massachusetts identifying it as a target of the grand jury
    investigation regarding  Vioxx . In 2010, the Company
    established a $950 million reserve (the   Vioxx
     Liability Reserve ) in connection with the anticipated
    resolution of the DOJ s investigation. The Company s
    discussions with the government are ongoing. Until they are
    concluded, there can be no certainty about a definitive
    resolution. There are also ongoing investigations by local
    authorities in Europe. The Company is cooperating with
    authorities in all of these investigations. (All of these
    investigations, including the DOJ investigation, are referred to
    as the   Vioxx  Investigations .) The Company
    cannot predict the outcome of any of these investigations;
    however, they could result in potential civil
     and/or 
    criminal remedies.

The  Vioxx  product liability litigation is discussed more
    fully in Item 8.  Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data,  Note 12.  Contingencies and
    Environmental Liabilities  below. The Company currently
    anticipates that three U.S.  Vioxx  Product Liability
    Lawsuits will be tried in 2011. The Company cannot predict the
    timing of any other trials related to the  Vioxx
     Litigation. The Company believes that it has meritorious
    defenses to the  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits,
     Vioxx  Shareholder Lawsuits and  Vioxx  Foreign
    Lawsuits (collectively, the   Vioxx  Lawsuits )
    and will vigorously defend against them. The Company s
    insurance coverage with respect to the  Vioxx  Lawsuits
    will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and any losses.

During 2010, Merck spent approximately $140 million in the
    aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide related to
    (i) the  Vioxx  Lawsuits, and (ii) the  Vioxx
     Investigations (collectively, the   Vioxx
     Litigation ). In 2010, Merck recorded charges of
    $106 million to add to the reserve solely for its future
    legal defense costs related to the  Vioxx  Litigation,
    which was $110 million at December 31, 2009 and
    $76 million at December 31, 2010 (the   Vioxx
     Legal Defense Costs Reserve ). The amount of the
     Vioxx  Legal Defense Costs Reserve is based on certain
    assumptions, described below under Item 8.  Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data,  Note 12.
     Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities,  and is
    the best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs that
    the Company believes will be incurred in connection with the
    remaining aspects of the  Vioxx  Litigation, however,
    events such as additional trials in the  Vioxx  Litigation
    and other events that could arise in the course of the  Vioxx
     Litigation could affect the ultimate amount of defense costs
    to be incurred by the Company. In addition, as mentioned above,
    in 2010 the Company established the  Vioxx  Liability
    Reserve in connection with the anticipated resolution of the
    DOJ s investigation.

The Company is not currently able to estimate any additional
    amounts that it may be required to pay in connection with the
     Vioxx  Lawsuits or  Vioxx  Investigations. These
    proceedings are still expected to continue for years and the
    Company cannot predict the course the proceedings will take. In
    view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of
    litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the
    claimants seek unspecified damages, the Company is unable to
    predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot
    reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with
    respect to the  Vioxx  Lawsuits not included in the
    Settlement Program. Other than the  Vioxx  Liability
    Reserve, the Company has not established any reserves for any
    potential liability relating to the  Vioxx  Lawsuits not
    included in the Settlement Program or the  Vioxx 
    Investigations.

A series of unfavorable outcomes in the  Vioxx  Lawsuits or
    the  Vioxx  Investigations, resulting in the payment of
    substantial damages or fines or resulting in criminal penalties,
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position
    and prospects.

Issues concerning  Vytorin  and the ENHANCE clinical
    trial have had an adverse effect on sales of  Vytorin  and
     Zetia  in the United States and results from ongoing
    trials could have an adverse effect on such sales. 

The Company sells  Vytorin  and  Zetia.  As previously
    disclosed, in January 2008, the legacy companies announced the
    results of the ENHANCE clinical trial, an imaging trial in
    720 patients with heterozygous familial
    hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very
    high levels of LDL  bad  cholesterol and greatly
    increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. As
    previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin
    10/80 mg ( Vytorin ) significantly lowered LDL
     bad  cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg
    alone, there was no significant difference between treatment
    with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the
    pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of
    carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound.
    The IMPROVE-IT trial is underway and is designed to provide
    cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in
    patients with acute coronary syndrome. No incremental benefit of
    ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality
    over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been
    established.

29

In January 2009, the FDA announced that it had completed its
    review of the final clinical study report of ENHANCE. The FDA
    stated that the results from ENHANCE did not change its position
    that elevated LDL cholesterol is a risk factor for
    cardiovascular disease and that lowering LDL cholesterol reduces
    the risk for cardiovascular disease. For a discussion concerning
    shareholder litigation arising out of the ENHANCE study, see
    Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data,  Note 12.  Contingencies and Environmental
    Liabilities  below.

The IMPROVE-IT trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. In the
    IMPROVE-IT trial, a blinded interim efficacy analysis was
    conducted by the DSMB for the trial when approximately 50% of
    the endpoints were accrued. The DSMB recommended continuing the
    trial with no changes in the study protocol. Another blinded
    interim efficacy analysis is planned by the DSMB when
    approximately 75% of the primary events have been accrued. If,
    based on the results of the interim analysis, the trial were to
    be halted because of concerns related to  Vytorin , that
    could have a material adverse effect on sales of  Vytorin
     and  Zetia .

Following the announcements of the ENHANCE clinical trial
    results, sales of  Vytorin  and  Zetia  declined in
    2008, 2009 and 2010 in the United States. These issues
    concerning the ENHANCE clinical trial have had an adverse effect
    on sales of  Vytorin  and  Zetia  and could continue
    to have an adverse effect on such sales. If sales of such
    products are materially adversely affected, the Company s
    business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position
    and prospects could also be materially adversely affected. In
    addition, unfavorable outcomes resulting from the litigation
    concerning the sale and promotion of these products could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company s business, cash
    flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects.

An arbitration proceeding commenced by Centocor against
    Schering-Plough may result in the Company s loss of the
    rights to market  Remicade  and  Simponi.  

A subsidiary of the Company is a party to a Distribution
    Agreement with Centocor, a wholly owned subsidiary of
    Johnson   Johnson, under which the Schering-Plough
    subsidiary has rights to distribute and commercialize the
    rheumatoid arthritis treatment  Remicade  and
     Simponi , a next-generation treatment, in certain
    territories.

Under Section 8.2(c) of the Distribution Agreement,
     If either party is acquired by a third party or otherwise
    comes under Control (as defined in Section 1.4 [of the
    Distribution Agreement]) of a third party, it will promptly
    notify the other party not subject to such change of control.
    The party not subject to such change of control will have the
    right, however not later than thirty (30) days from such
    notification, to notify in writing the party subject to the
    change of Control of the termination of the Agreement taking
    effect immediately. As used herein  Change of Control 
    shall mean (i) any merger, reorganization, consolidation or
    combination in which a party to this Agreement is not the
    surviving corporation; or (ii) any  person 
    (within the meaning of Section 13(d) and
    Section 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934),
    excluding a party s Affiliates, is or becomes the
    beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the
    party representing more than fifty percent (50%) of either
    (A) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the
    party or (B) the combined voting power of the party s
    then-outstanding voting securities; or (iii) if individuals
    who as of the Effective Date [April 3, 1998] constitute the
    Board of Directors of the party (the  Incumbent
    Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a
    majority of the Board of Directors of the party; provided,
    however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to
    the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by
    the party s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at
    least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent
    Board shall be considered as though such individual were a
    member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose,
    any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as
    a result of an actual or threatened election contest with
    respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual
    or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on
    behalf of a person other than the Board; or (iv) approval
    by the shareholders of a party of a complete liquidation or the
    complete dissolution of such party. 

Section 1.4 of the Distribution Agreement defines
     Control  to mean  the ability of any entity (the
     Controlling  entity), directly or indirectly, through
    ownership of securities, by agreement or by any other method, to
    direct the manner in which more than fifty percent (50%) of the
    outstanding voting rights of any other entity (the
     Controlled  entity), whether or not represented by
    securities, shall be cast, or the right to receive over fifty
    percent (50%) of the profits or earnings of, or to otherwise
    control the management decisions of, such other entity (also a
     Controlled  entity). 

30

On May 27, 2009, Centocor delivered to Schering-Plough a
    notice initiating an arbitration proceeding to resolve whether,
    as a result of the then proposed Merger, Centocor is permitted
    to terminate the Distribution Agreement and related agreements.
    As part of the arbitration process, Centocor has taken the
    position that it has the right to terminate the Distribution
    Agreement on the grounds that, in the Merger, Schering-Plough
    and the Schering-Plough subsidiary party to the Distribution
    Agreement were (i)  acquired by a third party or
    otherwise come[ing] under  Control  (as defined in
    Section 1.4) of a third party 
     and/or 
    (ii) undergoing a  Change of Control  (as defined
    in Section 8.2(c)).

The Company is vigorously contesting Centocor s attempt to
    terminate the Distribution Agreement as a result of the Merger.
    A hearing in the arbitration was completed in late December
    2010. If the arbitration panel were to conclude that Centocor is
    permitted to terminate the Distribution Agreement as a result of
    the Merger and Centocor in fact terminates the Distribution
    Agreement, the Company s subsidiary would not be able to
    distribute  Remicade  or  Simponi . In addition, in
    the arbitration, Centocor is claiming damages,  in an
    amount to be determined , that result from Merck s
    alleged non-termination of the Distribution Agreement. If
    Centocor were to prevail in the arbitration, Merck could be
    liable for the net damages, including any offsets or mitigation,
    that the arbitration panel finds Centocor incurred as a result
    of non-termination. Sales of  Remicade  and  Simponi
     in 2010 were $2.7 billion and $97 million,
    respectively. An unfavorable outcome in the arbitration would
    have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial
    position, liquidity and results of operations. In addition, the
    Company would be required to record a material, non-cash
    impairment charge with respect to the termination of those
    marketing rights.

Finally, due to the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the
    arbitration, the parties may choose to settle the dispute under
    mutually agreeable terms but any agreement reached with Centocor
    to resolve the dispute under the Distribution Agreement may
    result in the terms of the Distribution Agreement being modified
    in a manner that may reduce the benefits of the Distribution
    Agreement to the Company.

Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or
    efficacy concerns. 

Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to
    marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified,
    leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as
    well as product liability, consumer fraud
     and/or  other
    claims.

Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the
    Company s business. 

All aspects of the Company s business, including research
    and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales,
    litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to
    extensive legislation and regulation. Changes in applicable
    federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company s business.

Reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing
    arrangements could adversely affect the Company s
    business. 

The Company depends on third parties, including suppliers,
    alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies,
    and third party service providers, for key aspects of its
    business including development, manufacture and
    commercialization of its products and support for its
    information technology systems. Failure of these third parties
    to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to
    the Company or the development of factors that materially
    disrupt the relationships between the Company and these third
    parties could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s business.

The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated
    information technology and infrastructure. 

The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated
    information technology and infrastructure. Any significant
    breakdown, intrusion, interruption or corruption of these
    systems or data breaches could have a material adverse effect on
    our business. In addition, the Company currently is proceeding
    with a multi-year implementation of an enterprise wide resource
    planning system, which was implemented in the United States in
    2010 and which includes modification to the design, operation
    and documentation of its internal controls over financial
    reporting. The Company intends to implement the resource
    planning system in major European markets and Canada in 2011.
    Any material problems in the implementation could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company s business.

31

Developments following regulatory approval may adversely
    affect sales of the Company s products. 

Even after a product reaches market, certain developments
    following regulatory approval, including results in
    post-marketing Phase IV trials, may decrease demand for the
    Company s products, including the following:

the re-review of products that are already marketed;

new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories;

the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are
    already marketed;

changing government standards or public expectations regarding
    safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and

greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion.

In the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing
    surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the Company and of
    competitors within the industry have raised safety concerns that
    have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed
    products. Clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of
    certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some
    prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of
    pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected
    the sales of such products. In addition, increased scrutiny of
    the outcomes of clinical trials have led to increased volatility
    in market reaction. Further, these matters often attract
    litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is
    groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond.

In addition, following the wake of product withdrawals and other
    significant safety issues, health authorities such as the FDA,
    the EMA and the Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency have
    increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk
    balance of drugs. Some health authorities appear to have become
    more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new
    products or indications and are re-reviewing select products
    that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties
    in the regulatory processes. There is also greater regulatory
    scrutiny, especially in the United States, on advertising and
    promotion and, in particular,
     direct-to-consumer 
    advertising.

If previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is
    an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects
    of any of the Company s products, it could significantly
    reduce demand for the product or require the Company to take
    actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing
    the product from the market, restricting its distribution or
    applying for labeling changes. Further, in the current
    environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the
    Company is at risk for product liability claims for its products.

Negative events in the animal health industry could have a
    negative impact on future results of operations. 

Future sales of key animal health products could be adversely
    impacted by a number of risk factors including certain risks
    that are specific to the animal health business. For example,
    the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as Bovine
    Spongiform Encephalopathy ( BSE ) or mad cow disease,
    could lead to their widespread death and precautionary
    destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for
    animals, which could adversely impact the Company s results
    of operations. Also, the outbreak of any highly contagious
    diseases near the Company s main production sites could
    require the Company to immediately halt production of vaccines
    at such sites or force the Company to incur substantial expenses
    in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. Other risks
    specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics,
    government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global
    agribusiness economic events. As the Animal Health segment of
    the Company s business becomes more significant, the impact
    of any such events on future results of operations would also
    become more significant.

The Company is working with sanofi-aventis to create an
    animal health joint venture. 

As previously disclosed, the Company has agreed to create an
    animal health joint venture with sanofi-aventis. Under the
    agreement, both companies will contribute their respective
    animal health businesses to the new

32

equally-owned joint venture. The transaction is expected to
    close in the third quarter of 2011. Once the animal health joint
    venture is established, there will be a period of integration
    during which the animal health business could suffer. It is
    possible that the integration process could result in the loss
    of key employees, result in the disruption of each
    company s ongoing animal health business or identify
    inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies
    that adversely affect the joint venture s ability to
    maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors
    or other parties.

Disruption from the integration process could have a material
    adverse effect on the joint venture s business which is
    expected to be an important contributor to the Company s
    business and results of operations. The formation of the animal
    health joint venture is expected to be dilutive to the
    Company s earnings for the first 12 months after the
    transaction closes.

Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could
    have a negative impact on future results of operations. 

The successful development, testing, manufacturing and
    commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal
    health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process.
    There are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics,
    including:

There may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased
    tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains
    and other biological materials. In addition, government
    regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the United States
    and European states within the EU, could result in restricted
    access to, or transport or use of, such materials. If the
    Company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or
    if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such
    materials, the Company may not be able to conduct research
    activities as planned and may incur additional development costs.

The development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are
    subject to regulation by the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory
    bodies. These regulations are often more complex and extensive
    than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical
    products. For example, in the United States, a BLA, including
    both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data
    regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human
    vaccine candidates and FDA approval is required for the release
    of each manufactured lot.

Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is
    often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies
    to handle living micro-organisms. Each lot of an approved
    biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength,
    quality, purity and potency. Manufacturing biologics requires
    facilities specifically designed for and validated for this
    purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control
    procedures are necessary. Slight deviations anywhere in the
    manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging,
    storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result
    in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. When changes are
    made to the manufacturing process, the Company may be required
    to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable
    identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products
    before and after such changes.

Biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because
    production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant
    material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. In
    particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be
    difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines.

The use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to
    allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions,
    or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination.
    Any of these events could result in substantial costs.

The Company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in
    currency exchange rates and interest rates. 

The Company operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such,
    virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local
    jurisdiction. Additionally, the Company has entered and will
    enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial
    transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate
    exposure.

33

Since the Company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate
    against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the
    Company s results of operations, financial position and
    cash flows.

In order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market
    fluctuations, the Company will from time to time enter into
    hedging agreements. While hedging agreements, such as currency
    options and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure
    to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts
    to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful.

The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws,
    which may result in additional liabilities that may affect
    results of operations. 

The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the
    jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgment is
    required for determining the Company s tax liabilities, and
    the Company s tax returns are periodically examined by
    various tax authorities. The Company believes that its accrual
    for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on
    past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about
    potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the
    complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any
    tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts
    accrued.

In February 2010, President Obama s administration proposed
    significant changes to the U.S. international tax laws,
    including changes that would limit U.S. tax deductions for
    expenses related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and
    modify the U.S. foreign tax credit rules. We cannot
    determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or
    what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to
    their being enacted into law. If these or other changes to the
    U.S. international tax laws are enacted, they could have a
    significant impact on the financial results of the Company.

In addition, the Company may be impacted by changes in tax laws,
    including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the
    remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations
    impacting the U.S. tax treatment of foreign earnings, new
    tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and
    foreign jurisdictions.

The Company may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings,
    revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from the
    Merger, which could adversely affect the value of the
    Company s common stock. 

The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on the
    Company s ability to successfully combine the businesses of
    Old Merck and Schering-Plough and realize the anticipated
    benefits and cost savings from the combination of the two
    companies. If the combined company is not able to achieve these
    objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the
    value of the Company s common stock may be adversely
    affected.

It is possible that the integration process could result in the
    loss of key employees, result in the disruption of each legacy
    company s ongoing businesses or identify inconsistencies in
    standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely
    affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers,
    suppliers, distributors, creditors, lessors, clinical trial
    investigators or managers or to achieve the anticipated benefits
    of the Merger.

Specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the
    operations of the two legacy companies in order to realize the
    anticipated benefits of the Merger include, among other things:

integrating the research and development, manufacturing,
    distribution, marketing and promotion activities and information
    technology systems of Old Merck and Schering-Plough;

conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and
    other policies, business cultures and compensation structures
    between the companies;

identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming
    operations and assets; and

managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating
    the operations of the combined company.

Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert
    management attention and resources. An inability to realize the
    full extent of the anticipated benefits of the Merger, as well
    as any delays encountered in the

34

integration process, could have an adverse effect on the
    Company s business and results of operations, which may
    affect the value of the shares of Company common stock.

In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and
    unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the
    integration plan may not be realized. Actual cost and sales
    synergies may be lower than the Company expects and may take
    longer to achieve than anticipated. If the Company is not able
    to adequately address these challenges, it may be unable to
    successfully integrate the operations of the two legacy
    companies, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the
    integration of the two legacy companies.

Delays encountered in the integration process could have a
    material adverse effect on the revenues, expenses, operating
    results and financial condition of the Company. Although the
    Company expects significant benefits, such as increased cost
    savings, to result from the Merger, there can be no assurance
    that the Company will realize all of these anticipated benefits.

Product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost
    prohibitive or unavailable. 

As a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance
    has become less available while the cost has increased
    significantly. With respect to product liability, the Company
    self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability
    of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. The Company
    has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of
    obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely
    benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no
    insurance for certain product liabilities effective
    August 1, 2004, including liability for legacy Merck
    products first sold after that date. The Company will
    continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk;
    however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will
    be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover
    product liabilities that may arise.

The Company may not be able to realize the expected benefits
    of its investments in emerging markets. 

The Company has been taking steps to increase its presence in
    emerging markets. However, there is no guarantee that the
    Company s efforts to expand sales in emerging markets will
    succeed. Some countries within emerging markets may be
    especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability
    or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. In
    order for the Company to successfully implement its emerging
    markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified
    personnel. The Company may also be required to increase its
    reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. In
    addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate
    substantially and if such currencies devalue and we cannot
    offset the devaluations, the Company s financial
    performance within such countries could be adversely affected.

For all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry
    significant risks. However, a failure to continue to expand the
    Company s business in emerging markets could have a
    material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or
    results of the Company s operations.

The Company has significant global operations, which expose
    it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a
    material negative impact on the Company s results of
    operations. 

The extent of the Company s operations outside the United
    States are significant. Risks inherent in conducting a global
    business include:

changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and
    pricing restrictions in key markets;

multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the
    Company s ability to manufacture and sell its products in
    key markets;

trade protection measures and import or export licensing
    requirements;

foreign exchange fluctuations;

diminished protection of intellectual property in some
    countries; and

possible nationalization and expropriation.

35

As discussed below, in 2010 the Company was required to
    remeasure its local currency operations in Venezuela to
    U.S. dollars as the Venezuelan economy was determined to be
    hyperinflationary. Also, in January and again in December 2010,
    the Venezuelan government devalued its currency. These actions
    have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on the
    Company s results of operations, financial position and
    cash flows.

Furthermore, the Company believes the credit and economic
    conditions within Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal, among other
    members of the EU, have deteriorated during 2010. These
    conditions, as well as inherent variability of timing of cash
    receipts, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an
    increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect
    on the accounts receivable outstanding in these countries. As of
    December 31, 2010, the Company s accounts receivable
    in Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal totaled approximately
    $1.4 billion of which hospital and public sector
    receivables in Greece were approximately 15%. During 2010, the
    Greek government announced it would exchange zero coupon bonds
    for outstanding
     2007-2009 
    accounts receivable related to certain government sponsored
    institutions.

In addition, there may be changes to the Company s business
    and political position if there is instability, disruption or
    destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of
    cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or
    social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including
    famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease.

Cautionary
    Factors that May Affect Future Results  

(Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995)

This report, including the Annual Report, and other written
    reports and oral statements made from time to time by the
    Company may contain so-called  forward-looking
    statements,  all of which are based on management s
    current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties
    which may cause results to differ materially from those set
    forth in the statements. One can identify these forward-looking
    statements by their use of words such as
     anticipates,   expects,   plans, 
     will,   estimates,   forecasts, 
     projects  and other words of similar meaning. One can
    also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly
    to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to
    address the Company s growth strategy, financial results,
    product development, product approvals, product potential, and
    development programs. One must carefully consider any such
    statement and should understand that many factors could cause
    actual results to differ materially from the Company s
    forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate
    assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and
    uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are
    not. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual
    future results may vary materially. The Company does not assume
    the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. The
    Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements. Although it is not possible to
    predict or identify all such factors, they may include the
    following:

Competition from generic products as the Company s products
    lose patent protection.

Increased  brand  competition in therapeutic areas
    important to the Company s long-term business performance.

The difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product
    development. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of
    new product development is inherently uncertain. A drug
    candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more
    late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory
    approval. New product candidates may appear promising in
    development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or
    safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory
    approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture
     and/or  the
    infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of
    others. Furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be
    disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels.

Pricing pressures, both in the United States and abroad,
    including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial
    decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to
    Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical
    reimbursement and pricing in general.

36

Changes in government laws and regulations and the enforcement
    thereof affecting the Company s business.

Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products,
    whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product
    recalls, withdrawals or declining sales.

Significant litigation related to  Vioxx , and  Vytorin
     and  Zetia .

The arbitration proceeding involving the Company s right to
    distribute  Remicade  and  Simponi .

Legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust
    litigation and governmental investigations, including tax
    disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with
    branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude
    commercialization of products or negatively affect the
    profitability of existing products.

Lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties
    in the approval process of the FDA and foreign regulatory
    authorities.

Increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world,
    including the United States and the EU. The legislative and
    regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues
    to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on
    privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect
    directly the Company s business, including recently enacted
    laws in a majority of states in the United States requiring
    security breach notification.

Changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of
    foreign earnings.

Changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by
    standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board and the SEC, that are adverse to the
    Company.

Economic factors over which the Company has no control,
    including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign
    currency exchange rates.

This list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of
    all potential risks and uncertainties. See  Risk
    Factors  above.

Item 1B.    

Unresolved
    Staff Comments.  

None

Item 2.    

Properties.  

The Company s corporate headquarters is located in
    Whitehouse Station, New Jersey. The Company s
    U.S. commercial operations are headquartered in Upper
    Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. The Company s
    U.S. pharmaceutical business is conducted through
    divisional headquarters located in Upper Gwynedd and Whitehouse
    Station, New Jersey. The Company s vaccines business is
    conducted through divisional headquarters located in West Point,
    Pennsylvania. Merck s Animal Health global headquarters is
    located in Boxmeer, the Netherlands. Principal
    U.S. research facilities are located in Rahway, Kenilworth,
    Summit and Union, New Jersey, West Point, Palo Alto, California,
    and Nebraska (Animal Health). Principal research facilities
    outside the U.S. are located in the Netherlands and
    Scotland. The Company also has production facilities for human
    health products at 15 locations in the United States and Puerto
    Rico. Outside the United States, through subsidiaries, the
    Company owns or has an interest in manufacturing plants or other
    properties in Australia, Canada, Japan, Singapore, South Africa,
    and other countries in Western Europe, Central and South
    America, and Asia.

Capital expenditures for 2010 were $1.7 billion compared
    with $1.5 billion for 2009. In the United States, these
    amounted to $990 million for 2010 and $982 million for
    2009. Abroad, such expenditures amounted to $687 million
    for 2010 and $479 million for 2009.

The Company and its subsidiaries own their principal facilities
    and manufacturing plants under titles that they consider to be
    satisfactory. The Company considers that its properties are in
    good operating condition and that its machinery and equipment
    have been well maintained. Plants for the manufacture of
    products are suitable for

37

their intended purposes and have capacities and projected
    capacities adequate for current and projected needs for existing
    Company products. Some capacity of the plants is being
    converted, with any needed modification, to the requirements of
    newly introduced and future products.

Item 3.    

Legal
    Proceedings.  

The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein
    by reference to Note 12.  Contingencies and
    Environmental Liabilities  included in Part II,
    Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data. 

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant (ages as of February 1,
    2011)  

KENNETH C. FRAZIER   Age 56

January 2011   President and Chief Executive Officer,
    Merck   Co., Inc.

May 2010   President, Merck   Co.,
    Inc.   responsible for the Company s three
    largest worldwide divisions   Global Human Health,
    Merck Manufacturing Division and Merck Research Laboratories

November 2009   Executive Vice President and
    President, Global Human Health, Merck   Co., Inc.
    (formerly Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible
    for the Company s marketing and sales organizations
    worldwide, including the global pharmaceutical and vaccine
    franchises

August 2007   Executive Vice President and President,
    Global Human Health, Old Merck   responsible for the
    Company s marketing and sales organizations worldwide,
    including the global pharmaceutical and vaccine franchises

November 2006   Executive Vice President and General
    Counsel, Old Merck   responsible for legal and public
    affairs functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a
     not-for-profit 
    charitable organization affiliated with the Company)

December 1999   Senior Vice President and General
    Counsel, Old Merck   responsible for legal and public
    affairs functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a
     not-for-profit 
    charitable organization affiliated with the Company)

ADELE D. AMBROSE   Age 54

November 2009   Senior Vice President and Chief
    Communications Officer, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly
    Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible for the
    Global Communications organization

December 2007   Vice President and Chief
    Communications Officer, Old Merck   responsible for
    the Global Communications organization

April, 2005   On sabbatical

Prior to April 2005, Ms. Ambrose was Executive Vice
    President, Public Relations   Investor Communications
    at AT T Wireless (wireless services provider) from
    September 2001 to April 2005.

RICHARD S. BOWLES III   Age 59

November 2009   Executive Vice President and Chief
    Compliance Officer, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly
    Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible for the
    Company s compliance function, including Global
    Safety   Environment, Systems Assurance, Ethics and
    Privacy

Prior to November 2009, Dr. Bowles was Senior Vice
    President, Global Quality Operations,
     Schering-Plough 
    Corporation since March 2001.

38

JOHN CANAN   Age 54

November 2009   Senior Vice President Finance-Global
    Controller, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly
    Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible for the
    Company s global controller s organization including
    all accounting, controls, external reporting and financial
    standards and policies

January 2008   Senior Vice President and Controller,
    Old Merck  responsible for the Corporate
    Controller s Group

September 2006   Vice President, Controller, Old
    Merck   responsible for the Corporate
    Controller s Group

WILLIE A. DEESE   Age 55

November 2009   Executive Vice President and
    President, Merck Manufacturing Division ( MMD ),
    Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly Schering-Plough
    Corporation)   responsible for the Company s
    global manufacturing, procurement, and distribution and
    logistics functions

January 2008   Executive Vice President and President,
    MMD, Old Merck   responsible for the Company s
    global manufacturing, procurement, and distribution and
    logistics functions

May 2005   President, MMD, Old Merck  
    responsible for the Company s global manufacturing,
    procurement, and operational excellence functions

January 2004   Senior Vice President, Global
    Procurement, Old Merck

MIRIAN M. GRADDICK-WEIR   Age 56

November 2009   Executive Vice President, Human
    Resources, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly Schering-Plough
    Corporation)   responsible for the Global Human
    Resources organization

January 2008   Executive Vice President, Human
    Resources, Old Merck   responsible for the Global
    Human Resources organization

September 2006   Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources, Old Merck

Prior to September 2006, Dr. Graddick-Weir was Executive
    Vice President of Human Resources and Employee Communications at
    AT T (communications services provider), and held several
    other senior Human Resources leadership positions at AT T
    for more than 20 years.

BRIDGETTE P. HELLER   Age 49

March 2010   Executive Vice President and President,
    Merck Consumer Care, Merck   Co., Inc.  
    responsible for the Merck Consumer Care organization

Prior to March 2010, Ms. Heller was President,
    Johnson   Johnson s Baby Global Business Unit
    (2007   2010) and Global President for Baby, Kids
    and Wound Care (2005   2007).

Prior to joining Johnson   Johnson, Ms. Heller
    was founder and managing partner at Heller Associates from 2004
    to 2005.

PETER N. KELLOGG   Age 54

November 2009   Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly
    Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible for the
    Company s worldwide financial organization, investor
    relations, corporate development and licensing, and the
    Company s joint venture relationships

August 2007   Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer, Old Merck   responsible for the
    Company s worldwide financial organization, investor
    relations, corporate development and licensing, and the
    Company s joint venture relationships

39

Prior to August 2007, Mr. Kellogg was Executive Vice
    President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Biogen Idec
    (biotechnology company) since November 2003, from the merger of
    Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation.

PETER S. KIM   Age 52

November 2009   Executive Vice President and
    President, Merck Research Laboratories, Merck   Co.,
    Inc. (formerly Schering-Plough Corporation)  
    responsible for the Company s research and development
    efforts worldwide

January 2008   Executive Vice President and President,
    Merck Research Laboratories, Old Merck   responsible
    for the Company s research and development efforts worldwide

January 2003   President, Merck Research Laboratories,
    Old Merck   responsible for the Company s
    research and development efforts worldwide

RAUL E. KOHAN   Age 58

November 2009   Executive Vice President and
    President, Animal Health, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly
    Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible for the
    Company s Animal Health organization

October 2008   Senior Vice President and President,
    Intervet/Schering-Plough Animal Health, Schering-Plough
    Corporation

October 2007   Deputy Head, Animal Health and Senior
    Vice President, Corporate Excellence and Administrative
    Services, Schering-Plough Corporation

February 2007   Senior Vice President and President,
    Animal Health, Schering-Plough Corporation

Prior to February 2007, Mr. Kohan was Group Head of Global
    Specialty Operations and President, Animal Health,
    Schering-Plough Corporation since 2003.

BRUCE N. KUHLIK   Age 54

November 2009   Executive Vice President and General
    Counsel, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly Schering-Plough
    Corporation)   responsible for legal, communications,
    and public policy functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a
     not-for-profit 
    charitable organization affiliated with the Company)

January 2008   Executive Vice President and General
    Counsel, Old Merck   responsible for legal,
    communications, and public policy functions and The Merck
    Company Foundation (a
     not-for-profit 
    charitable organization affiliated with the Company)

August 2007   Senior Vice President and General
    Counsel, Old Merck   responsible for legal,
    communications, and public policy functions and The Merck
    Company Foundation (a
     not-for-profit 
    charitable organization affiliated with the Company)

May 2005   Vice President and Associate General
    Counsel, Old Merck   primary responsibility for the
    Company s  Vioxx  litigation defense

Prior to May 2005, Mr. Kuhlik was Senior Vice President and
    General Counsel for the Pharmaceutical Research and
    Manufacturers of America since October, 2002.

MICHAEL ROSENBLATT, M.D.   Age 63

December 2009   Executive Vice President and Chief
    Medical Officer, Merck   Co., Inc.   the
    Company s primary voice to the global medical community on
    critical issues such as patient safety and will oversee the
    Company s Global Center for Scientific Affairs

Prior to December 2009, Dr. Rosenblatt was the Dean of
    Tufts University School of Medicine since 2003.

40

J. CHRIS SCALET   Age 52

November 2009   Executive Vice President, Global
    Services, and Chief Information Officer ( CIO ),
    Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly Schering-Plough
    Corporation)   responsible for Global Shared Services
    across the human resources, finance, site services and
    information services function; and the enterprise business
    process redesign initiative

January 2008   Executive Vice President, Global
    Services, and CIO, Old Merck   responsible for Global
    Shared Services across the human resources, finance, site
    services and information services function; and the enterprise
    business process redesign initiative

January 2006   Senior Vice President, Global Services,
    and CIO, Old Merck   responsible for Global Shared
    Services across the human resources, finance, site services and
    information services function; and the enterprise business
    process redesign initiative

March 2003   Senior Vice President, Information
    Services, and CIO, Old Merck   responsible for all
    areas of information technology and services including
    application development, technical support, voice and data
    communications, and computer operations worldwide

ADAM H. SCHECHTER   Age 46

May 2010   Executive Vice President and President,
    Global Human Health, Merck   Co., Inc.  
    responsible for the Company s pharmaceutical and vaccine
    marketing and sales organizations worldwide

November 2009   President, Global Human Health,
    U.S. Market-Integration Leader, Merck   Co., Inc.
    (formerly Schering-Plough Corporation)   commercial
    responsibility in the United States for the Company s
    portfolio of prescription medicines. Leader for the integration
    efforts for the Merck/Schering-Plough merger across all
    divisions and functions.

August 2007   President, Global Pharmaceuticals,
    Global Human Health   global responsibilities for the
    Company s atherosclerosis/cardiovascular, diabetes/obesity,
    oncology, specialty/neuroscience, respiratory, bone, arthritis
    and analgesia franchises as well as commercial responsibility in
    the United States for the Company s portfolio of
    prescription medicines

July 2006   President, U.S. Human
    Health   commercial responsibility in the United
    States for the Company s portfolio of prescription medicines

October 2005   General Manager, U.S. Human
    Health   responsible for the Neuro-Psychiatry,
    Osteoporosis, Migraine, Respiratory, and New Products franchises

MERVYN TURNER   Age 64

December 2010   Chief Strategy Officer and Senior Vice
    President, Merck Research Laboratories, Merck   Co.,
    Inc.   responsible for leading the formulation and
    execution of the Company s long term strategic plan and
    additional responsibilities within Merck Research Laboratories

November 2009   Chief Strategy Officer and Senior Vice
    President, Emerging Markets Research   Development,
    Merck Research Laboratories, Merck   Co., Inc.
    (formerly Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible
    for leading the formulation and execution of the Company s
    long term strategic plan and additional responsibilities in
    Emerging Markets Research   Development within Merck
    Research Laboratories

November 2008   Chief Strategy Officer and Senior Vice
    President, Worldwide Licensing and External Research, Merck
    Research Laboratories, Old Merck

October 2002   Senior Vice President, Worldwide
    Licensing and External Research, Old Merck

All officers listed above serve at the pleasure of the Board of
    Directors. None of these officers was elected pursuant to any
    arrangement or understanding between the officer and the Board.

41

PART II  

Item 5.    

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.  

The principal market for trading of the Company s Common
    Stock is the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under
    the symbol SGP prior to the Merger, and then MRK after the
    Merger. The Common Stock market price information set forth in
    the table below is based on historical NYSE market prices.

The following table also sets forth, for the calendar periods
    indicated, the dividend per share information.

Cash
    Dividends Paid per Common Share  

Common
    Stock Market Prices  

As of January 31, 2011, there were approximately
    170,300 shareholders of record.

42

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

The following table summarizes information about the options,
    warrants and rights and other equity compensation under the
    Company s Old Merck and Schering-Plough s equity plans
    as of the close of business on December 31, 2010. The table
    does not include information about tax qualified plans such as
    the MSD Employee Savings and Security Plan and the
    Schering-Plough Employees  Savings Plan.

(1)    

Includes options to purchase
    shares of Company Common Stock and other rights under the
    following shareholder-approved plans: the Merck
    Sharp   Dohme 2001, 2004, 2007 and 2010 Incentive
    Stock Plans, the Merck   Co., Inc. 2001, 2006 and 2010
    Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plans, and the
    Merck   Co., Inc. Schering-Plough 1997, 2002 and 2006
    Stock Incentive Plans.   

(2)    

Excludes approximately
    11,714,532 shares of restricted stock units and 4,999,543
    performance share units (assuming maximum payouts) under the
    Merck Sharp   Dohme 2004, 2007 and 2010 Incentive
    Stock Plans and 8,723,388 shares of restricted stock units
    and 129,216 performance share units (excluding accrued
    dividends) under the Merck   Co., Inc. Schering-Plough
    2006 Stock Incentive Plan. Also excludes 404,824 shares of
    phantom stock deferred under the MSD Deferral Program.   

(3)    

The table does not include
    information for equity compensation plans and options and other
    warrants and rights assumed by the Company in connection with
    mergers and acquisitions and pursuant to which there remain
    outstanding options or other warrants or rights (collectively,
     Assumed Plans ), which include the Rosetta
    Inpharmatics, Inc. 1997 and 2000 Employee Stock Option Plans. A
    total of 18,554 shares of Merck Common Stock may be
    purchased under the Assumed Plans, at a weighted average
    exercise price of $52.51. No further grants may be made under
    any Assumed Plans.   

43

Performance
    Graph  

The following graph assumes a $100 investment on
    December 31, 2005, and reinvestment of all dividends, in
    each of the Company s Common Shares, the S P 500
    Index, and a composite peer group of the major
     U.S.-based 
    pharmaceutical companies, which are: Abbott Laboratories,
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Johnson   Johnson, Eli
    Lilly and Company, and Pfizer Inc.

Comparison
    of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return* 
       Merck  
    Co., Inc., Composite Peer Group and S P 500 Index

*    

The Performance Graph reflects
    Schering-Plough s stock performance from December 31,
    2005 through the close of the Merger and New Merck s stock
    performance from November 3, 2009 through December 31,
    2010. Assumes the cash component of the merger consideration was
    reinvested in New Merck stock at the closing price on
    November 3, 2009.   

**    

Compound Annual Growth
    Rate   

***    

On October 15, 2009, Wyeth
    and Pfizer Inc. completed their previously announced merger (the
     Pfizer/Wyeth Merger ) where Wyeth became a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer Inc. As discussed, on
    November 3, 2009, Old Merck and Schering-Plough completed
    the Merger (together with the Pfizer/Wyeth Merger, the
     Transactions ) in which Old Merck (subsequently
    renamed Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.) became a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of Schering-Plough (subsequently renamed
    Merck   Co., Inc.). As a result of the Transactions,
    Wyeth and Old Merck no longer exist as publicly traded entities
    and ceased all trading of their common stock as of the close of
    business on their respective merger dates. Wyeth and Old Merck
    have been permanently removed from the peer group
    index.   

44

Item 6.    

Selected
    Financial Data.  

The following selected financial data should be read in
    conjunction with Item 7.  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  and consolidated financial statements and notes
    thereto contained in Item 8.  Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data  of this report.

Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries 
     ($ in millions except per share amounts) 

(1)      
 
           Amounts for 2010 include the
    amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, in-process
    research and development impairment charges of $2.4 billion
    reflected in research and development expenses, the impact of
    restructuring actions, a reserve related to
       Vioxx , the gain
    recognized on AstraZeneca s exercise of its option to
    acquire certain assets from the Company and the favorable impact
    of certain tax items. In addition, results reflect the
    unfavorable effects of the implementation of certain provisions
    of U.S. health care reform legislation which was enacted
    during 2010. 

(2)      
 
           Amounts for 2009 include the
    impact of the merger with Schering-Plough Corporation on
    November 3, 2009, including the recognition of a gain
    representing the fair value
     step-up  of
    Merck s previously held interest in the
    Merck/Schering-Plough partnership as a result of obtaining a
    controlling interest and the amortization of purchase accounting
    adjustments recorded in the post-Merger period. Also included in
    2009, is a gain on the sale of Merck s interest in Merial
    Limited, the favorable impact of certain tax items, the impact
    of restructuring actions and additional legal defense
    costs.  

(3)      
 
           Amounts for 2008 include a gain
    on distribution from AstraZeneca LP, a gain related to the sale
    of the remaining worldwide rights to
       Aggrastat , the
    favorable impact of certain tax items, the impact of
    restructuring actions, additional legal defense costs and an
    expense for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation. 

(4)      
 
           Amounts for 2007 include the
    impact of the
    U.S.    Vioxx
     Settlement Agreement charge, restructuring actions, a civil
    governmental investigations charge, an insurance arbitration
    settlement gain, in-process research and development expense
    resulting from an acquisition, additional  Vioxx  legal
    defense costs, gains on sales of assets and product
    divestitures, as well as a net gain on the settlements of
    certain patent disputes. 

(5)      
 
           Amounts for 2006 include the
    impact of restructuring actions, in-process research and
    development expenses resulting from acquisitions and additional
       Vioxx  legal defense
    costs. 

(6)      
 
           Amount reflects dividends paid
    to common shareholders of Old Merck. In addition, approximately
    $144 million of dividends were paid subsequent to the
    merger with Schering-Plough, and $431 million were paid
    prior to the merger, relating to common stock and preferred
    stock dividends declared by Schering-Plough in 2009.  

45

Item 7.    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.  

Description
    of Merck s Business  

The Company is a global health care company that delivers
    innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines,
    vaccines, biologic therapies, animal health, and consumer care
    products, which it markets directly and through its joint
    ventures. The Company s operations are principally managed
    on a products basis and are comprised of four operating
    segments, which are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Consumer
    Care and Alliances segments, and one reportable segment, which
    is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment
    includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products
    marketed either directly by the Company or through joint
    ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of
    therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by
    prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company
    sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to
    drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies
    and managed health care providers such as health maintenance
    organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions.
    Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and
    adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The
    Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to
    physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government
    entities. The Company also has animal health operations that
    discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health
    products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to
    veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Additionally,
    the Company has consumer care operations that develop,
    manufacture and market
     over-the-counter, 
    foot care and sun care products, which are sold through
    wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser
    outlets in the United States and Canada.

On November 3, 2009, Merck   Co., Inc. ( Old
    Merck ) and Schering-Plough Corporation
    ( Schering-Plough ) merged (the  Merger ).
    In the Merger, Schering-Plough acquired all of the shares of Old
    Merck, which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schering-Plough
    and was renamed Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.
     Schering-Plough 
    continued as the surviving public company and was renamed
    Merck   Co., Inc. ( New Merck  or the
     Company ). However, for accounting purposes only, the
    Merger was treated as an acquisition with Old Merck considered
    the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the accompanying financial
    statements reflect Old Merck s stand-alone operations as
    they existed prior to the completion of the Merger. The results
    of Schering-Plough s business have been included in New
    Merck s financial statements only for periods subsequent to
    the completion of the Merger. Therefore, New Merck s
    financial results for 2009 do not reflect a full year of legacy
    Schering-Plough operations. References in this report and in the
    accompanying financial statements to  Merck  for
    periods prior to the Merger refer to Old Merck and for periods
    after the completion of the Merger to New Merck.

Overview  

During 2010, the Company made progress driving revenue growth
    for key products, expanding its global reach including within
    emerging markets, improving its cost structure, making strategic
    investments in its business and advancing its late-stage
    pipeline, while continuing the task of integrating the legacy
    companies post-Merger.

Sales increased to $46.0 billion in 2010 driven largely by
    incremental revenue resulting from the inclusion of a full year
    of results for legacy Schering-Plough products such as
     Remicade,  a treatment for inflammatory diseases,
     Nasonex , an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the
    treatment of nasal allergy symptoms,  Temodar,  a treatment
    for certain types of brain tumors,  PegIntron  for treating
    chronic hepatitis C and  Clarinex , a non-sedating
    antihistamine, as well as by the inclusion of a full year of
    results for  Zetia  and  Vytorin , cholesterol
    modifying medicines. Prior to the Merger, substantially all
    sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  were recognized by the
    Merck/Schering-Plough Partnership (the  MSP
    Partnership ) and the results of Old Merck s interest
    in the MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity income from
    affiliates . As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership
    is wholly-owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these
    products are now reflected in  Sales . Additionally, the
    Company recognized a full year of sales in 2010 from legacy
    Schering-Plough animal health and consumer care products. Sales
    for 2009 only include revenue from legacy Schering-Plough and
    MSP Partnership products for the post-Merger period through
    December 31, 2009. Also contributing to the sales increase
    was growth in  Januvia  and  Janumet  for the
    treatment of type 2 diabetes,  Isentress , an
    antiretroviral therapy for use in combination therapy for the
    treatment of HIV-1 infection in adult patients, and
     Singulair , a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment
    of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis. These
    increases were partially offset by lower sales of  Cozaar  

46

and  Hyzaar  for the treatment of hypertension, which lost
    patent protection in the United States in April 2010 and in a
    number of major European markets in March 2010. Revenue was also
    negatively affected by lower sales of  Fosamax  and
     Fosamax Plus D  for the treatment and, in the case of
     Fosamax , prevention of osteoporosis, which have lost
    market exclusivity in the United States and in several major
    European markets, and lower revenue from the Company s
    relationship with AstraZeneca LP ( AZLP ), as well as
    by lower sales of  Gardasil , a vaccine to help prevent
    cervical, vulvar, vaginal and anal cancers, precancerous or
    dysplastic lesions, and genital warts caused by the human
    papillomavirus ( HPV ) types contained in the vaccine,
    and lower sales of  Zocor,  the Company s statin for
    modifying cholesterol. In addition, the implementation of
    certain provisions of U.S. health care reform legislation
    during 2010 resulted in increased Medicaid rebates and other
    impacts that reduced revenues by approximately
    $170 million. Additionally, many countries in the European
    Union ( EU ) have undertaken austerity measures aimed
    at reducing costs in health care and have implemented pricing
    actions that negatively impacted sales in 2010.

Sales of  Remicade  and a follow-on product,
     Simponi , were $2.8 billion in the aggregate in 2010.
    The Company is involved in an arbitration with Centocor Ortho
    Biotech, Inc. ( Centocor ), a subsidiary of
    Johnson   Johnson, in which Centocor is seeking to
    terminate the Company s rights to continue to market
     Remicade  and  Simponi . The arbitration hearing has
    concluded and the Company is awaiting the arbitration
    panel s decision. See Note 12 to the consolidated
    financial statements. An unfavorable outcome in the arbitration
    would have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    financial position, liquidity and results of operations.

Since the Merger, the Company has continued the advancement of
    drug candidates through its pipeline. During 2010, the
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA )
    approved  Dulera  Inhalation Aerosol, a new fixed-dose
    combination asthma treatment for patients 12 years of age
    and older. In addition, the intravenous formulation of
     Brinavess , for which Merck has exclusive marketing rights
    outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico, was granted
    marketing approval in the EU for the rapid conversion of recent
    onset atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm in adults: for
    non-surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of seven days or
    less and for post-cardiac surgery patients with atrial
    fibrillation of three days or less.

Also during 2010, the FDA approved a new indication for
     Gardasil  for the prevention of anal cancer caused by HPV
    types 16 and 18 and for the prevention of anal intraepithelial
    neoplasia grades 1, 2 and 3 (anal dysplasias and precancerous
    lesions) caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18, in males and
    females 9 through 26 years of age. Additionally, in
    September 2010, two supplemental New Drug Applications
    ( sNDA ) for  Saphris  for the treatment of
    schizophrenia in adults and acute treatment of bipolar I
    disorder in adults were approved in the United States to
    expand the product s indications. Also during 2010, the
    Company entered into a co-promotion agreement for the
    commercialization of  Daxas , a treatment for symptomatic
    chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, which the Company
    launched in certain European markets.

The Company currently has three candidates under review with the
    FDA: boceprevir, an investigational oral hepatitis C
    protease inhibitor; MK-0431A XR, the Company s
    investigational extended-release formulation of  Janumet
     and MK-431D, an investigational combination of  Januvia
     and  Zocor  for the treatment of diabetes and
    dyslipidemia. In addition, SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, an oral
    contraceptive that combines a selective progestin with 17-beta
    estradiol, is currently under review in the EU. Additionally,
    MK-3009, Cubicin daptomycin for injection, is currently under
    review in Japan where the Company has marketing rights. Also,
    the Company currently has 19 candidates in Phase III
    development and anticipates making a New Drug Application
    ( NDA ) with respect to certain of these candidates in
    2011 including MK-8669, ridaforolimus, a novel mTOR inhibitor
    being evaluated for the treatment of metastatic soft tissue and
    bone sarcomas; MK-2452,  Saflutan  (tafluprost), for the
    reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate
    patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular
    hypertension; MK-653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin,
    which is an investigational medication for the treatment of
    dyslipidemia; and MK-0974, telcagepant, the Company s
    investigational medication for acute treatment of migraine.
    Another Phase III candidate is vorapaxar with respect to
    which the Company was recently informed by the chairman of one
    of the studies to discontinue study drug and that investigators
    were to begin to close out the study in a timely and orderly
    fashion. The Company recorded a material impairment charge on
    the related intangible asset. See  Research and
    Development  below.

The Company continues to make progress in achieving cost savings
    across all areas, including from consolidation in both sales and
    marketing and research and development, the application of the
    Company s lean

47

manufacturing and sourcing strategies to the expanded
    operations, and the full integration of the MSP Partnership.
    These savings result from various actions, including the Merger
    Restructuring Program discussed below, previously announced
    ongoing cost reduction activities at both legacy companies, as
    well as from non-restructuring-related activities such as the
    Company s procurement savings initiative. During 2010, the
    Company realized more than $2.0 billion in net cost savings
    from all of these activities.

In February 2010, the Company commenced actions under a global
    restructuring program (the  Merger Restructuring
    Program ) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy
    Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger
    Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure
    of the combined company. Additional actions under the program
    continued during 2010. As part of the restructuring actions
    taken thus far under the Merger Restructuring Program, the
    Company expects to reduce its total workforce measured at the
    time of the Merger by approximately 17% across the Company
    worldwide. In addition, the Company has eliminated over 2,500
    positions which were vacant at the time of the Merger. These
    workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of
    duplicative positions in sales, administrative and headquarters
    organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain
    manufacturing and research and development sites and the
    consolidation of office facilities. The Company will continue to
    pursue productivity efficiencies and evaluate its manufacturing
    supply chain capabilities on an ongoing basis which may result
    in future restructuring actions. During this period, the Company
    also will continue to hire new employees in strategic growth
    areas of the business as necessary. In connection with the
    Merger Restructuring Program, separation costs under the
    Company s existing severance programs worldwide were
    recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 to the extent such costs
    were probable and reasonably estimable. The Company commenced
    accruing costs related to enhanced termination benefits offered
    to employees under the Merger Restructuring Program in the first
    quarter of 2010 when the necessary criteria were met. The
    Company recorded total pretax restructuring costs of
    $1.8 billion in 2010 and $1.5 billion in 2009 related
    to this program. The restructuring actions taken thus far under
    the Merger Restructuring Program are expected to be
    substantially completed by the end of 2012, with the exception
    of certain manufacturing facilities actions, with the total
    cumulative pretax costs estimated to be approximately
    $3.8 billion to $4.6 billion. The Company estimates
    that approximately two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs
    relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation
    expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs
    are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation
    of facilities to be closed or divested. The Company expects the
    restructuring actions taken thus far under the Merger
    Restructuring Program to result in annual savings in 2012 of
    approximately $2.7 billion to $3.1 billion.

In March 2010, the United States enacted health care reform
    legislation. Important market reforms began during 2010 and will
    continue through full implementation in 2014. During 2010, Merck
    incurred costs as a result of the legislation, including
    increased Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced
    revenues. The Company also recorded a charge in 2010 associated
    with this legislation that changed tax law to require taxation
    of the prescription drug subsidy of the Company s retiree
    health benefit plans for which companies receive reimbursement
    under Medicare Part D. Additional provisions of the
    legislation will come into effect in 2011, including the
    assessment of an annual health care reform fee on all branded
    prescription drug manufacturers and importers and the
    requirement that drug manufacturers pay a 50% discount on
    Medicare Part D utilization incurred by beneficiaries when
    they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the
    so-called  donut hole ). These new provisions will
    decrease revenues and increase costs.

Earnings per common share ( EPS ) assuming dilution
    for 2010 were $0.28, which reflect a net unfavorable impact
    resulting from the amortization of purchase accounting
    adjustments, in-process research and development
    ( IPR D ) impairment charges, including a charge
    related to the vorapaxar clinical development program,
    restructuring and merger-related costs, as well as a legal
    reserve relating to  Vioxx  (the   Vioxx
     Liability Reserve ) discussed below, partially offset
    by the gain recognized on AstraZeneca s exercise of its
    option to acquire certain assets from the Company.
    Non-GAAP EPS in 2010 were $3.42 excluding these items (see
     Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS  below).

In December 2010, Merck announced that its Board of Directors
    had elected Kenneth C. Frazier, then Merck s president, as
    chief executive officer and president, as well as a member of
    the board, effective January 1, 2011. Mr. Frazier
    succeeds Richard T. Clark, who will continue to serve as
    chairman of the board.

48

Competition
    and the Health Care Environment  

Competition  

The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the
    pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly
    regulated. The Company s competitors include other
    worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller
    research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and
    generic drug and consumer health care manufacturers. The
    Company s operations may be affected by technological
    advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted
    to competitors, competitive combination products, new products
    of competitors, the generic availability of competitors 
    branded products, new information from clinical trials of
    marketed products or post-marketing surveillance and generic
    competition as the Company s products mature. In addition,
    patent positions are increasingly being challenged by
    competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse
    result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of
    products or negatively affect sales of existing products and
    could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with
    respect to certain products. Competitive pressures have
    intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect
    on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot
    be predicted.

Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for
    technological innovations and the ability to market these
    innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on
    research and development, the Company is well positioned to
    compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional
    resources to meet market challenges include quality control,
    flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient
    distribution system and a strong technical information service.
    The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products
    through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses,
    and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further
    address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction
    of new products and processes by competitors may result in price
    reductions and product displacements, even for products
    protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds
    available to treat a particular disease typically increases over
    time and can result in slowed sales growth for the
    Company s products in that therapeutic category.

Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to
    exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In 2010,
    this pressure was particularly intense in several European
    countries which implemented austerity measures aimed at reducing
    costs in areas such as health care. In the United States,
    federal and state governments for many years also have pursued
    methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they
    pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay
    specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to
    provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain
    Public Health Service entities and  disproportionate
    share  hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria).
    Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the
    U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
    ( CDC ) funds and purchases recommended pediatric
    vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of
    Medicaid-eligible, uninsured, Native American and certain
    underinsured children. Merck was awarded a CDC contract in 2010
    for the supply of pediatric vaccines for the Vaccines for
    Children program.

Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health
    care reform legislation in 2010. Various insurance market
    reforms began last year and will continue through full
    implementation in 2014. The new law is expected to expand access
    to health care to more than 32 million Americans by the end
    of the decade that did not previously have regular access to
    health care. With respect to the effect of the law on the
    pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid
    rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid
    managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities
    eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law
    also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% discount
    on Medicare Part D utilization by beneficiaries when they
    are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the
    so-called  donut hole ). Also, beginning in 2011,
    pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to pay an annual
    health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee, which
    will be $2.5 billion in 2011, will be assessed on each
    company in proportion to its share of sales to certain
    government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.

Although not included in the health care reform law, Congress
    has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to
    increase the government s role in pharmaceutical pricing in
    the Medicare program. These proposals may include removing the
    current legal prohibition against the Secretary of the Health
    and Human Services intervening in price negotiations between
    Medicare drug benefit program plans and pharmaceutical

49

companies. They may also include mandating the payment of
    rebates for some or all of the pharmaceutical utilization in
    Medicare drug benefit plans. In addition, Congress may again
    consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the
    importation of medicines from other countries.

The full impact of U.S. health care reform, as well as
    continuing budget pressures on governments around the world,
    cannot be predicted at this time.

In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company makes a
    continuing effort to demonstrate that its medicines provide
    value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The
    Company works in markets with historically low rates of
    government spending on health care to encourage those
    governments to increase their investments and thereby improve
    their citizens  access to appropriate health care,
    including medicines.

In the animal health business, there is intense competition
    which is affected by several factors including regulatory and
    legislative issues, scientific and technological advances,
    product innovation, the quality and price of the Company s
    products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent
    introduction of generic products by competitors.

The Company s consumer care operations face competition
    from other consumer health care businesses as well as retailers
    who carry their own private label brands. The Company s
    competitive position is affected by several factors, including
    regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological
    advances, the quality and price of the Company s products,
    promotional efforts and the growth of lower cost private label
    brands.

Operating conditions have become more challenging under the
    global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost
    containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of
    these and other factors on the Company s business, the
    Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and
    improve the organization and its business practices to better
    meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to
    respond to the evolving health care environment and market
    forces.

Government
    Regulation  

The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by
    regional, country, state and local agencies around the world.
    Governmental regulation and legislation tends to focus on
    standards and processes for determining drug safety and
    effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement,
    especially related to the pricing of products.

Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which
    administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of
    prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA
    requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and
    resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to
    market in the United States. U.S. health care reform
    legislation which passed in 2010 with a full implementation date
    of 2014, significantly expands access to health care, but also
    contains a number of provisions imposing new obligations on the
    pharmaceutical industry, including, for example, an increase in
    the mandated rebate under the Medicaid program and a new
    discount requirement in the Medicare Part D program.

The EU has adopted Directives and other legislation concerning
    the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale
    distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products
    for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the
    EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional
    regulations by the EU member states. The Company s
    policies and procedures are already consistent with the
    substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that
    they will not have any material effect on the Company s
    business.

In January 2008, the European Commission ( EC )
    launched a sector inquiry in the pharmaceutical industry under
    the rules of EU competition law. A sector inquiry allows the EC
    to gather information about the general operation of market
    competition and is not an investigation into suspected
    anti-competitive behavior of specific firms. As part of this
    inquiry, Old Merck s offices in Germany were inspected by
    the authorities beginning in January 2008. The preliminary
    report of the EC was issued in November 2008, and following the
    public consultation period, the final report was issued in July
    2009. The final report confirmed that there has been a decline
    in the number of novel medicines reaching the market and
    instances of delayed market entry of generic medicines and
    discussed industry practices that may have contributed to these
    phenomena. Among other things, the final

50

report expressed concern over settlements of patent disputes
    between originator and generic companies and suggested that the
    EC should monitor any anti-competitive effects. While the EC has
    issued further inquiries with respect to the subject of the
    investigation, including to the Company, the EC has not alleged
    that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have engaged in any
    unlawful practices.

The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct
    its operations, including launching new drugs into the market,
    in this regulatory environment.

Access to
    Medicines  

As a global health care company, Merck s primary role is to
    discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The
    Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in
    helping to improve access to its products around the world. The
    Company s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging. For
    example, the Company has been recognized for pricing many of its
    products through a differential pricing framework, taking into
    consideration such factors as a country s level of economic
    development and public health need.

Building on the Company s own efforts, Merck has undertaken
    collaborations with many stakeholders to improve access to
    medicines and enhance the quality of life for people around the
    world.

For example, in 2010, through a partnership of Merck, the
    Government of Bhutan, and the Australian Cervical Cancer
    Foundation, Bhutan became the first low-income country in the
    world to successfully implement a national HPV vaccination
    program. Under this program, Merck is providing  Gardasil
     free of charge for the first year of the program and will
    provide  Gardasil  at the Company s access price for
    five more years.

Also in 2010, Merck worked with its partner, the Wellcome Trust,
    to further develop the Hillemann Laboratories which was
    established in September 2009. This initiative will focus on
    developing affordable vaccines to prevent diseases that commonly
    affect low-income countries.

Merck has also in the past provided funds to The Merck Company
    Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered
    with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global
    health. One of these partnerships is The African Comprehensive
    HIV/AIDS Partnership in Botswana, a collaboration with the
    government of Botswana and the Bill   Melinda Gates
    Foundation, that was renewed in 2010, and supports
    Botswana s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and
    sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and
    support.

Privacy
    and Data Protection  

The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data
    protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and
    regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues
    to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy
    and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly
    the Company s business, including recently enacted laws and
    regulations in the United States and internationally requiring
    notification to individuals and government authorities of
    security breaches involving certain categories of personal
    information.

Operating
    Results  

Sales  

Worldwide sales totaled $46.0 billion for 2010 compared
    with $27.4 billion in 2009. Foreign exchange favorably
    affected global sales performance by 1%. The revenue increase
    over 2009 was driven largely by incremental sales resulting from
    the inclusion of a full year of results for legacy
    Schering-Plough products such as  Remicade, Nasonex ,
     Temodar, PegIntron  and  Clarinex , as well as by the
    inclusion of a full year of results for  Zetia  and
     Vytorin . Prior to the Merger, substantially all sales of
     Zetia  and  Vytorin  were recognized by the MSP
    Partnership and the results of Old Merck s interest in the
    MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity income from
    affiliates . As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership
    is wholly-owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these
    products are now reflected in  Sales . Additionally, the
    Company recognized a full year of sales in 2010 from legacy
    Schering-Plough animal health and consumer care products. Sales
    for 2009 only include revenue from legacy Schering-Plough and
    MSP Partnership products for the post-Merger period through
    December 31, 2009. Also contributing to the sales increase
    was growth in  Januvia  and  Janumet, Isentress,  and
     Singulair . These increases

51

were partially offset by lower sales of  Cozaar  and
     Hyzaar  which lost patent protection in the United States
    in April 2010 and in a number of major European markets in March
    2010. Revenue was also negatively affected by lower sales of
     Fosamax  and  Fosamax Plus D , which have lost market
    exclusivity in the United States and in several major European
    markets, and lower revenue from the Company s relationship
    with AZLP, as well as by lower sales of  Gardasil  and
     Zocor . In addition, the implementation of certain
    provisions of U.S. health care reform legislation during
    2010 resulted in increased Medicaid rebates and other impacts
    that reduced revenues by approximately $170 million.

Domestic sales were $20.2 billion in 2010 compared with
    $14.4 billion in 2009. Foreign sales were
    $25.8 billion in 2010 compared with $13.0 billion in
    2009. The increases were driven primarily by incremental sales
    resulting from the inclusion of a full year of legacy
    Schering-Plough and MSP Partnership products in 2010. The
    domestic sales increase was also driven by higher sales of
     Januvia, Janumet, Singulair  and  Isentress . These
    increases were partially offset by lower sales of  Cozaar,
    Hyzaar, Fosamax  and  Fosamax Plus D, Gardasil  and
     RotaTeq , as well as by lower revenue from the
    Company s relationship with AZLP. Foreign sales growth
    reflects the strong performance of  Januvia, Janumet,
    Isentress  and  Singulair,  partially offset by lower
    sales of  Cozaar, Hyzaar, Fosamax  and  Fosamax Plus
    D . Foreign sales represented 56% of total sales in 2010.

While many of the Company s brands experienced positive
    growth trends in the EU during 2010, the environment in the EU
    and across Europe is now more challenging. Many countries have
    announced austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in areas
    such as health care. The implementation of pricing actions
    varies by country and many have announced measures to reduce
    prices of generic and patented drugs. While the Company is
    taking steps to mitigate the immediate impact in the EU, the
    austerity measures negatively affected the Company s
    revenue performance in 2010 and the Company anticipates they
    will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2011.

Worldwide sales totaled $27.4 billion for 2009, an increase
    of 15% compared with 2008. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected
    global sales performance by 2%. The revenue increase over 2008
    largely reflects incremental sales resulting from the inclusion
    of legacy Schering-Plough and MSP Partnership products for the
    post-Merger period in 2009. Also contributing to the sales
    increase was growth in  Januvia  and  Janumet, Isentress,
    Singulair, Varivax  and  Pneumovax . These increases
    were partially offset by lower sales of  Fosamax  and
     Fosamax Plus D ,  Gardasil ,  Cosopt  and
     Trusopt  (which lost U.S. market exclusivity in
    October 2008), and lower revenue from the Company s
    relationship with AZLP. Other products that experienced declines
    include  RotaTeq, Zocor  and  Primaxin .

52

Sales  (1)  

    of the Company s products were as follows:

(1)      
 
           Sales of legacy Schering-Plough
    products reflect results for 2010 and the post-Merger period in
    2009. In addition, prior to the Merger, substantially all sales
    of    Zetia  and
     Vytorin  were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the
    results of Old Merck s interest in the MSP Partnership were
    recorded in Equity income from affiliates.  As a result of the
    Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly-owned by the Company;
    accordingly, all sales of MSP Partnership products after the
    Merger are reflected in the table above.  Sales of  Zetia 
    and  Vytorin  in 2008 reflect Old Merck s sales of
    these products in Latin America which was not part of the MSP
    Partnership. 

(2)      
 
           These amounts do not reflect
    sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through
    the Company s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the
    results of which are reflected in Equity income from
    affiliates.  These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD.  

(3)      
 
           Other pharmaceutical primarily
    reflects sales of other human pharmaceutical products, including
    products within the franchises not listed separately.  

(4)      
 
           Reflects other non-reportable
    segments including Animal Health and Consumer Care, and revenue
    from the Company s relationship with AZLP primarily
    relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec.  Revenue from
    AZLP was $1.3 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion in 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.  

(5)      
 
           Other revenues are primarily
    comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, third-party
    manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or
    businesses and other supply sales not included in segment
    results.  

53

Pharmaceutical
    Segment Sales  

Bone,
    Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology  

Worldwide sales of  Singulair,  a
     once-a-day 
    oral medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and
    for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, grew 7%
    reaching $5.0 billion in 2010 reflecting price increases
    and positive performance in Japan. Global sales of  Singulair
     rose 7% to $4.7 billion in 2009 primarily driven by
    favorable pricing and strong performance in Japan and Asia
    Pacific.  Singulair  continues to be the number one
    prescribed product in the U.S. respiratory market.
    U.S. sales of  Singulair  were $3.2 billion in
    2010. The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for
     Singulair  expires in August 2012. The Company expects
    that within the two years following patent expiration, it will
    lose substantially all U.S. sales of  Singulair , with
    most of those declines coming in the first full year following
    patent expiration. In addition, the patent for  Singulair
     will expire in a number of major European markets in August
    2012 and the Company expects sales of  Singulair  in those
    markets will decline significantly thereafter (although the six
    month Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date in some
    markets to February 2013).

Sales of  Remicade,  a treatment for inflammatory diseases,
    were $2.7 billion in 2010 and $431 million for the
    post-Merger period in 2009.  Remicade  is marketed by the
    Company outside of the United States (except in Japan and
    certain other Asian markets). Products that compete with
     Remicade  have been launched over the past several years.
    In October 2009, the EC approved  Simponi , a once-monthly
    subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases. In
    January 2011,  Simponi  was approved in the EU for use in
    combination with methotrexate in adults with severe, active and
    progressive rheumatoid arthritis not previously treated with
    methotrexate and for the reduction in the rate of progression of
    joint damage as measured by X-ray in rheumatoid arthritis
    patients. The Company has launched  Simponi  in 18
    countries and launches in other international markets are
    planned. Sales of  Simponi  were $97 million in 2010.
    See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for a
    discussion of arbitration proceedings involving the
    Company s rights to market  Remicade  and
     Simponi .

Global sales of  Nasonex , an inhaled nasal corticosteroid
    for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, were
    $1.2 billion in 2010 and were $165 million for the
    post-Merger period in 2009.

Worldwide sales of  Fosamax  and  Fosamax Plus D
     (marketed as  Fosavance  throughout the EU and as
     Fosamac  in Japan) for the treatment and, in the case of
     Fosamax , prevention of osteoporosis, decreased 16% in
    2010 to $926 million and declined 29% in 2009 to
    $1.1 billion. These medicines have lost market exclusivity
    in the United States and have also lost market exclusivity in
    several major European markets. Accordingly, the Company is
    experiencing significant sales declines within the  Fosamax
     product franchise and the Company expects the declines to
    continue.

Global sales of  Clarinex  (marketed as  Aerius  in
    many countries outside the United States), a non-sedating
    antihistamine, were $659 million in 2010 and were
    $101 million for the post-Merger period in 2009.

Other products included in the Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and
    Dermatology franchise include among others,  Arcoxia,  for
    the treatment of arthritis and pain;  Proventil  inhalation
    aerosol for the relief of bronchospasm; and  Asmanex , an
    inhaled corticosteroid for asthma.

In June 2010, the FDA approved  Dulera  Inhalation Aerosol,
    a new fixed-dose combination asthma treatment for patients
    12 years of age and older.  Dulera  combines an
    inhaled corticosteroid with a long-acting
    beta 2 -agonist.

Cardiovascular  

Sales of  Zetia , a cholesterol absorption inhibitor also
    marketed as  Ezetrol  outside the United States, and
     Vytorin,  a combination product containing the active
    ingredients of both  Zetia  and  Zocor  marketed
    outside the United States as  Inegy , were
    $2.3 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, in 2010
    and were $403 million and $441 million, respectively,
    for the post-Merger period in 2009. Prior to the Merger,
    substantially all sales of these products were recognized by the
    MSP Partnership and the results of Old Merck s interest in
    the MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity income from
    affiliates . As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership
    is wholly-owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these
    products are now reflected in  Sales . Total sales of
     Zetia  and  Vytorin  

54

in 2009, including the sales recognized through the MSP
    Partnership, were $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion,
    respectively.

In November 2010, the Oxford University Clinical Trial Service
    Unit presented the results of the SHARP (Study of Heart and
    Renal Protection) study at the American Society of Nephrology
    meeting in which  Vytorin  10/20 mg reduced the
    incidence of first major vascular events   defined as
    non-fatal heart attacks or cardiac death, stroke or any
    revascularization procedure   by a highly
    statistically significant 16.1% compared to placebo. This was
    the pre-specified primary endpoint of the study. The SHARP study
    involved more than 9,000 patients who, on average, had
    advanced or end-stage chronic kidney disease. Merck plans to
    seek regulatory approvals for the use of  Vytorin  in
    patients with chronic kidney disease based on the results from
    the SHARP study in 2011.

IMPROVE-IT, a large cardiovascular outcomes study evaluating
     Zetia/Vytorin  in patients with acute coronary syndrome,
    is fully enrolled with approximately 18,000 patients.
    During 2010, a blinded interim efficacy analysis was conducted
    by the Data and Safety Monitoring Board ( DSMB ) for
    the trial when approximately 50% of the primary events had been
    accrued. The DSMB recommended continuing the trial with no
    changes in the study protocol. Another blinded interim efficacy
    analysis is planned by the DSMB when approximately 75% of the
    primary events have been accrued. The IMPROVE-IT trial is
    scheduled for completion in 2013.

Global sales of  Integrilin  Injection, a treatment for
    patients with acute coronary syndrome, which is sold by the
    Company in the United States and Canada, were $266 million
    in 2010 and were $46 million for the post-Merger period in
    2009.

In September 2010, the intravenous formulation of  Brinavess
     (vernakalant) was granted marketing approval in the EU,
    Iceland and Norway for the rapid conversion of recent onset
    atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm in adults: for non-surgery
    patients with atrial fibrillation of seven days or less and for
    post-cardiac surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of three
    days or less.  Brinavess  acts preferentially in the atria
    and is the first product in a new class of pharmacologic agents
    for cardioversion of atrial fibrillation to launch in the EU. In
    April 2009, Cardiome Pharma Corp. and Merck announced a
    collaboration and license agreement for the development and
    commercialization of vernakalant. The agreement provides Merck
    exclusive rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico
    to vernakalant intravenous formulation.

Diabetes
    and Obesity  

Global sales of  Januvia , Merck s dipeptidyl
    peptidase-4 ( DPP-4 ) inhibitor for the treatment of
    type 2 diabetes, were $2.4 billion in 2010,
    $1.9 billion in 2009 and $1.4 billion in 2008,
    reflecting continued growth both in the United States and
    internationally due in part to the launch of new indications. In
    addition, growth in 2010 reflects apparent safety concerns that
    limited sales of a competing product. DPP-4 inhibitors represent
    a class of prescription medications that improve blood sugar
    control in patients with type 2 diabetes by enhancing a natural
    body system called the incretin system, which helps to regulate
    glucose by affecting the beta cells and alpha cells in the
    pancreas.

Worldwide sales of  Janumet , Merck s oral
    antihyperglycemic agent that combines sitagliptin ( Januvia)
     with metformin in a single tablet to target all three key
    defects of type 2 diabetes, were $954 million in 2010,
    $658 million in 2009 and $351 million in 2008
    reflecting growth both in the United States and internationally
    due to ongoing launches in certain markets.

MK-0431A XR, the Company s investigational extended-release
    formulation of  Janumet , was accepted for standard review
    by the FDA in 2010. The Company is also moving forward as
    planned with regulatory filings in countries outside the United
    States. The extended-release formulation of  Janumet  is an
    investigational treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines
    sitagliptin with metformin extended release, a
    commonly-prescribed medication for type 2 diabetes, into a
    single tablet. This formulation is designed to provide a new
    treatment option for health care providers and patients who need
    two or more oral agents to help control their blood sugar with
    the convenience of once daily dosing.

Diversified
    Brands  

Merck s diversified brands are human health pharmaceutical
    products that are approaching the expiration of their marketing
    exclusivity or are no longer protected by patents in developed
    markets, but continue to be a core part of the Company s
    offering in other markets around the world.

55

Global sales of  Cozaar  and its companion agent  Hyzaar
     (a combination of  Cozaar  and hydrochlorothiazide) for
    the treatment of hypertension fell 41% in 2010 to
    $2.1 billion. The patents that provided U.S. market
    exclusivity for  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar  expired in April
    2010. In addition,  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar  lost patent
    protection in a number of major European markets in March 2010.
    Accordingly, the Company is experiencing a significant decline
    in  Cozaar/Hyzaar  worldwide sales and the Company expects
    such decline to continue. Global sales of  Cozaar  and
     Hyzaar  were $3.6 billion in 2009 which were
    comparable to sales in 2008 reflecting the unfavorable effect of
    foreign exchange, offset by strong performance of both products
    in the United States and of  Hyzaar  in Japan (marketed as
     Preminent ).

Other products contained in the Diversified Brands franchise
    include among others,  Zocor , a statin for modifying
    cholesterol;  Propecia , a product for the treatment of
    male pattern hair loss; prescription  Claritin  for the
    treatment of seasonal outdoor allergies and year-round indoor
    allergies;  Vasotec/Vaseretic  for hypertension
     and/or  heart
    failure;  Remeron , an antidepressant; and  Proscar,
     a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign
    prostate enlargement.  Remeron  lost market exclusivity in
    the United States in January 2010 and in certain markets in the
    EU in September 2010.

Infectious
    Disease  

Worldwide sales of  Isentress,  an HIV integrase inhibitor
    for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the
    treatment of HIV-1 infection in treatment-na ve and
    treatment-experienced adults, were $1.1 billion in 2010,
    $752 million in 2009 and $361 million in 2008. Sales
    growth in both periods reflects positive performance in the
    United States, as well as internationally, resulting from
    continued uptake since launch.  Isentress  works by
    inhibiting the insertion of HIV DNA into human DNA by the
    integrase enzyme. Inhibiting integrase from performing this
    essential function helps to limit the ability of the virus to
    replicate and infect new cells.

In November 2010, the Company reported initial results from the
    Phase III study investigating the efficacy and safety of a
    treatment regimen including  Isentress  tablets once daily
    in treatment-na ve adult patients infected with HIV-1. In
    the study, although the treatment regimen that included
     Isentress  once daily enabled more than 80% of patients to
    achieve viral suppression,  Isentress  once daily did not
    demonstrate non-inferiority to the treatment regimen that
    included  Isentress  twice daily. Based on the initial
    results and following the recommendation of an independent Data
    Monitoring Committee, Merck terminated the study.

Worldwide sales of  PegIntron  for treating chronic
    hepatitis C were $737 million in 2010 and were
    $149 million for the post-Merger period in 2009. In
    September 2010, the Company initiated a voluntary recall of
     PegIntron  single dose RediPen injection in the United
    States after consultation with the FDA, as well as other recalls
    globally, resulting in a reduction to revenue in 2010 of
    approximately $20 million representing estimated sales
    returns. In addition, the Company recognized a charge of
    approximately $40 million in  Materials and production
     primarily for inventory discard costs. The recall was
    conducted as a precautionary measure due to a third-party
    manufacturing issue that could have affected a small number of
    RediPens. The recall was specific to  PegIntron  RediPen
    and did not affect  PegIntron  vial products.

Sales of  Primaxin , an anti-bacterial product, decreased
    11% in 2010 to $610 million and declined 9% in 2009 to
    $689 million. These results reflect competitive pressures
    and in 2009 also reflect supply constraints. Patents on
     Primaxin  have expired worldwide and multiple generics
    have been approved in Europe. Accordingly, the Company is
    experiencing a decline in sales of this product and the Company
    expects the decline to continue.

Other products contained in the Infectious Diseases franchise
    include among others,  Cancidas , an anti-fungal product;
     Invanz  for the treatment of certain infections;
     Avelox,  a fluoroquinolone antibiotic for the treatment of
    certain respiratory and skin infections;  Rebetol  for use
    in combination with  PegIntron  for treating chronic
    hepatitis C; and  Crixivan  and  Stocrin ,
    antiretroviral therapies for the treatment of HIV infection. The
    compound patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for
     Crixivan  expires in 2012.

Neurosciences
    and Ophthalmology  

Global sales of  Maxalt , Merck s tablet for the acute
    treatment of migraine, declined 4% in 2010 to $550 million
    reflecting the generic availability of a competing product.
    Sales of  Maxalt  grew 9% in 2009 to $575 million. The
    compound patent that provides market exclusivity for
     Maxalt  in the United States expires in

56

June 2012 (although the six month Pediatric Market
    Exclusivity may extend this date to December 2012). In addition,
    the patent for  Maxalt  will expire in a number of major
    European markets in 2013. The Company anticipates that sales in
    the United States and in these European markets will decline
    significantly after these patent expiries.

Worldwide sales of ophthalmic products  Cosopt  and
     Trusopt  declined 4% in 2010 to $484 million and fell
    36% to $503 million in 2009. The patent that provided
    U.S. market exclusivity for  Cosopt  and  Trusopt
     expired in October 2008.  Trusopt  has also lost market
    exclusivity in a number of major European markets. The patent
    for  Cosopt  will expire in a number of major European
    markets in March 2013 and the Company expects sales in those
    markets to decline significantly thereafter.

In August 2009, the FDA approved  Saphris  (asenapine) for
    the acute treatment of schizophrenia in adults and for the acute
    treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I
    disorder with or without psychotic features in adults. In
    September 2010, two sNDAs for  Saphris  were approved in
    the United States to expand the product s indications to
    the treatment of schizophrenia in adults, as monotherapy for the
    acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with
    bipolar I disorder in adults, and as adjunctive therapy with
    either lithium or valproate for the acute treatment of manic or
    mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults. In
    September 2010, asenapine, to be sold under the brand name
     Sycrest , received marketing approval in the EU for the
    treatment of moderate to severe manic episodes associated with
    bipolar I disorder in adults; the marketing approval did not
    include an indication for schizophrenia. The marketing approval
    applies to all EU member states. In October 2010, Merck and H.
    Lundbeck A/S ( Lundbeck ) announced a worldwide
    commercialization agreement for  Sycrest  sublingual
    tablets (5 mg, 10 mg). Under the terms of the
    agreement, Lundbeck paid a fee and will make product supply
    payments in exchange for exclusive commercial rights to
     Sycrest  in all markets outside the United States, China
    and Japan. Merck will retain exclusive commercial rights to
    asenapine in the United States, China and Japan. Concurrently,
    Merck is continuing to pursue regulatory approval for asenapine
    in other parts of the world.

Merck continues to focus on building the brand awareness of
     Saphris  in the United States. Merck launched a black
    cherry flavor of the sublingual tablet to provide an additional
    taste option. Merck continues to monitor and assess
     Saphris/Sycrest  and the related intangible asset. If
    increasing the brand awareness, the additional flavor option, or
    Lundbeck s launch of the product in the EU is not
    successful, the Company may take a non-cash impairment charge
    with respect to  Saphris/Sycrest , and such charge could be
    material.

Bridion,  for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants
    during surgery, is currently approved in more than 60 countries
    and has launched in more than 40 countries outside of the United
    States.  Bridion  is in Phase III development in the
    United States. Sales of  Bridion  were $103 million in
    2010.

The Neurosciences and Ophthalmology franchise also includes the
    products  Subutex/Suboxone  for the treatment of opiate
    addiction. In March 2010, Merck sold the rights to
     Subutex/Suboxone  in nearly all markets back to Reckitt
    Benckiser Group PLC ( Reckitt ). The rights to the
    products in most major markets reverted to Reckitt on
    July 1, 2010; the remainder will revert to Reckitt during
    2011. Sales for  Subutex/Suboxone  were $111 million
    in 2010.

Oncology  

Sales of  Temodar  (marketed as  Temodal  outside the
    United States) ,  a treatment for certain types of brain
    tumors, were $1.1 billion during 2010 and were
    $188 million for the post-Merger period in 2009. In
    November 2010, Merck announced that a federal appellate court
    ruled in its favor in a  Temodar  patent infringement suit
    against Barr Laboratories ( Barr ), an affiliate of
    Teva Pharmaceuticals ( Teva ). The appellate court
    rejected Barr s arguments and reversed a lower court ruling
    that the U.S. patent was unenforceable. Teva had been
    seeking FDA approval to sell a generic version of
     Temodar . In connection with Teva s prior agreement
    not to launch during the appeal, Merck agreed that it will not
    object to Teva s launch of a generic version of  Temodar
     in August 2013. The U.S. patent and exclusivity periods
    otherwise will expire on February 2014.  Temodar  lost
    patent exclusivity in the EU in 2009 and generic products are
    being marketed.

Global sales of  Emend , a treatment for
    chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, grew 19% in 2010 to
    $378 million driven by increases in the United States and
    due to the launch in Japan.  Emend  sales increased 20% to
    $317 million in 2009.

57

Other products in the Oncology franchise include among others,
     Caelyx  for the treatment of ovarian cancer, metastatic
    breast cancer and Kaposi s sarcoma; and  Intron A  for
    treating melanoma. Marketing rights for  Caelyx  reverted
    to Johnson   Johnson on December 31, 2010. Sales
    of  Caelyx  were $284 million in 2010.

Vaccines  

The following discussion of vaccines does not include sales of
    vaccines sold in most major European markets through Sanofi
    Pasteur MSD ( SPMSD ), the Company s joint
    venture with Sanofi Pasteur, the results of which are reflected
    in  Equity income from affiliates  (see  Selected
    Joint Venture and Affiliate Information  below). Supply
    sales to SPMSD, however, are included.

Worldwide sales of  Gardasil  recorded by Merck declined
    12% to $988 million in 2010 and decreased 20% to
    $1.1 billion in 2009.  Gardasil,  the world s
    top-selling HPV vaccine, is indicated for girls and women 9
    through 26 years of age for the prevention of cervical,
    vulvar and vaginal cancers caused by HPV types 16 and 18,
    precancerous or dysplastic lesions caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16
    and 18, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11.
     Gardasil  is also approved in the United States for use in
    boys and men ages 9 through 26 years of age for the
    prevention of genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11. In
    December 2010, the FDA approved a new indication for  Gardasil
     for the prevention of anal cancer caused by HPV types 16 and
    18 and for the prevention of anal intraepithelial neoplasia
    grades 1, 2 and 3 (anal dysplasias and precancerous lesions)
    caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18, in males and females 9
    through 26 years of age. Sales performance in 2010 and 2009
    was driven largely by declines in the United States, as well as
    in Australia during 2010, which continue to be affected by the
    saturation of the 13 to 18 year-old female cohort. Sales in
    2009 include $51 million of revenue as a result of
    government purchases for the CDC s Strategic National
    Stockpile. The Company is a party to certain third party license
    agreements with respect to  Gardasil  (including a
    cross-license and settlement agreement with GlaxoSmithKline). As
    a result of these agreements, the Company pays royalties on
    worldwide  Gardasil  sales of 21% to 27% which vary by
    country and are included in  Materials and production
     costs.

In January 2009, the FDA issued a second complete response
    letter regarding the sBLA for the use of  Gardasil  in
    women ages 27 through 45. The FDA completed its review of
    the response that Old Merck provided in July 2008 to the
    FDA s first complete response letter issued in June 2008
    and recommended that Old Merck submit additional data when the
    48 month study has been completed. Merck provided a
    response to the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2009. Discussions
    continue with the FDA to determine how adult women study data
    may be included in the prescribing information for
     Gardasil . The complete response letter does not affect
    current indications for  Gardasil  in females ages 9
    through 26.

Global sales of  RotaTeq,  a vaccine to help protect
    against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children,
    recorded by Merck declined 1% in 2010 to $519 million.
    Sales during 2010 benefited modestly from a temporary competitor
    supply issue. Sales declined 21% in 2009 to $522 million
    reflecting competitive pressures.

In recent years the Company has experienced difficulties in
    producing its varicella zoster virus
    ( VZV )-containing vaccines. These difficulties have
    resulted in supply constraints for  ProQuad ,  Varivax
     and  Zostavax . The Company is manufacturing bulk
    varicella and is producing doses of  Varivax  and
     Zostavax .

A limited quantity of  ProQuad , a pediatric combination
    vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and
    varicella, one of the VZV-containing vaccines, became available
    in the United States for ordering in the second quarter of 2010.
    Actual market demand will dictate how long supply will last.
    Sales as recorded by Merck for  ProQuad  were
    $134 million in 2010 and $9 million in 2008.
     ProQuad  was not available for ordering in 2009 due to
    supply constraints.

Merck s sales of  Varivax,  a vaccine to help prevent
    chickenpox (varicella), were $929 million in 2010,
    $1.0 billion in 2009 and $925 million in 2008. Sales
    for 2010 and 2009 reflect $48 million and $64 million,
    respectively, of revenue as a result of government purchases for
    the CDC s Strategic National Stockpile. Merck s sales
    of  M-M-R  II, a vaccine to help protect against measles,
    mumps and rubella, were $315 million in 2010,
    $331 million in 2009 and $334 million in 2008. Sales
    of  Varivax  and  M-M-R  II were affected by the
    unavailability of  ProQuad  as noted above.

58

Sales of  Zostavax,  a vaccine to help prevent shingles
    (herpes zoster), recorded by Merck were $243 million in
    2010, $277 million in 2009 and $312 million in 2008.
    Sales in all of these years were affected by supply issues.
    Customers experienced backorders for  Zostavax  during
    2010. Merck began filling backorders in December 2010. The
    Company expects to continue to release doses in 2011, but
    product backorders are expected to continue through at least the
    first quarter of 2011 and the Company anticipates sales in
    future quarters will be affected by availability of supply. Due
    to these supply constraints, no new international launches or
    immunization programs are currently planned for 2011.

During 2010, Merck filed a Supplemental Biologics License
    Application with the FDA for the use of  Zostavax  to
    prevent shingles in people 50 to 59 years of age.

Sales of  Pneumovax , a vaccine to help prevent
    pneumococcal disease, were $376 million for 2010,
    $346 million for 2009 and $249 million for 2008. The
    increase in 2009 as compared with 2008 was due to favorable
    pricing in the United States and higher demand associated with
    the flu pandemic.

In 2009, Old Merck entered into an exclusive agreement with CSL
    Biotherapies ( CSL ), a subsidiary of CSL Limited, to
    market and distribute  Afluria , CSL s seasonal
    influenza (flu) vaccine, in the United States, for the
    2010/2011-2015/2016 flu seasons. Under the terms of the
    agreement, the Company will assume responsibility for all
    aspects of commercialization of  Afluria  in the United
    States. CSL will supply  Afluria  to Merck and will retain
    responsibility for marketing the vaccine outside the United
    States.  Afluria  is indicated for the active immunization
    of persons age 6 months and older against influenza
    disease caused by influenza virus subtypes A and type B present
    in the vaccine. Sales of  Afluria  were $50 million in
    2010.

In January 2010,  PedvaxHIB  became fully available in the
    United States for routine vaccination as well as for booster
    dose
     catch-up 
    vaccination. The timing of availability outside the United
    States is dependent upon local regulatory requirements.
     Comvax  became available in the third quarter of 2010.

The pediatric/adolescent formulation of  Vaqta,  a vaccine
    against hepatitis A, is available. Merck s adult
    formulation will not be available in the United States until
    after 2011. Outside of the United States, the supply of  Vaqta
     is limited and availability will vary by region. The
    pediatric/adolescent formulation of  Recombivax HB , a
    vaccine against hepatitis B, is available and the dialysis
    formulation became available in the third quarter of 2010. The
    Company currently anticipates availability of the adult
    formulation of  Recombivax HB  in the first half of 2012.

In April 2010, Merck and MassBiologics ( MBL ) of the
    University of Massachusetts Medical School entered into an
    agreement that provides Merck with exclusive rights to market
    and distribute MBL s tetanus and diphtheria toxoids
    adsorbed ( Td ) vaccine in the United States, with the
    exception of Massachusetts, where MBL will continue distributing
    the vaccine. Merck began distributing the Td vaccine in June
    2010.

Women s
    Health and Endocrine  

Worldwide sales of  NuvaRing , a contraceptive product,
    were $559 million during 2010 and $88 million for the
    post-Merger period in 2009. Global sales of  Follistim AQ
     (marketed in most countries outside the United States
    as  Puregon ), a fertility treatment, were
    $528 million during 2010 and were $96 million for the
    post-Merger period in 2009.  Puregon  lost market
    exclusivity in the EU in August 2009.

Other products contained in the Women s Health and
    Endocrine franchise include among others,  Implanon , a
    single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant;  Cerazette , a
    progestin only oral contraceptive; and  Elonva , a
    fertility treatment.

The Company is currently experiencing difficulty manufacturing
    certain women s health products. The Company is working to
    resolve these issues.

Other  

In January 2010, the Company, AZLP and Teva (which acquired IVAX
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( IVAX )) entered into a
    settlement agreement to resolve patent litigation with respect
    to esomeprazole (Nexium) which provides that Teva/IVAX will not
    bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United
    States until May 27, 2014. During 2008, Old Merck and AZLP
    entered into a similar agreement with Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.

59

( Ranbaxy ) which provides that Ranbaxy will not bring
    its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States
    until May 27, 2014. The Company faces other challenges with
    respect to outstanding patent infringement matters for
    esomeprazole (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial
    statements).

AstraZeneca has an option to buy Old Merck s interest in
    Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012, and the Company
    believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise that
    option (see  Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate
    Information  below).

Animal
    Health  

Animal Health includes pharmaceutical and vaccine products for
    the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major
    farm and companion animal species. Animal Health sales are
    affected by intense competition and the frequent introduction of
    generic products. Global sales of Animal Health products totaled
    $2.9 billion during 2010 reflecting continued strong
    performance among cattle, poultry, companion animal and swine
    products. Global sales of Animal Health products totaled
    $494 million for the post-Merger period in 2009. During the
    first quarter of 2010, sanofi-aventis exercised its option to
    require the Company to seek to combine its Animal Health
    business with Merial Limited to form an animal health joint
    venture. The formation of the animal health joint venture is
    expected to be dilutive to the Company s earnings for the
    first 12 months after the transaction closes. (See
     Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information 
    below.)

Consumer
    Care  

Consumer Care products include
     over-the-counter, 
    foot care and sun care products such as
     Dr. Scholl s  foot care products;  Claritin
     non-drowsy antihistamines;  MiraLAX , a treatment for
    occasional constipation; and  Coppertone  sun care
    products. Global sales of Consumer Care products were
    $1.3 billion during 2010 reflecting strong performance of a
    number of key brands including  Dr. Scholl s  and
     Coppertone . Consumer Care product sales were
    $149 million for the post-Merger period in 2009. Consumer
    Care product sales are affected by competition, frequent
    competitive product introductions and consumer spending patterns.

In April 2010,  Zegerid OTC , an
     over-the-counter 
    option for treating frequent heartburn without prescription,
    became available in drug stores, grocery stores, mass
    merchandisers and club stores nationwide. The FDA approved
     Zegerid  in December 2009 for
     over-the-counter 
    use.

Costs
    Expenses and Other  

(1)    

Includes $2.4 billion of IPR D impairment charges
    in 2010 and restructuring costs in all years .

Materials
    and Production  

Materials and production costs were $18.4 billion in 2010,
    $9.0 billion in 2009 and $5.6 billion in 2008.
    Materials and production costs in 2010 and in the post-Merger
    period of 2009 include expenses related to the sale of legacy
    Schering-Plough and MSP Partnership products. Additionally,
    these costs were unfavorably affected by $4.6 billion and
    $0.8 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively, of expense for
    the amortization of intangible assets and $2.0 billion and
    $1.5 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively, of
    amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to
    Schering-Plough s inventories recognized in the Merger.
    Also included in materials and production costs in 2010, 2009
    and 2008 were $429 million, $115 million and
    $123 million, respectively, of costs associated with

60

restructuring activities, including accelerated depreciation and
    asset write-offs related to the planned sale or closure of
    manufacturing facilities. Separation costs associated with
    manufacturing-related headcount reductions have been incurred
    and are reflected in  Restructuring costs  as discussed
    below. (See Note 4 to the consolidated financial
    statements.)

Gross margin was 60.0% in 2010 compared with 67.1% in 2009 and
    76.6% in 2008. The amortization of intangible assets and
    purchase accounting adjustments to inventories recorded in 2010
    and 2009 as a result of the Merger and the restructuring charges
    reflected in all periods as noted above had an unfavorable
    impact of 15.2 percentage points in 2010,
    8.8 percentage points in 2009 and 0.5 percentage
    points in 2008.

Marketing
    and Administrative  

Marketing and administrative expenses were $13.2 billion in
    2010, $8.5 billion in 2009 and $7.4 billion in 2008.
    The increases were driven largely by the inclusion of expenses
    related to Schering-Plough activities during 2010 and in the
    post-Merger period of 2009. Additionally, $379 million of
    merger-related costs were recognized in 2010 consisting largely
    of integration costs, as well as costs incurred in conjunction
    with the potential formation of the animal health joint venture
    with sanofi-aventis, compared with $371 million of
    merger-related costs recognized in 2009 consisting largely of
    transaction costs directly related to the Merger (including
    advisory and legal fees) and integration costs. In addition,
    expenses for 2010 included $144 million of restructuring
    costs, primarily related to accelerated depreciation for
    facilities to be closed or divested. These increases were
    partially offset by initiatives to reduce the cost base.
    Separation costs associated with sales force reductions have
    been incurred and are reflected in  Restructuring costs  as
    discussed below. In addition, marketing and administrative
    expenses benefited from foreign exchange during 2009. Marketing
    and administrative expenses in 2010, 2009 and 2008 included
    $106 million, $75 million and $62 million,
    respectively, of additional reserves solely for future  Vioxx
     legal defense costs. (See Note 12 to the consolidated
    financial statements for more information on  Vioxx
     litigation related matters).

Research
    and Development  

Research and development expenses were $11.0 billion in
    2010, $5.8 billion in 2009 and $4.8 billion in 2008.
    The increases were due in part to the incremental expenditures
    associated with the inclusion of Schering-Plough s
    operations in 2010 and for the post-Merger period of 2009. In
    addition, during 2010, the Company recorded $2.4 billion of
    IPR D impairment charges. Of this amount, $1.7 billion
    related to the write-down of the intangible asset for vorapaxar
    resulting from developments in the clinical program for this
    compound (see  Research and Development  below). The
    remaining $763 million of IPR D impairment charges
    were attributable to compounds that were abandoned and
    determined to have either no alternative use or were returned to
    the respective licensor, as well as from expected delays in the
    launch timing or changes in the cash flow assumptions for
    certain compounds. The Company may recognize additional non-cash
    impairment charges in the future for the cancellation or delay
    of other legacy Schering-Plough pipeline programs that were
    measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the
    Merger and such charges could be material. Additionally,
    research and development expenses in 2010, 2009 and 2008 reflect
    $428 million, $232 million and $128 million,
    respectively, of costs associated with restructuring activities,
    including accelerated depreciation and asset abandonment costs.
    (See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.)
    Also, research and development expenses in 2010 include a
    $50 million payment related to the restructuring of
    Merck s agreement with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    ( ARIAD ) (see  Research and Development 
    below), while expenses in 2009 reflect upfront payments
    associated with external licensing activity. Research and
    development expenses in 2009 as compared with 2008 also reflect
    an increase in development spending in support of the continued
    advancement of the research pipeline, including investments in
    late-stage clinical trials. For segment reporting, research and
    development costs are unallocated.

Share-Based
    Compensation  

Total pretax share-based compensation expense was
    $509 million in 2010, $415 million in 2009 and
    $348 million in 2008. At December 31, 2010, there was
    $416 million of total pretax unrecognized compensation
    expense related to nonvested stock option, restricted stock unit
    and performance share unit awards which will be recognized over
    a weighted average period of 1.8 years. For segment
    reporting, share-based compensation costs are unallocated
    expenses.

61

Restructuring
    Costs  

Restructuring costs were $985 million, $1.6 billion
    and $1.0 billion for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Of
    the restructuring costs recorded in 2010, $915 million
    related to the Merger Restructuring Program, $77 million
    related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and the remaining
    difference related to the legacy Schering-Plough Productivity
    Transformation Program, which included a gain on the sale of a
    manufacturing facility. Of the restructuring costs recorded in
    2009, $1.4 billion related to the Merger Restructuring
    Program, $178 million related to the 2008 Restructuring
    Program and $39 million related to the legacy
    Schering-Plough Productivity Transformation Program. Of the
    restructuring costs recorded in 2008, $736 million related
    to the 2008 Restructuring Program and the remainder was
    associated with the 2005 Restructuring Program. In 2010, 2009
    and 2008, separation costs of $768 million,
    $1.4 billion and $957 million, respectively, were
    incurred associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as
    estimated expenses under existing severance programs for
    headcount reductions that were probable and could be reasonably
    estimated. Merck eliminated 12,465 positions in 2010 (of which
    11,410 related to the Merger Restructuring Program, 890 related
    to the 2008 Restructuring Program and the remainder to the
    legacy Schering-Plough Productivity Transformation Program),
    3,525 positions in 2009 (most of which related to the 2008
    Restructuring Program) and 5,800 positions in 2008 (of which
    approximately 1,750 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program
    and 4,050 related to the 2005 Restructuring Program). These
    position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount
    reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant
    positions. Also included in restructuring costs are curtailment,
    settlement and termination charges on pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans, as well as contract termination
    and shutdown costs. For segment reporting, restructuring costs
    are unallocated expenses. Additional costs associated with the
    Company s restructuring activities are included in
     Materials and production ,  Marketing and administrative
     and  Research and development .

Equity
    Income from Affiliates  

Equity income from affiliates, which reflects the performance of
    the Company s joint ventures and other equity method
    affiliates, declined to $587 million in 2010. Equity income
    from affiliates no longer includes equity income from the MSP
    Partnership, which became wholly-owned by the Company as a
    result of the Merger and therefore its results have been
    included in the consolidated results of the Company beginning
    from the date of the Merger, or from Merial Limited
    ( Merial ) due the sale of Old Merck s interest
    in September 2009. In addition, lower partnership returns from
    AZLP, as well as lower equity income from SPMSD as a result of
    restructuring charges recorded by the joint venture, also
    contributed to the decline. In 2009, equity income from
    affiliates declined to $2.2 billion primarily driven by
    lower equity income from the MSP Partnership and Merial
    resulting from the 2009 Merger-related events discussed above,
    partially offset by higher partnership returns from AZLP. (See
     Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information 
    below.)

Other
    (Income) Expense, Net  

The change in other (income) expense, net for 2010 as compared
    with 2009 primarily reflects a $7.5 billion gain in 2009
    resulting from recognizing Merck s previously held equity
    interest in the MSP Partnership at fair value as a result of
    obtaining control of the MSP Partnership in the Merger (see
    Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements), a
    $3.2 billion gain in 2009 on the sale of Old Merck s
    interest in Merial (see Note 10 to the consolidated
    financial statements), a $950 million charge for the
     Vioxx  Liability Reserve recorded in 2010 (see
    Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements), lower
    recognized net gains in 2010 on the Company s investment
    portfolio and charges recorded in 2010 related to the settlement
    of certain pending Average Wholesale Prices litigation (see
    Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). Lower
    interest income and higher interest expense in 2010 as a result
    of the Merger also contributed to the
     year-over-year 
    change. In addition, as discussed below, during 2010 the Company
    recognized exchange losses of $200 million due to two
    Venezuelan currency devaluations during the year. These items
    were partially offset by $443 million of income recognized
    in 2010 upon AstraZeneca s asset option exercise (see
    Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements) and
    $102 million of income recognized in 2010 on the settlement
    of certain disputed royalties.

Effective January 1, 2010, the Company was required to
    remeasure its local currency operations in Venezuela to
    U.S. dollars as the Venezuelan economy was determined to be
    hyperinflationary. Effective January 11, 2010, the
    Venezuelan government devalued its currency from at BsF 2.15 per
    U.S. dollar to a two-tiered official exchange rate at
    (1)  the essentials rate  at BsF 2.60 per
    U.S. dollar and (2)  the non-essentials
    rate  at BsF 4.30 per

62

U.S. dollar. Throughout 2010, the Company settled
    transactions at the essentials rate and therefore remeasured
    monetary assets and liabilities utilizing the essentials rate.
    In December 2010, the Venezuelan government announced it would
    eliminate the essentials rate and effective January 1,
    2011, all transactions would be settled at the official rate of
    at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. As a result of this
    announcement, the Company remeasured its December 31, 2010
    monetary assets and liabilities at the new official rate.

Included in other (income) expense, net in 2009 was the
    $7.5 billion gain related to Merck s previously held
    interest in the MSP Partnership and the $3.2 billion gain
    recognized on the sale of Old Merck s interest in Merial.
    Also included in other (income) expense, net in 2009 was
    $231 million of investment portfolio recognized net gains,
    and an $80 million charge related to the settlement of the
     Vioxx  third-party payor litigation in the United States.
    Included in other (income) expense, net in 2008 was an aggregate
    gain on distribution from AZLP of $2.2 billion, a gain of
    $249 million related to the sale of the remaining worldwide
    rights to  Aggrastat , a $300 million expense for a
    contribution to the Merck Company Foundation, $117 million
    of investment portfolio recognized net losses and a
    $58 million charge related to the resolution of an
    investigation into whether Old Merck violated state consumer
    protection laws with respect to the sales and marketing of
     Vioxx . Merck experienced a decline in interest income in
    2009 as compared with 2008 primarily as a result of lower
    interest rates and a change in the investment portfolio mix
    toward cash and shorter-dated securities in anticipation of the
    Merger. Merck recognized higher interest expense in 2009 largely
    due to $173 million of commitment fees and incremental
    interest expense related to the financing of the Merger.

Segment
    Profits  

Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less certain
    elements of materials and production costs and operating
    expenses, including components of equity income or loss from
    affiliates and depreciation and amortization expenses. For
    internal management reporting presented to the chief operating
    decision maker, Merck does not allocate production costs, other
    than standard costs, research and development expenses or
    general and administrative expenses, nor the cost of financing
    these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for
    monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation
    related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and,
    therefore, they are not included in segment profits. Also
    excluded from the determination of segment profits are the
     Vioxx  Liability Reserve and the gain on
    AstraZeneca s asset option exercise recognized in 2010, the
    gains related to the MSP Partnership and the disposition of
    Merial in 2009, and the gain on distribution from AZLP in 2008,
    as well as the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments,
    IPR D impairment charges, restructuring costs, taxes paid
    at the joint venture level and a portion of equity income.
    Additionally, segment profits do not reflect other expenses from
    corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous
    income or expense. These unallocated items are reflected in
     Other  in the above table. Also included in
     Other  are miscellaneous corporate profits, operating
    profits related to third-party manufacturing sales, divested
    products or businesses, as well as other supply sales and
    adjustments to eliminate the effect of double counting certain
    items of income and expense.

Pharmaceutical segment profits rose 53% in 2010 and increased
    11% in 2009. These increases were largely driven by the
    inclusion of legacy Schering-Plough results.

Taxes on
    Income  

The effective income tax rate was 40.6% in 2010, 14.8% in 2009
    and 20.1% in 2008. The 2010 effective tax rate reflects the
    unfavorable impacts of purchase accounting charges, IPR D
    impairment charges, restructuring charges, the  Vioxx
     Liability Reserve for which no tax impact was recorded, a
    $147 million charge associated with a change in tax law
    that requires taxation of the prescription drug subsidy of the
    Company s retiree health benefit plans which was enacted in
    the first quarter of 2010 as part of U.S. health care
    reform legislation, and the impact of AstraZeneca s asset
    option exercise. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset
    by a $391 million tax benefit

63

from changes in a foreign entity s tax rate, which resulted
    in a reduction in deferred tax liabilities on product
    intangibles recorded in conjunction with the Merger, the
    favorable impact of the enactment of the tax extenders
    legislation, including the R D tax credit, and the
    favorable impact of foreign earnings and dividends from the
    Company s foreign subsidiaries. The 2009 effective tax rate
    reflects the favorable impacts of increased income in lower tax
    jurisdictions, which includes the favorable impact of the MSP
    Partnership gain, and higher expenses in certain jurisdictions
    including the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments
    and restructuring costs. The effective income tax rate in 2009
    also benefited from 2009 tax settlements, including the
    previously announced settlement with the Canada Revenue Agency
    ( CRA ). These favorable impacts were partially offset
    by the unfavorable effect of the gain on the sale of Old
    Merck s interest in Merial which was taxable in the United
    States at a combined federal and state tax rate of approximately
    38.0%. The 2008 effective tax rate reflects favorable impacts
    relating to tax settlements that resulted in a reduction of the
    liability for unrecognized tax benefits of approximately
    $200 million, the realization of foreign tax credits and
    the favorable tax impact of foreign exchange rate changes during
    the fourth quarter, particularly the strengthening of the
    Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by
    an unfavorable impact resulting from the AZLP gain being fully
    taxable in the United States at a combined federal and state tax
    rate of approximately 36.3%. In the first quarter of 2008, Old
    Merck decided to distribute certain prior years  foreign
    earnings to the United States which resulted in a utilization of
    foreign tax credits. These foreign tax credits arose as a result
    of tax payments made outside of the United States in prior years
    that became realizable in the first quarter based on a change in
    Old Merck s decision to distribute these foreign earnings.

Net
    Income and Earnings per Common Share  

Net income attributable to Merck   Co., Inc. was
    $861 million in 2010, $12.9 billion in 2009 and
    $7.8 billion in 2008. Earnings per common share assuming
    dilution available to common shareholders ( EPS ) were
    $0.28 in 2010, $5.65 in 2009 and $3.63 in 2008. The declines in
    net income and EPS in 2010 as compared with 2009 were primarily
    due to the gains recognized in 2009 associated with the MSP
    Partnership as a result of the Merger and the disposition of
    Merial, as well as incremental costs in 2010 as a result of the
    Merger, including the recognition of a full year of amortization
    of intangible assets and inventory
     step-up.  In
    addition, IPR D impairment charges, the  Vioxx
     Liability Reserve, lower equity income from affiliates and
    the impact of U.S. health care reform legislation also
    contributed to the declines in net income and EPS in 2010. The
    increases in net income and earnings per share in 2009 as
    compared with 2008 were largely driven by the MSP Partnership
    and Merial gains, partially offset by incremental charges
    associated with the Merger, including the amortization of
    intangible assets and inventory
     step-up  and
    the recognition of merger-related costs. EPS in 2009 was also
    affected by the dilutive impact of shares issued in the Merger.

Non-GAAP Income
    and Non-GAAP EPS  

Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are alternative views of
    the Company s performance used by management that Merck is
    providing because management believes this information enhances
    investors  understanding of the Company s results.
    Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain items
    because of the nature of these items and the impact that they
    have on the analysis of underlying business performance and
    trends. The excluded items consist of certain purchase
    accounting items related to the Merger, restructuring
    activities, merger-related costs, and certain other items. These
    excluded items are significant components in understanding and
    assessing financial performance. Therefore, the information on
    non- GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS should be considered in
    addition to, but not in lieu of, net income and EPS prepared in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
    United States ( GAAP ). Additionally, since non-GAAP
    income and non-GAAP EPS are not measures determined in
    accordance with GAAP, they have no standardized meaning
    prescribed by GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the
    calculation of similar measures of other companies.

Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are important internal
    measures for the Company. Senior management receives a monthly
    analysis of operating results that includes non-GAAP income and
    non-GAAP EPS and the performance of the Company is measured
    on this basis along with other performance metrics. Senior
    management s annual compensation is derived in part using
    non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS.

64

A reconciliation between GAAP financial measures and non-GAAP
    financial measures is as follows:

(1)    

Represents the difference between calculated GAAP EPS
    and calculated non-GAAP EPS, which may be different than the
    amount calculated by dividing the impact of the excluded items
    by the weighted average shares. 

Purchase
    Accounting Adjustments  

Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude the ongoing impact
    of certain amounts recorded in connection with the Merger. These
    amounts include the amortization of intangible assets and
    inventory
     step-up,  as
    well as IPR D impairment charges (see  Research and
    Development  below).

Restructuring
    Costs  

Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude costs related to
    restructuring actions, including restructuring activities
    related to the Merger (see Note 4 to the consolidated
    financial statements). These amounts include employee separation
    costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to
    be closed or divested. Accelerated depreciation costs represent
    the difference between the depreciation expense to be recognized
    over the revised useful life of the site, based upon the
    anticipated date the site will be closed or divested, and
    depreciation expense as determined utilizing the useful life
    prior to the restructuring actions. The Company has undertaken
    restructurings of different types during the covered periods and
    therefore these charges should not be considered non-recurring;
    however, management excludes these amounts from non-GAAP income
    and non-GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for
    understanding the performance of the continuing business.

Merger-Related
    Costs  

Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude transaction costs
    associated directly with the Merger, as well as integration
    costs. These costs are excluded because management believes that
    these costs are unique to the

65

Merger transaction and are not representative of ongoing normal
    business activities. Integration costs associated with the
    Merger will occur over several years; however, the impacts
    within each year will vary as the integration progresses. These
    costs include costs associated with the potential formation of
    an animal health joint venture with sanofi-aventis.

Certain
    Other Items  

Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain other
    items. These items represent substantive, unusual items that are
    evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both
    the quantitative and the qualitative aspect of their unusual
    nature and generally represent items that, either as a result of
    their nature or magnitude, management would not anticipate that
    they would occur as part of the Company s normal business
    on a regular basis. Certain other items include the  Vioxx
     Liability Reserve, the gain recognized upon
    AstraZeneca s asset option exercise, the gain on
    recognizing Merck s previously held equity interest in the
    MSP Partnership at fair value as a result of obtaining a
    controlling interest in the Merger, the gain on the divestiture
    of Old Merck s interest in Merial and the gain on a
    distribution from AZLP.

Research
    and Development  

A chart reflecting the Company s current research pipeline
    as of February 16, 2011 is set forth in Item 1.
     Business     Research and Development 
    above.

Research
    and Development Update  

In connection with the Merger, during 2009, the Company began
    assessing its pipeline to identify the most promising,
    high-potential compounds for development. The full
    prioritization process was completed during 2010.

The Company currently has a number of candidates under
    regulatory review in the United States and internationally.

Boceprevir is an investigational oral hepatitis C virus
    protease inhibitor currently under development. Full data
    results for two pivotal late-stage studies for boceprevir were
    presented in November 2010 at the annual meeting of the American
    Association for the Study of Liver Disease which showed that
    boceprevir demonstrated significantly higher sustained virologic
    response rates in adult patients who previously failed treatment
    and in adult patients who were new to treatment for chronic
    hepatitis C virus genotype 1 compared to control, the
    primary objective of the studies. Based on these data,
    regulatory applications for boceprevir were submitted in 2010
    and have been accepted for expedited review in both the United
    States and the EU.

MK-0431A XR, the Company s investigational extended-release
    formulation of  Janumet , was accepted for standard review
    by the FDA in 2010. The Company is also moving forward as
    planned with regulatory filings in countries outside the United
    States. The extended-release formulation of  Janumet  is an
    investigational treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines
    sitagliptin, which is the active component of  Januvia ,
    with metformin extended release, a commonly-prescribed
    medication for type 2 diabetes, into a single tablet. This
    formulation is designed to provide a new treatment option for
    health care providers and patients who need two or more oral
    agents to help control their blood sugar with the convenience of
    once daily dosing.

SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a
    selective progestin with 17-beta estradiol, an estrogen that is
    identical to the one naturally present in a women s body.
    The drug is currently under review in the EU. It is also in
    Phase III development for the U.S. market.

MK-3009, Cubicin daptomycin for injection, is currently under
    review in Japan. As previously disclosed, in 2007, Cubist
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Cubist ) entered into a
    license agreement with Old Merck for the development and
    commercialization of Cubicin, for the treatment of staph
    infection, in Japan where the Company has the commercial rights
    to the drug candidate. Merck will develop and commercialize
    Cubicin through its wholly-owned subsidiary in Japan. Cubist
    commercializes Cubicin in the United States.

MK-0431D is a combination of  Januvia  and  Zocor  for
    the treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia which was accepted
    for standard review by the FDA in 2011.

66

In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the
    Company has 19 drug candidates in Phase III development.

Vorapaxar is a thrombin receptor antagonist or antiplatelet
    protease activated receptor-1 inhibitor being studied for the
    prevention and treatment of thrombosis. Merck was studying
    vorapaxar in two major clinical endpoint trials to evaluate the
    investigational medicine for the prevention of cardiac events:
    TRACER, a study in patients with acute coronary syndrome which
    has ended, and TRA-2P (also known as TIMI 50), a study in
    patients with prior heart attack, stroke and peripheral artery
    disease which is continuing in large part. Both studies were
    designed as event-driven trials in which patients were planned
    to be followed for a minimum of one year, and both had completed
    enrollment. In January 2011, Merck announced that the combined
    DSMB for the two studies had reviewed the available safety and
    efficacy data, and made recommendations for study changes to the
    chairpersons of the steering committees for the two studies. The
    study chairpersons agreed to implement these changes, and as a
    result: in the TRACER study, patients were to discontinue study
    drug and investigators were to begin to close out the study in a
    timely and orderly fashion. In the TRA-2P study, study drug was
    continued in patients who had experienced a previous heart
    attack or peripheral arterial disease (approximately 75% of the
    patients enrolled in the study), and was immediately
    discontinued in patients who experienced a stroke prior to entry
    into the study or during the course of the study. Merck
    subsequently announced that the chairman of the TRA-2P study
    reported to investigators that the DSMB had communicated that
    based on all of the data (safety and efficacy) available to them
    from both trials, they recommended that subjects with a history
    of stroke not receive vorapaxar. The DSMB had observed an
    increase in intracranial hemorrhage in patients with a history
    of stroke that is not outweighed by their considerations of
    potential benefit.

Merck plans to update its projections for regulatory filings for
    vorapaxar once the Company has received the efficacy and safety
    data from TRACER and can determine an updated completion date
    for TRA-2P. TRACER has accumulated the pre-defined number of
    primary and major secondary endpoints, although not all patients
    will continue to receive study drug through the pre-specified
    one-year follow up. Merck continues to expect that the efficacy
    and safety data from TRACER will become available later in 2011
    and will be submitted for presentation at appropriate medical
    meetings.

As a result of these developments, the Company concluded there
    was a 2010 impairment triggering event related to the vorapaxar
    intangible asset. Although there is a great deal of information
    related to these developments that remains unknown to the
    Company, utilizing market participant assumptions and
    considering several different scenarios, the Company concluded
    that its best estimate of the current fair value of the
    intangible asset related to vorapaxar was $350 million,
    which resulted in the recognition of an impairment charge of
    $1.7 billion during 2010. The Company will continue to
    monitor the remaining asset value for further impairment.

MK-8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mTOR (mammalian target of
    rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of
    cancer. Merck is currently developing ridaforolimus in multiple
    cancer indications under an exclusive license and collaboration
    agreement with ARIAD. In January 2011, ARIAD announced top-line
    data showing that ridaforolimus met the primary endpoint of
    improved progression-free survival compared to placebo in the
    Phase III SUCCEED trial conducted in patients with
    metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcomas who previously had a
    favorable response to chemotherapy. Complete findings from the
    SUCCEED trial will be submitted for presentation at an upcoming
    medical meeting in 2011. This trial remains active, and study
    participants continue to be followed to gather additional data
    on secondary endpoints, including overall survival and the
    safety profile of ridaforolimus. Merck currently plans to file
    an NDA with the FDA for oral ridaforolimus in 2011, subject to
    final collection and analysis of all available data from the
    trial.

MK-2452,  Saflutan  (tafluprost), is a preservative free,
    synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin F2  for the
    reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate
    patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular
    hypertension. In April 2009, Old Merck and Santen Pharmaceutical
    Co., Ltd. announced a worldwide licensing agreement for
    tafluprost. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA
    with the FDA for  Saflutan  in 2011.

As previously disclosed, Old Merck submitted for filing an NDA
    with the FDA for MK-0653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin,
    which is an investigational medication for the treatment of
    dyslipidemia, and the FDA refused to file the application in
    2009. The FDA has identified additional manufacturing and
    stability data that are needed; the Company anticipates filing
    an NDA in 2011.

67

As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced it was
    delaying the filing of the U.S. application for MK-0974,
    telcagepant, the Company s investigational calcitonin
    gene-related peptide ( CGRP )-receptor antagonist for
    the acute treatment of migraine. The decision was based on
    findings from a Phase IIa exploratory study in which a small
    number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for three
    months for the prevention of migraine were found to have marked
    elevations in liver transaminases. The daily dosing regimen in
    the prevention study was different than the dosing regimen used
    in Phase III studies in which telcagepant was
    intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat
    individual migraine attacks as they occurred. Following meetings
    with regulatory agencies at the end of 2009, Merck is conducting
    an additional safety study as part of the overall Phase III
    program for telcagepant. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA with the FDA in 2011.

SCH 900616,  Bridion  (sugammadex), is a medication
    designed to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle
    relaxants used as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients
    remain immobile during surgical procedures.  Bridion  has
    received regulatory approval in the EU, Australia, New Zealand,
    Japan, and a number of other markets. Prior to the Merger,
    Schering-Plough received a complete response letter from the FDA
    for  Bridion.  Following further communication from the
    FDA, the Company is assessing the agency s feedback in
    order to determine a new timetable for response.

SCH 697243 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy
    sublingual tablet ( AIT ) for grass pollen allergy for
    which the Company has North American rights. In March 2010, data
    from a Phase III study in children and adolescents
     (ages 5-17 years) 
    with grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis were presented at
    the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma   Immunology
    Annual Meeting. Allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, or runny nose and
    itchy, watery eyes due to allergies, is a common condition in
    children and adolescents. AIT is a dissolvable oral tablet that
    is designed to prevent allergy symptoms by inducing a protective
    immune response against allergies, thereby treating the
    underlying cause of the disease. Merck is investigating AIT for
    the treatment of grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in
    both children and adults. The anticipated U.S. filing date
    for SCH 697243 is under assessment.

SCH 039641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in
    Phase III development for the North American market. The
    anticipated filing date for SCH 039641 is under assessment.

SCH 418131,  Zenhale , is a fixed dose combination of two
    previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma:
    mometasone furoate and formoterol fumarate dehydrate. In
    November 2010, the Company advised the European Medicines Agency
    ( EMA ) that it was withdrawing the application for
    marketing authorization for  Zenhale , which has been
    approved for use in asthma patients 12 years of age and
    older in the United States as  Dulera  Inhalation Aerosol.
    The Company decided to withdraw the application for
     Zenhale  to address questions outstanding between the
    Company and the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use
    of the EMA. The Company expects to resubmit the application in
    the future.

MK-0431C, a candidate currently in Phase III clinical
    development, combines  Januvia  with pioglitazone, another
    type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company expects it will file an NDA
    for MK-0431C with the FDA in 2012.

MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational
    treatment for osteoporosis in post-menopausal women.
    Osteoporosis is a disease which reduces bone density and
    strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures.
    Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits
    the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central
    role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break
    down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components
    of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the
    treatment of osteoporosis. Four-year data on odanacatib were
    presented in October 2010 at the American Society for Bone and
    Mineral Research annual meeting. Clinical and preclinical
    studies continue to provide data on the potential of odanacatib
    to increase bone density, cortical thickness and bone strength
    when treating osteoporosis. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA with the FDA in 2012.

V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to expand
    protection against cancer-causing HPV types. The Phase III
    clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a
    Biologics License Application ( BLA ) with the FDA in
    2012.

MK-0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended-release
    niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor, laropiprant. MK-0524A has
    demonstrated the ability to lower LDL-cholesterol
    ( LDL-C  or  bad  cholesterol),

68

raise HDL-cholesterol ( HDL-C  or  good 
    cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less
    flushing than traditional extended release niacin alone. High
    LDL-C, low HDL-C and elevated triglycerides are risk factors
    associated with heart attacks and strokes. In April 2008, Old
    Merck received a non-approvable action letter from the FDA in
    response to its NDA for MK-0524A. At a meeting to discuss the
    letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy and safety data
    were required and suggested that Old Merck wait for the results
    of the Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular
    Events ( HPS2-THRIVE ) cardiovascular outcomes study,
    which is expected to be completed in 2012. The Company
    anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK-0524A in 2012.
    MK-0524A has been approved in more than 55 countries outside the
    United States for the treatment of dyslipidemia, particularly in
    patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by
    elevated levels of LDL-C and triglycerides and low HDL-C) and in
    patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous
    familial and non-familial) and is marketed as  Tredaptive
     (or as  Cordaptive  in certain countries).
     Tredaptive  should be used in patients in combination with
    statins, when the cholesterol lowering effects of statin
    monotherapy is inadequate.  Tredaptive  can be used as
    monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are considered
    inappropriate or not tolerated.

MK-0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to
    raising HDL-C and lowering triglycerides from extended-release
    niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of
    simvastatin in one combination product. Merck will not seek
    approval for MK-0524B in the United States until it files its
    complete response relating to MK-0524A.

MK-4305 is an investigational dual orexin receptor antagonist, a
    potential new approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia,
    currently in Phase III development. In June 2010, clinical
    results from a Phase IIb study were presented at the Annual
    Meeting of the Associated Professional Sleep Societies which
    showed MK-4305 was significantly more effective than placebo in
    improving overall sleep efficiency at night one and at the end
    of week four in patients with primary insomnia. MK-4305 was
    generally well-tolerated in the study. Orexins are neuropeptides
    (chemical messengers) that are released by specialized neurons
    in the hypothalamus region of the brain and are believed to be
    an important regulator of the brain s sleep-wake process.
    Phase III trials studying the efficacy and safety of
    MK-4305 in elderly and non-elderly insomnia patients are
    ongoing. Merck anticipates filing regulatory applications for
    MK-4305 in 2012.

SCH 900962,  Elonva , corifollitropin alpha injection,
    which has been approved in the EU for controlled ovarian
    stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the
    development of multiple follicles in women participating in an
    assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in
    Phase III development in the United States. The
    Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in
    2012.

SCH 420814, preladenant, is a selective adenosine 2a receptor
    antagonist in Phase III development for treatment of
    Parkinson s disease. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2012.

V212 is an inactivated varicella-zoster virus vaccine in
    Phase III development for prevention of herpes zoster. The
    Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2012.

MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the
    cholesteryl ester transfer protein ( CETP ) that is
    being investigated in lipid management to raise HDL-C and reduce
    LDL-C. In November 2010, researchers presented results from the
    Phase III DEFINE (Determining the EFficacy and Tolerability
    of CETP INhibition with AnacEtrapib) study with anacetrapib at
    the American Heart Association Scientific Sessions. In the trial
    of 1,623 patients with coronary heart disease
    ( CHD ) or CHD risk equivalents, anacetrapib showed no
    significant differences from placebo in the primary safety
    measures studied. There were no significant differences in mean
    changes in blood pressure between the anacetrapib and placebo
    treatment groups, nor were there any significant differences in
    serum electrolytes or aldosterone levels. During the 76-week
    treatment phase, the pre-specified adjudicated cardiovascular
    endpoint (defined as cardiovascular death, myocardial
    infarction, unstable angina or stroke) occurred in 16
    anacetrapib-treated patients (2.0%) compared with 21
    placebo-treated patients (2.6%). At 24 weeks, anacetrapib
    decreased LDL-C by 40% and increased HDL-C by 138% in patients
    already treated with a statin and at guideline-recommended LDL-C
    goal. Based on these results, the Company intends to move
    forward and study anacetrapib in a large cardiovascular clinical
    outcomes trial. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the
    FDA beyond 2015.

69

The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and
    fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well
    as research programs directed toward product development. The
    Company s research and development model is designed to
    increase productivity and improve the probability of success by
    prioritizing the Company s research and development
    resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific
    opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its
    research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to
    discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately
    on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major
    impact on human health, on developing
     best-in-class 
    approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines
    and vaccines through new indications and new formulations.
    Another important component of the Company s science-based
    diversification is based on expanding the Company s
    portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and
    vaccines, but also biologics (peptides, small proteins,
    antibodies) and RNAi. Further, Merck has moved to diversify its
    portfolio through its Merck BioVentures division, which has the
    potential to harness the market opportunity presented by
    biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality
    follow-on biologic products to enhance access for patients
    worldwide. The Company will continue to pursue appropriate
    external licensing opportunities.

The integration efforts for research and development continue to
    focus on integrating the research operations of the legacy
    companies, including providing an effective transition for
    employees, realizing projected merger synergies in the form of
    cost savings and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining
    momentum in the Company s late-stage pipeline. Overall, the
    Company s global operating model will align franchise and
    function as well as align resources with disease area priorities
    and balance capacity across discovery phases and allow the
    Company to act upon those programs with the highest probability
    of success. Additionally, across all disease area priorities,
    the Company s strategy is designed to expand access to
    worldwide external science and incorporate external research as
    a key component of the Company s early discovery pipeline
    in order to translate basic research productivity into
    late-stage clinical success.

The Company s clinical pipeline includes candidates in
    multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer,
    cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases,
    inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, migraine,
    neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis,
    psychiatric diseases, respiratory diseases and women s
    health. The Company supplements its internal research with an
    aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on
    the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to
    late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies.

In-Process
    Research and Development  

In connection with the Merger, the Company recorded the fair
    value of human and animal health research projects that were
    underway at Schering-Plough and the MSP Partnership. The fair
    value of projects allocated to the Pharmaceutical and Animal
    Health operating segments was $5.3 billion and
    $1.3 billion, respectively.

The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to
    IPR D were determined by using an income approach, through
    which fair value is estimated based on each asset s
    probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the
    different stages of development of each product and the
    associated probability of successful completion. The net cash
    flows are then discounted to present value using discount rates
    which ranged from 12% to 15%. Actual cash flows are likely to be
    different than those assumed.

Some of the more significant projects include boceprevir,
     Bridion  and vorapaxar, as well as an
    ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product. These projects are
    discussed in further detail above. As noted above, the Company
    filed an NDA with the FDA in 2010 for boceprevir and anticipates
    filing an NDA for the ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product
    with the FDA in 2011.

The Company determined that the developments in the clinical
    research program for vorapaxar discussed above constituted a
    triggering event that required the Company to evaluate the
    vorapaxar intangible asset for impairment. Although there is a
    great deal of information related to these developments that
    remains unknown to the Company, utilizing market participant
    assumptions, and considering several different scenarios, the
    Company concluded that its best estimate of the current fair
    value of the intangible asset related to vorapaxar was
    $350 million, which resulted in the recognition of an
    impairment charge of $1.7 billion during 2010. The Company
    will continue to monitor the remaining asset value for
    impairment. The Company anticipates the results from the TRACER

70

clinical trial will be available later in 2011. Also during
    2010, the Company recorded an additional $763 million of
    IPR D impairment charges attributable to compounds that
    were abandoned and determined to have either no alternative use
    or were returned to the respective licensor, as well as from
    expected delays in the launch timing or changes in the cash flow
    assumptions for certain compounds.

The Company has also recognized intangible assets for the fair
    value of research projects underway in connection with the
    SmartCells, Inc. ( SmartCells ) acquisition during
    2010 and the Insmed, Inc. acquisition in 2009 (see Note 4
    to the consolidated financial statements).

All of the IPR D projects that remain in development are
    subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties in drug
    development and it is possible that the Company will not be able
    to successfully develop and complete the IPR D programs and
    profitably commercialize the underlying product candidates. The
    time periods to receive approvals from the FDA and other
    regulatory agencies are subject to uncertainty. Significant
    delays in the approval process, or the Company s failure to
    obtain approval at all, would delay or prevent the Company from
    realizing revenues from these products. Additionally, if certain
    of the IPR D programs fail or are abandoned during
    development, then the Company will not realize the future cash
    flows it has estimated and recorded as IPR D as of the
    merger or acquisition date, and the Company may also not recover
    the research and development expenditures made since the Merger
    to further develop such program. If such circumstances were to
    occur, the Company s future operating results could be
    adversely affected and the Company may recognize impairment
    charges and such charges could be material.

Additional research and development will be required before any
    of the programs reach technological feasibility. The costs to
    complete the research projects will depend on whether the
    projects are brought to their final stages of development and
    are ultimately submitted to the FDA or other regulatory agencies
    for approval. As of December 31, 2010, the estimated costs
    to complete projects acquired in connection with the Merger in
    Phase III development for human health and the analogous
    stage of development for animal health were approximately
    $1.9 billion.

Acquisitions,
    Research Collaborations and License Agreements  

Merck continues to remain focused on augmenting its internal
    efforts by capitalizing on growth opportunities that will drive
    both near- and long-term growth. During 2010, the Company
    completed transactions across a broad range of therapeutic
    categories, including early-stage technology transactions. Merck
    is actively monitoring the landscape for growth opportunities
    that meet the Company s strategic criteria. Highlights from
    these activities include:

In December 2010, the Company acquired all of the outstanding
    stock of SmartCells, a private company developing a glucose
    responsive insulin formulation for the treatment of diabetes
    mellitus. The total purchase consideration, which the Company
    determined had a fair value at the acquisition date of
    $138 million, included an upfront cash payment, contingent
    consideration consisting of future clinical development and
    regulatory milestones, as well as contingent consideration on
    future sales of products resulting from the acquisition. The
    transaction was accounted for under the acquisition method of
    accounting; accordingly, the assets and liabilities were
    recorded at their respective fair values on the acquisition
    date. The determination of fair value requires management to
    make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with
    the acquisition, substantially all of the preliminary purchase
    price was allocated to IPR  the remaining net assets
    acquired were not significant. The fair value of the contingent
    consideration was determined by utilizing a probability weighted
    estimated cash flow stream adjusted for the expected timing of
    each payment. Subsequent to the acquisition date, on a quarterly
    basis, the contingent consideration liability will be remeasured
    at current fair value with changes recorded in earnings. The
    results of operations of SmartCells have been included in the
    Company s results of operations from the date of
    acquisition and were not significant. Certain estimated values
    are not yet finalized and may be subject to change. The Company
    expects to finalize these amounts as soon as possible, but no
    later than one year from the acquisition date.

In February 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of
    Avecia Biologics Limited ( Avecia ) for a total
    purchase price of approximately $190 million. Avecia is a
    contract manufacturing organization with specific expertise in
    microbial-derived biologics. Under the terms of the agreement,
    the Company acquired Avecia and all of its assets, including all
    of Avecia s process development and
     scale-up, 
    manufacturing, quality and business support

71

operations located in Billingham, United Kingdom. The
    transaction was accounted for as a business combination;
    accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were
    recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition
    date. The determination of fair value requires management to
    make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with
    the acquisition, substantially all of the purchase price was
    allocated to Avecia s property, plant and equipment and
    goodwill. The remaining net assets acquired were not material.
    This transaction closed on February 1, 2010, and
    accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business
    have been included in the Company s results of operations
    beginning after the acquisition date. Pro forma financial
    information has not been included because Avecia s
    historical financial results are not significant when compared
    with the Company s financial results.

In May 2010, Merck announced that it had restructured its
    co-development and co-commercialization agreement with ARIAD for
    ridaforolimus (MK-8669), an investigational orally available
    mTOR inhibitor currently being evaluated for the treatment of
    multiple cancer types, to an exclusive license agreement. Under
    the restructured agreement, Merck has acquired full control of
    the development and worldwide commercialization of
    ridaforolimus. ARIAD received a $50 million upfront fee,
    which the Company recorded as research and development expense
    in 2010, and is eligible to receive milestone payments
    associated with regulatory filings and approvals of
    ridaforolimus in multiple cancer indications and achievement of
    significant sales thresholds. In lieu of the profit split on
    U.S. sales provided for in the previous agreement, ARIAD
    will now receive royalties on global net sales of ridaforolimus,
    and all sales will be recorded by Merck. Merck has assumed
    responsibility for all activities and has acquired decision
    rights on matters relating to the development, manufacturing and
    commercialization of ridaforolimus. The Investigational New Drug
    Application has been transferred to Merck, and Merck will file
    the marketing application worldwide for any oncology indications
    and lead all interactions with regulatory agencies. The
    agreement is terminable by Merck upon nine months notice, or
    immediately upon a good faith determination of a serious safety
    issue. The agreement is terminable by either party as a result
    of insolvency by the other party or an uncured material breach
    by the other party or by ARIAD for a failure by Merck to perform
    certain product development responsibilities.

Selected
    Joint Venture and Affiliate Information  

To expand its research base and realize synergies from combining
    capabilities, opportunities and assets, in previous years Old
    Merck formed a number of joint ventures.

AstraZeneca
    LP  

In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB
    ( Astra ) to develop and market Astra s products
    under a royalty-bearing license. In 1993, Old Merck s total
    sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered the first
    step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on
    by Astra Merck Inc. ( AMI ), in which Old Merck and
    Astra each owned a 50% share. This joint venture, formed in
    1994, developed and marketed most of Astra s new
    prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec,
    the first of a class of medications known as proton pump
    inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of
    the stomach lining.

In 1998, Old Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the
    ownership and operations of the joint venture whereby Old Merck
    acquired Astra s interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc.
    ( KBI ), and contributed KBI s operating assets
    to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals
    L.P. (the  Partnership ), in exchange for a 1% limited
    partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly
    owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in
    exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership,
    renamed AstraZeneca LP ( AZLP ) upon Astra s 1999
    merger with Zeneca Group Plc (the  AstraZeneca
    merger ), became the exclusive distributor of the products
    for which KBI retained rights.

While maintaining a 1% limited partner interest in AZLP, Merck
    has consent and protective rights intended to preserve its
    business and economic interests, including restrictions on the
    power of the general partner to make certain distributions or
    dispositions. Furthermore, in limited events of default,
    additional rights will be granted to the Company, including
    powers to direct the actions of, or remove and replace, the
    Partnership s chief executive officer and chief financial
    officer. Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of KBI
    products and such revenue was $1.3 billion,
    $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as
    Prilosec. In addition, Merck earns certain Partnership returns
    which are recorded in  Equity  

72

income from affiliates.  Such returns include a priority
    return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, variable
    returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA,
    Inc. products, and a preferential return representing
    Merck s share of undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings. These
    returns aggregated $546 million, $674 million and
    $598 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The AstraZeneca merger constituted a Trigger Event under the KBI
    restructuring agreements, which resulted in the partial
    redemption in 2008 of Old Merck s interest in certain AZLP
    product rights. Upon this redemption, Old Merck received
    $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was based primarily on
    a multiple of Old Merck s average annual variable returns
    derived from sales of the former Astra USA, Inc. products for
    the three years prior to the redemption (the  Limited
    Partner Share of Agreed Value ). Old Merck recorded a
    $1.5 billion pretax gain on the partial redemption in 2008.
    The partial redemption of Old Merck s interest in the
    product rights did not result in a change in Old Merck s 1%
    limited partnership interest.

As a result of the AstraZeneca merger, in exchange for Old
    Merck s relinquishment of rights to future Astra products
    with no existing or pending U.S. patents at the time of the
    merger, Astra paid $967 million (the  Advance
    Payment ). The Advance Payment was deferred as it remained
    subject to a
     true-up 
    calculation (the
      True-Up 
    Amount ) that was directly dependent on the fair market
    value in March 2008 of the Astra product rights retained by Old
    Merck. The calculated
     True-Up 
    Amount of $243 million was returned to AZLP in 2008 and Old
    Merck recognized a pretax gain of $724 million related to
    the residual Advance Payment balance.

Under the provisions of the KBI restructuring agreements,
    because a Trigger Event has occurred, the sum of the Limited
    Partner Share of Agreed Value, the Appraised Value (as discussed
    below) and the
     True-Up 
    Amount was guaranteed to be a minimum of $4.7 billion.
    Distribution of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value less
    payment of the
     True-Up 
    Amount resulted in cash receipts to Old Merck of
    $4.0 billion and an aggregate pretax gain of
    $2.2 billion which was included in  Other (income)
    expense, net  in 2008. Also, in March 2008, the
    $1.38 billion outstanding loan from Astra plus interest
    through the redemption date was settled. As a result of these
    transactions, Old Merck received net proceeds from AZLP of
    $2.6 billion in 2008.

In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring discussed above,
    Astra purchased an option (the  Asset Option ) for a
    payment of $443 million, which was recorded as deferred
    income, to buy Old Merck s interest in the KBI products,
    excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec
    (the  Non-PPI Products ). In April 2010, AstraZeneca
    exercised the Asset Option. Merck received $647 million
    from AstraZeneca representing the net present value as of
    March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be
    received by Old Merck from the Non-PPI Products (the
     Appraised Value ), which was recorded as a reduction
    to the Company s investment in AZLP. The Company recognized
    the $443 million of deferred income in 2010 as a component
    of  Other (income) expense, net . In addition, in 1998, Old
    Merck granted Astra an option (the
     Shares Option ) to buy Old Merck s common
    stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old Merck s interest
    in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012. The exercise price
    for the Shares Option will be based on the net present
    value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as
    determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain
     true-up 
    mechanisms. The Company believes that it is likely that
    AstraZeneca will exercise the Shares Option.

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Partnership  

In 2000, Old Merck and Schering-Plough (collectively, the
     Partners ) entered into an agreement to create an
    equally-owned partnership to develop and market in the United
    States new prescription medicines for cholesterol management. In
    2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of
    cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched in the United States
    as  Zetia  (marketed as  Ezetrol  outside the United
    States). In 2004, a combination product containing the active
    ingredients of both  Zetia  and  Zocor  was approved
    in the United States as  Vytorin  (marketed as  Inegy
     outside of the United States). The cholesterol agreements
    provided for the sharing of operating income generated by the
    MSP Partnership based upon percentages that varied by product,
    sales level and country. Operating income included expenses that
    the Partners contractually agreed to share. Expenses incurred in
    support of the MSP Partnership but not shared between the
    Partners were not included in  Equity income from
    affiliates ; however, these costs were reflected in the
    overall results of the Partners.

73

Sales of joint venture products were as
    follows  (1)  :

(1)    

Amounts exclude sales of these products by the Partners
    outside of the MSP Partnership. 

The results from Old Merck s interest in the MSP
    Partnership prior to the Merger are reflected in  Equity
    income from affiliates  and were $1.2 billion in 2009
    and $1.5 billion in 2008. As a result of the Merger, the
    MSP Partnership is wholly-owned by the Company. Activity
    resulting from the sale of MSP Partnership products after the
    Merger has been consolidated with Merck s results. For a
    discussion of the performance of these products in 2010, see
     Sales  above.

Merial
    Limited  

In 1997, Old Merck and Rh ne-Poulenc S.A. (now
    sanofi-aventis) combined their animal health businesses to
    form Merial Limited ( Merial ), a fully
    integrated animal health company, which was a stand-alone joint
    venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a
    comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance
    the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal
    species.

On September 17, 2009, Old Merck sold its 50% interest in
    Merial to sanofi-aventis for $4.0 billion in cash. The sale
    resulted in the recognition of a $3.2 billion pretax gain
    in 2009 reflected in  Other income (expense), net .

In connection with the sale of Merial, Old Merck, sanofi-aventis
    and Schering-Plough signed a call option agreement, which
    provided sanofi-aventis with an option to require the Company to
    combine its Intervet/Schering-Plough Animal Health business with
    Merial to form an animal health joint venture that would be
    owned equally by the Company and sanofi-aventis. In March 2010,
    sanofi-aventis exercised its option. As part of the call option
    agreement, the value of Merial has been fixed at
    $8.0 billion. The minimum total value to be received by the
    Company for contributing Intervet/Schering-Plough to the
    combined entity would be $9.25 billion (subject to
    customary transaction adjustments), consisting of a floor
    valuation of Intervet/Schering-Plough which is fixed at a
    minimum of $8.5 billion (which was subject to potential
    upward revision based on a valuation exercise by the two
    parties) and an additional payment by sanofi-aventis of
    $750 million. Upon completion of the valuation exercise,
    the parties agreed that a future payment of $250 million
    would be made by sanofi-aventis to the Company in addition to
    the $750 million payment referred to above. All payments,
    including adjustments for debt and certain other liabilities,
    will be made upon closing of the transaction. The formation of
    this new animal health joint venture with sanofi-aventis is
    subject to execution of final agreements, regulatory review in
    the United States, Europe and other countries and other
    customary closing conditions. On March 30, 2010, the
    parties signed the contribution agreement which obligates them,
    subject to regulatory approval, to form the joint venture. The
    Company expects the transaction to close in the third quarter of
    2011. The Company s agreement with sanofi-aventis provides
    that if the transaction has not been consummated by
    March 30, 2011 either party may terminate the proposed
    joint venture without paying a
     break-up  fee
    or other penalty.

Sales of joint venture products were as follows:

74

Sanofi
    Pasteur MSD  

In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur M rieux Connaught (now
    Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established an equally-owned joint venture
    to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the
    development of combination vaccines for distribution in Europe.

Sales of joint venture products were as follows:

Johnson  
    Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company  

In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with
    Johnson   Johnson to develop and market a broad range
    of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50%
    owned venture was subsequently expanded into Canada. Significant
    joint venture products are  Pepcid AC , an
     over-the-counter 
    form of the Company s ulcer medication  Pepcid , as
    well as  Pepcid Complete , an
     over-the-counter 
    product which combines the Company s ulcer medication with
    antacids.

Sales of joint venture products were as follows:

Capital
    Expenditures  

Capital expenditures were $1.7 billion in 2010,
    $1.5 billion in 2009 and $1.3 billion in 2008.
    Expenditures in the United States were $990 million in
    2010, $982 million in 2009 and $947 million in 2008.
    Capital expenditures for 2011 are estimated to be
    $1.9 billion.

Depreciation expense was $2.6 billion in 2010,
    $1.7 billion in 2009 and $1.4 billion in 2008 of which
    $1.7 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.0 billion,
    respectively, applied to locations in the United States. Total
    depreciation expense in 2010, 2009 and 2008 included accelerated
    depreciation of $849 million, $348 million and
    $217 million, respectively, associated with restructuring
    activities (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial
    statements).

Analysis
    of Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Merck s strong financial profile enables it to fully fund
    research and development, focus on external alliances, support
    in-line products and maximize upcoming launches while providing
    significant cash returns to shareholders.

Selected
    Data  

75

Cash provided by operating activities was $10.8 billion in
    2010, $3.4 billion in 2009 and $6.6 billion in 2008.
    The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2010 as
    compared with 2009 primarily reflects the inclusion of a full
    year of legacy Schering-Plough operations, as well as
    $4.1 billion of payments in 2009 into the  Vioxx
     settlement funds and a $660 million payment in 2009
    made in connection with the previously disclosed settlement with
    the Canada Revenue Agency ( CRA ). Cash provided by
    operating activities in 2008 reflects $2.1 billion received
    in connection with a partial redemption of Old Merck s
    partnership interest in AZLP, representing a distribution of Old
    Merck s accumulated earnings on its investment in AZLP
    since inception. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008
    was also affected by a $675 million payment made in
    connection with the previously disclosed resolution of
    investigations of civil claims by federal and state authorities
    relating to certain past marketing and selling activities and
    $750 million of payments into the  Vioxx  settlement
    funds. Cash provided by operating activities continues to be the
    Company s primary source of funds to finance operating
    needs, capital expenditures, treasury stock purchases and
    dividends paid to shareholders. The global economic downturn and
    the sovereign debt issues, among other factors, have caused
    foreign receivables to deteriorate in 2010 in certain European
    countries. While the Company continues to receive payment on
    these receivables, these conditions may continue to result in an
    increase in the average length of time it takes to collect on
    the accounts receivable outstanding which can impact cash
    provided by operating activities.

Cash used in investing activities was $3.5 billion in 2010
    compared with cash provided by investing activities of
    $3.2 billion in 2009. The change reflects lower proceeds
    from the sales of securities and other investments and higher
    purchases of securities and other investments in 2010, as well
    as a decrease in restricted assets, and proceeds from the
    disposition of Old Merck s interest in Merial in 2009,
    partially offset by the use of cash in 2009 to fund the Merger
    and the proceeds received in 2010 related to AstraZeneca s
    asset option exercise. Cash provided by investing activities was
    $3.2 billion in 2009 compared with cash used in investing
    activities of $1.8 billion in 2008. The change was
    primarily driven by the release of restricted cash primarily due
    to the release of pledged collateral for certain
     Vioxx -related matters, lower purchases of securities and
    other investments and proceeds from the 2009 disposition of Old
    Merck s interest in Merial. These increases in cash used in
    investing activities were partially offset by the use of cash in
    2009 to fund the Merger, as well as by a 2008 distribution from
    AZLP representing a return of Old Merck s investment in
    AZLP.

Cash used in financing activities was $5.4 billion in 2010
    compared with $1.6 billion in 2009 reflecting lower
    proceeds from the issuance of debt, purchases of treasury stock
    in 2010, increased dividends paid to stockholders and higher
    payments on debt, partially offset by an increase in short-term
    borrowings. Cash used in financing activities was
    $1.6 billion in 2009 compared with $5.5 billion in
    2008 reflecting higher proceeds from the issuance of debt, no
    purchases of treasury stock and lower payments on debt,
    partially offset by a net decrease in short-term borrowings.
    Dividends paid to stockholders were $4.7 billion in 2010,
    $3.2 billion in 2009 and $3.3 billion in 2008.

At December 31, 2010, the total of worldwide cash and
    investments was $14.4 billion, including $12.2 billion
    of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, and
    $2.2 billion of long-term investments. A large portion of
    the cash and investments are held in foreign jurisdictions.
    Working capital levels are more than adequate to meet the
    operating requirements of the Company.

As previously disclosed, in October 2006, the CRA issued Old
    Merck a notice of reassessment containing adjustments related to
    certain intercompany pricing matters. In February 2009, Old
    Merck and the CRA negotiated a settlement agreement in regard to
    these matters. In accordance with the settlement, Old Merck paid
    an additional tax of approximately $300 million
    (U.S. dollars) and interest of approximately
    $360 million (U.S. dollars) with no additional amounts
    or penalties due on this assessment. The settlement was
    accounted for in the first quarter of 2009. Old Merck had
    previously established reserves for these matters. A significant
    portion of the taxes paid is expected to be creditable for
    U.S. tax purposes. The resolution of these matters did not
    have a material effect on Old Merck s financial position or
    liquidity, other than with respect to the associated collateral
    as discussed below.

In addition, as previously disclosed, the CRA has proposed
    additional adjustments for 1999 and 2000 relating to other
    intercompany pricing matters. The adjustments would increase
    Canadian tax due by approximately $317 million
    (U.S. dollars) plus approximately $340 million
    (U.S. dollars) of interest through December 31, 2010.
    The Company disagrees with the positions taken by the CRA and
    believes they are without merit. The Company

76

continues to contest the assessments through the CRA appeals
    process. The CRA is expected to prepare similar adjustments for
    later years. Management believes that resolution of these
    matters will not have a material effect on the Company s
    financial position or liquidity.

In connection with the appeals process discussed above related
    to 1999 and 2000, Old Merck pledged cash and investments as
    collateral to two financial institutions, one of which provided
    a guarantee to the CRA and the other to the Quebec Ministry of
    Revenue representing a portion of the tax and interest assessed.
    The guarantee to the Quebec Ministry of Revenue expired in the
    first quarter of 2009. The collateral associated with the
    guarantee to the CRA totaled approximately $290 million at
    December 31, 2009 and was included in  Deferred income
    taxes and other current assets  and  Other assets  in
    the Consolidated Balance Sheet. During 2010, this guarantee was
    replaced with a guarantee that is not collateralized.
    Accordingly, the collateral associated with the original
    guarantee was released and reclassified to cash and investments.

The IRS has finalized its examination of Schering-Plough s
     2003-2006 
    tax years. In this audit cycle, the Company reached an agreement
    with the IRS on an adjustment to income related to intercompany
    pricing matters. This income adjustment mostly reduced NOLs and
    other tax credit carryforwards. Additionally, the Company is
    seeking resolution of one issue raised during this examination
    through the IRS administrative appeals process. The
    Company s reserves for uncertain tax positions were
    adequate to cover all adjustments related to this examination
    period. The IRS began its examination of the
     2007-2009 
    tax years for the Company in 2010. The IRS s examination of
    Old Merck s
     2002-2005 
    federal income tax returns is ongoing and is expected to
    conclude within the next 12 months.

The Company s contractual obligations as of
    December 31, 2010 are as follows:

Payments
    Due by Period  

(1)    

As of December 31, 2010, the Company s Consolidated
    Balance Sheet reflects liabilities for unrecognized tax
    benefits, interest and penalties of $6.2 billion, including
    $903 million reflected as a current liability. Due to the
    high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash
    outflows of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits beyond one
    year, a reasonable estimate of the period of cash settlement for
    years beyond 2011 can not be made. 

Purchase obligations consist primarily of goods and services
    that are enforceable and legally binding and include obligations
    for minimum inventory contracts, research and development and
    advertising. Amounts reflected for research and development
    obligations do not include contingent milestone payments. Loans
    payable and current portion of long-term debt also reflects
    $496 million of long-dated notes that are subject to
    repayment at the option of the holders on an annual basis.
    Required funding obligations for 2011 relating to the
    Company s pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    are not expected to be material. However, the Company currently
    anticipates contributing approximately $800 million and
    $60 million, respectively, to its pension plans and other
    postretirement benefit plans during 2011. The table above does
    not reflect the $950 million  Vioxx  Liability Reserve
    recorded in connection with the anticipated resolution of the
    DOJ s investigation related to  Vioxx . The
    Company s discussions with the government are ongoing and
    until they are concluded there can be no certainty about a
    definitive resolution or the timing of any potential payment.

In December 2010, Merck closed an underwritten public offering
    of $2.0 billion senior unsecured notes consisting of
    $850 million aggregate principal amount of 2.25% notes
    due 2016 and $1.15 billion aggregate

77

principal amount of 3.875% notes due 2021. Interest on the
    notes is payable semi-annually. The notes of each series are
    redeemable in whole or in part at any time, at the
    Company s option at varying redemption prices. Proceeds
    from the notes were used for general corporate purposes,
    including the reduction of short-term debt.

In December 2009, the Company filed a securities registration
    statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    ( SEC ) under the automatic shelf registration process
    available to  well-known seasoned issuers  which is
    effective for three years.

During 2010, the Company executed a new $2.0 billion,
     364-day 
    credit facility and terminated both Old Merck s
    $1.0 billion incremental facility due to expire in November
    2010 and its $1.5 billion revolving credit facility
    scheduled to mature in April 2013. The Company s
    $2.0 billion credit facility maturing in August 2012
    remains outstanding. Both outstanding facilities provide backup
    liquidity for the Company s commercial paper borrowing
    facility and are to be used for general corporate purposes. The
    Company has not drawn funding from either facility.

In connection with the Merger, effective as of November 3,
    2009, New Merck executed a full and unconditional guarantee of
    the then existing debt of Old Merck and Old Merck executed a
    full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of
    New Merck (excluding commercial paper), including for payments
    of principal and interest. These guarantees do not extend to
    debt issued subsequent to the Merger.

The Company s long-term credit ratings assigned by
    Moody s Investors Service and Standard  
    Poor s are Aa3 with a stable outlook and AA with a stable
    outlook, respectively. These ratings continue to allow access to
    the capital markets and flexibility in obtaining funds on
    competitive terms. The Company continues to maintain a
    conservative financial profile. The Company places its cash and
    investments in instruments that meet high credit quality
    standards, as specified in its investment policy guidelines.
    These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any
    one issuer. Despite this strong financial profile, certain
    contingent events, if realized, which are discussed in
    Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, could
    have a material adverse impact on the Company s liquidity
    and capital resources. The Company does not participate in any
    off-balance sheet arrangements involving unconsolidated
    subsidiaries that provide financing or potentially expose the
    Company to unrecorded financial obligations.

In November 2010 and February 2011, the Board of Directors
    declared a quarterly dividend of $0.38 per share on the
    Company s common stock for the first and second quarters of
    2011, respectively.

In November 2009, the Board of Directors approved purchases over
    time of up to $3.0 billion of Merck s common stock for
    its treasury. The Company purchased $1.6 billion of its
    common stock under this program during 2010. No purchases of
    treasury stock were made in 2009. Old Merck purchased
    $2.7 billion of treasury stock in 2008 under a previous
    program approved by Old Merck s Board of Directors in July
    2002.

Financial
    Instruments Market Risk Disclosures  

The Company manages the impact of foreign exchange rate
    movements and interest rate movements on its earnings, cash
    flows and fair values of assets and liabilities through
    operational means and through the use of various financial
    instruments, including derivative instruments.

A significant portion of the Company s revenues and
    earnings in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign
    exchange rates. The objectives and accounting related to the
    Company s foreign currency risk management program, as well
    as its interest rate risk management activities are discussed
    below.

Foreign
    Currency Risk Management  

A significant portion of the Company s revenues are
    denominated in foreign currencies. The Company has established
    revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs to
    protect against volatility of future foreign currency cash flows
    and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign
    exchange rates.

The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the
    potential for longer-term unfavorable changes in foreign
    exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash
    flows derived from foreign currency

78

denominated sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To
    achieve this objective, the Company will partially hedge
    forecasted foreign currency denominated third-party and
    intercompany distributor entity sales that are expected to occur
    over its planning cycle, typically no more than three years into
    the future. The Company will layer in hedges over time,
    increasing the portion of third-party and intercompany
    distributor entity sales hedged as it gets closer to the
    expected date of the forecasted foreign currency denominated
    sales, such that it is probable the hedged transaction will
    occur. The portion of sales hedged is based on assessments of
    cost-benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting
    exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities and
    correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged
    anticipated sales are a specified component of a portfolio of
    similarly denominated foreign currency-based sales transactions,
    each of which responds to the hedged risk in the same manner.
    The Company manages its anticipated transaction exposure
    principally with purchased local currency put options, which
    provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell
    foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If
    the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the
    hedged anticipated sales, total changes in the options 
    cash flows offset the decline in the expected future
    U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency
    sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the
    options  value reduces to zero, but the Company benefits
    from the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign
    currency cash flows. The Company also utilizes forward contracts
    in its revenue hedging program. If the U.S. dollar
    strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated
    sales, the increase in the fair value of the forward contracts
    offsets the decrease in the expected future U.S. dollar
    cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if
    the U.S. dollar weakens, the decrease in the fair value of
    the forward contracts offsets the increase in the value of the
    anticipated foreign currency cash flows. While a weaker
    U.S. dollar would result in a net benefit, the market value
    of Merck s hedges would have declined by an estimated
    $256 million and $245 million, respectively, from a
    uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009. The market value was determined
    using a foreign exchange option pricing model and holding all
    factors except exchange rates constant. Because Merck
    principally uses purchased local currency put options, a uniform
    weakening of the U.S. dollar would yield the largest
    overall potential loss in the market value of these options. The
    sensitivity measurement assumes that a change in one foreign
    currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other
    foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although
    not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10%
    threshold reflects reasonably possible near-term changes in
    Merck s major foreign currency exposures relative to the
    U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are
    reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement
    of Cash Flows.

The primary objective of the balance sheet risk management
    program is to mitigate the exposure of foreign currency
    denominated net monetary assets of foreign subsidiaries where
    the U.S. dollar is the functional currency from the effects
    of volatility in foreign exchange that might occur prior to
    their conversion to U.S. dollars. In these instances, Merck
    principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable
    the Company to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at
    fixed exchange rates and economically offset the consequences of
    changes in foreign exchange from the monetary assets. Merck
    routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of
    exchange on exposures denominated in developed country
    currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures
    in developing country currencies, the Company will enter into
    forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on
    exposures when it is deemed economical to do so based on a
    cost-benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the
    exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of
    the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the
    effect of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities by
    managing operating activities and net asset positions at the
    local level.

When applicable, the Company uses forward contracts to hedge the
    changes in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated
     available-for-sale 
    securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates. These derivative contracts are designated as
    fair value hedges. A sensitivity analysis to changes in the
    value of the U.S. dollar on foreign currency denominated
    derivatives, investments and monetary assets and liabilities
    indicated that if the U.S. dollar uniformly weakened by 10%
    against all currency exposures of the Company at
    December 31, 2010,  Income before taxes  would have
    declined by approximately $127 million in 2010. Because the
    Company was in a net short position relative to its major
    foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, a
    uniform weakening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest
    overall potential net loss in earnings due to exchange. At
    December 31, 2009, the Company was in a net long position
    relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of
    forward contracts, therefore a uniform 10% strengthening of the
    U.S. dollar would have reduced  Income before taxes
     by $11 million. This measurement assumes that a change
    in one foreign currency relative to the

79

U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies
    relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in
    nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold reflects
    reasonably possible near-term changes in Merck s major
    foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The
    cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating
    activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

Effective January 1, 2010, the Company was required to
    remeasure its local currency operations in Venezuela to
    U.S. dollars as the Venezuelan economy was determined to be
    hyperinflationary. Effective January 11, 2010, the
    Venezuelan government devalued its currency from at BsF 2.15 per
    U.S. dollar to a two-tiered official exchange rate at
    (1)  the essentials rate  at BsF 2.60 per
    U.S. dollar and (2)  the non-essentials
    rate  at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. Throughout 2010,
    the Company settled transactions at the essentials rate and
    therefore remeasured monetary assets and liabilities utilizing
    the essentials rate. In December 2010, the Venezuelan government
    announced it would eliminate the essentials rate and effective
    January 1, 2011, all transactions would be settled at the
    official rate of at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. As a result
    of this announcement, the Company remeasured its
    December 31, 2010 monetary assets and liabilities at the
    new official rate.

Foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign
    currency debt. The Company s senior unsecured
    euro-denominated notes have been designated as, and are
    effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign
    operation. Accordingly, foreign currency transaction gains or
    losses on the euro-denominated debt instruments are included in
    foreign currency translation adjustment within other
    comprehensive income (  OCI ) .

In 2010, the Company began using forward exchange contracts to
    hedge its net investment in foreign operations against adverse
    movements in exchange rates. The forward contracts are
    designated as hedges of the net investment in a foreign
    operation. The Company hedges a portion of the net investments
    in certain of its foreign operations and measures
    ineffectiveness based upon changes in spot foreign exchange
    rates. The effective portion of the unrealized gains or losses
    on these contracts is recorded in foreign currency translation
    adjustment within  OCI  and remains in  OCI  until
    either the sale or complete or substantially complete
    liquidation of the subsidiary. The cash flows from these
    contracts are reported as investing activities in the
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

Interest
    Rate Risk Management  

In addition to the revenue hedging and balance sheet risk
    management programs, the Company may use interest rate swap
    contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to
    manage its net exposure to interest rate changes and to reduce
    its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use
    leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its
    investment activities that would put principal capital at risk.

At December 31, 2010, the Company was a party to 13
    pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts
    designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate notes in which the
    notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed-rate
    notes. There are two swaps maturing in 2011 with notional
    amounts of $125 million each that effectively convert the
    Company s $250 million, 5.125% fixed-rate notes due
    2011 to floating rate instruments and five swaps maturing in
    2015 with notional amounts of $150 million each that
    effectively convert $750 million of the Company s
    $1.0 billion, 4.0% fixed-rate notes due 2015 to floating
    rate instruments. In addition, there are six swaps maturing in
    2016, two of which have notional amounts of $175 million
    each, and four of which have notional amounts of
    $125 million each, that effectively convert the
    Company s $850 million, 2.25% fixed-rate notes due
    2016 to floating rate instruments.

In February 2011, the Company entered into nine additional
    pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts
    designated as fair value hedges for fixed-rate notes in which
    the notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed-rate
    notes. There are four swaps maturing in 2015, two of which have
    notional amounts of $250 million each, and one of which has
    a notional amount of $500 million, that effectively convert
    the Company s $1.0 billion, 4.75% fixed-rate notes due
    2015 to floating rate instruments, and one swap which has a
    notional amount of $250 million, that effectively converts
    the remainder of the Company s $1.0 billion, 4.0%
    fixed-rate notes due in 2015 to floating rate instruments. There
    are two swaps maturing in 2017, with notional amounts of
    $600 million and $400 million that effectively convert
    the $1.0 billion, 6.0% fixed-rate notes due in 2017 to
    floating rate instruments. There are three swaps maturing in
    2019, two of which have notional amounts of $500 million
    each,

80

and one of which has a notional amount of $250 million,
    that effectively convert the Company s $1.25 billion,
    5.0% fixed-rate notes due in 2019 to floating rate instruments.

The interest rate swap contracts are designated hedges of the
    fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the
    benchmark London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) swap
    rate. The fair value changes in the notes attributable to
    changes in the benchmark interest rate are recorded in interest
    expense and offset by the fair value changes in the swap
    contracts. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as
    operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

The Company s investment portfolio includes cash
    equivalents and short-term investments, the market values of
    which are not significantly affected by changes in interest
    rates. The market value of the Company s medium- to
    long-term fixed-rate investments is modestly affected by changes
    in U.S. interest rates. Changes in medium- to long-term
    U.S. interest rates have a more significant impact on the
    market value of the Company s fixed-rate borrowings, which
    generally have longer maturities. A sensitivity analysis to
    measure potential changes in the market value of Merck s
    investments, debt and related swap contracts from a change in
    interest rates indicated that a one percentage point increase in
    interest rates at December 31, 2010 and 2009 would have
    positively affected the net aggregate market value of these
    instruments by $1.0 billion and $990 million,
    respectively. A one percentage point decrease at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 would have negatively affected
    the net aggregate market value by $1.2 billion in each
    year. The fair value of Merck s debt was determined using
    pricing models reflecting one percentage point shifts in the
    appropriate yield curves. The fair values of Merck s
    investments were determined using a combination of pricing and
    duration models.

Critical
    Accounting Policies and Other Matters  

The Company s consolidated financial statements include
    certain amounts that are based on management s best
    estimates and judgments. Estimates are used when accounting for
    amounts recorded in connection with mergers and acquisitions,
    including fair value determinations of assets and liabilities
    primarily IPR D and other intangible assets. Additionally,
    estimates are used in determining such items as current fair
    values of goodwill, in-process research and development and
    other intangibles, as well as provisions for sales discounts and
    returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of
    inventories, including those produced in preparation for product
    launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental
    liabilities and other reserves, pension and other postretirement
    benefit plan assumptions, share-based compensation assumptions,
    restructuring costs, impairments of long-lived assets (including
    intangible assets and goodwill) and investments, and taxes on
    income. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates,
    actual results may differ from these estimates. Application of
    the following accounting policies result in accounting estimates
    having the potential for the most significant impact on the
    financial statements.

Mergers
    and Acquisitions  

In a business combination, the acquisition method of accounting
    requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be
    recorded at the date of the merger or acquisition at their
    respective fair values with limited exceptions. Assets acquired
    and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise
    from contingencies are recognized at fair value if fair value
    can reasonably be estimated. If the acquisition date fair value
    of an asset acquired or liability assumed that arises from a
    contingency cannot be determined, the asset or liability is
    recognized if probable and reasonably estimable; if these
    criteria are not met, no asset or liability is recognized. Fair
    value is defined as the exchange price that would be received
    for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in
    the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or
    liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
    on the measurement date. Accordingly, the Company may be
    required to value assets at fair value measures that do not
    reflect the Company s intended use of those assets. Any
    excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over
    the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as
    goodwill. Transaction costs and costs to restructure the
    acquired company are expensed as incurred. The operating results
    of the acquired business are reflected in the Company s
    consolidated financial statements after the date of the merger
    or acquisition. If the Company determines the assets acquired do
    not meet the definition of a business under the acquisition
    method of accounting, the transaction will be accounted for as
    an acquisition of assets rather than a business combination, and
    therefore, no goodwill will be recorded. The fair value of
    intangible assets, including acquired IPR D, is based

81

on significant judgments made by management, and accordingly,
    for significant items, the Company typically obtains assistance
    from third party valuation specialists. Amounts allocated to
    acquired IPR D are capitalized and accounted for as
    indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to impairment
    testing until completion or abandonment of the projects. Upon
    successful completion of each project, Merck will make a
    separate determination as to the then useful life of the asset
    and begin amortization. The valuations and useful life
    assumptions are based on information available near the merger
    or acquisition date and are based on expectations and
    assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. The
    judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to
    assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives,
    can materially affect the Company s results of operations.

The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to
    currently marketed products and product rights are primarily
    determined by using an  income approach,  through
    which fair value is estimated based on each asset s
    discounted projected net cash flows. The Company s
    estimates of market participant net cash flows consider
    historical and projected pricing, margins and expense levels;
    the performance of competing products where applicable; relevant
    industry and therapeutic area growth drivers and factors;
    current and expected trends in technology and product life
    cycles; the time and investment that will be required to develop
    products and technologies; the ability to obtain marketing and
    regulatory approvals; the ability to manufacture and
    commercialize the products; the extent and timing of potential
    new product introductions by the Company s competitors; and
    the life of each asset s underlying patent, if any. The net
    cash flows are then probability-adjusted where appropriate to
    consider the uncertainties associated with the underlying
    assumptions, as well as the risk profile of the net cash flows
    utilized in the valuation. The probability-adjusted future net
    cash flows of each product are then discounted to present value
    utilizing an appropriate discount rate.

The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to
    IPR D are determined using an income approach, through
    which fair value is estimated based on each asset s
    probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the
    different stages of development of each product and the
    associated probability of successful completion. The net cash
    flows are then discounted to present value using an appropriate
    discount rate.

Revenue
    Recognition  

Revenues from sales of products are recognized at the time of
    delivery when title and risk of loss passes to the customer.
    Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable assurance of
    collection of sales proceeds and completion of all performance
    obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are issued to
    customers as direct discounts at the
     point-of-sale 
    or indirectly through an intermediary wholesaler, known as
    chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally,
    sales are generally made with a limited right of return under
    certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for
    sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time
    of sale.

The provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts covers
    chargebacks and rebates. Chargebacks are discounts that occur
    when a contracted customer purchases directly through an
    intermediary wholesaler. The contracted customer generally
    purchases product at its contracted price plus a
     mark-up  from
    the wholesaler. The wholesaler, in turn, charges the Company
    back for the difference between the price initially paid by the
    wholesaler and the contract price paid to the wholesaler by the
    customer. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected
    sell-through levels by the Company s wholesale customers to
    contracted customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory
    levels. Rebates are amounts owed based upon definitive
    contractual agreements or legal requirements with private sector
    and public sector (Medicaid and Medicare
    Part D) benefit providers, after the final dispensing
    of the product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. The
    provision is based on expected payments, which are driven by
    patient usage and contract performance by the benefit provider
    customers.

The Company uses historical customer segment mix, adjusted for
    other known events, in order to estimate the expected provision.
    Amounts accrued for aggregate indirect customer discounts are
    evaluated on a quarterly basis through comparison of information
    provided by the wholesalers, health maintenance organizations,
    pharmacy benefit managers and other customers to the amounts
    accrued. Adjustments are recorded when trends or significant
    events indicate that a change in the estimated provision is
    appropriate.

The Company continually monitors its provision for aggregate
    indirect customer discounts. There were no material adjustments
    to estimates associated with the aggregate indirect customer
    discount provision in 2010, 2009 or 2008.

82

Summarized information about changes in the aggregate indirect
    customer discount accrual is as follows:

Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to
    accounts receivable and accruals for rebates as current
    liabilities. The accrued balances relative to these provisions
    included in  Accounts receivable  and  Accrued and other
    current liabilities  were $117 million and
    $1.2 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010 and
    $115 million and $1.3 billion, respectively, at
    December 31, 2009.

The Company maintains a returns policy that allows its U.S.
    pharmaceutical customers to return product within a specified
    period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date
    (generally, three to six months before and twelve months after
    product expiration). The estimate of the provision for returns
    is based upon historical experience with actual returns.
    Additionally, the Company considers factors such as levels of
    inventory in the distribution channel, product dating and
    expiration period, whether products have been discontinued,
    entrance in the market of additional generic competition,
    changes in formularies or launch of
     over-the-counter 
    products, among others. The product returns provision for U.S.
    pharmaceutical sales was approximately 1.0% of net sales in 2010
    and 2009 and was not significant in 2008.

Through its distribution programs with U.S. wholesalers,
    the Company encourages wholesalers to align purchases with
    underlying demand and maintain inventories below specified
    levels. The terms of the programs allow the wholesalers to earn
    fees upon providing visibility into their inventory levels as
    well as by achieving certain performance parameters, such as,
    inventory management, customer service levels, reducing shortage
    claims and reducing product returns. Information provided
    through the wholesaler distribution programs includes items such
    as sales trends, inventory on-hand, on-order quantity and
    product returns.

Wholesalers generally provide only the above mentioned data to
    the Company, as there is no regulatory requirement to report lot
    level information to manufacturers, which is the level of
    information needed to determine the remaining shelf life and
    original sale date of inventory. Given current wholesaler
    inventory levels, which are generally less than a month, the
    Company believes that collection of order lot information across
    all wholesale customers would have limited use in estimating
    sales discounts and returns.

Inventories
    Produced in Preparation for Product Launches  

The Company capitalizes inventories produced in preparation for
    product launches sufficient to support estimated initial market
    demand. Typically, capitalization of such inventory does not
    begin until the related product candidates are in Phase III
    clinical trials and are considered to have a high probability of
    regulatory approval. The Company monitors the status of each
    respective product within the regulatory approval process;
    however, the Company generally does not disclose specific timing
    for regulatory approval. If the Company is aware of any specific
    risks or contingencies other than the normal regulatory approval
    process or if there are any specific issues identified during
    the research process relating to safety, efficacy,
    manufacturing, marketing or labeling, the related inventory
    would generally not be capitalized. Expiry dates of the
    inventory are affected by the stage of completion. The Company
    manages the levels of inventory at each stage to optimize the
    shelf life of the inventory in relation to anticipated market
    demand in order to avoid product expiry issues. For inventories
    that are capitalized, anticipated future sales and shelf lives
    support the realization of the inventory value as the inventory
    shelf life is sufficient to meet initial product launch
    requirements. Inventories produced in preparation for product
    launches capitalized at December 31, 2010 were
    $197 million and at December 31, 2009 were
    $87 million.

Contingencies
    and Environmental Liabilities  

The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings
    of a nature considered normal to its business, including product
    liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as
    well as additional matters

83

such as antitrust actions. (See Note 12 to the consolidated
    financial statements.) The Company records accruals for
    contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been
    incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These
    accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments change or
    additional information becomes available. For product liability
    claims, a portion of the overall accrual is actuarially
    determined and considers such factors as past experience, number
    of claims reported and estimates of claims incurred but not yet
    reported. Individually significant contingent losses are accrued
    when probable and reasonably estimable.

Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a
    loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably
    estimable. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had an
    aggregate reserve of approximately $110 million (the
      Vioxx  Legal Defense Costs Reserve ) solely for
    future legal defense costs related to (i) the  Vioxx
     Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the  Vioxx
     Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the  Vioxx  Foreign
    Lawsuits, and (iv) the  Vioxx  Investigations
    (collectively, the   Vioxx  Litigation ) (see
    Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). During
    2010, Merck spent approximately $140 million in the
    aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide, including
    approximately $31 million in the fourth quarter of 2010,
    related to the  Vioxx  Litigation. In addition, during
    2010, Merck recorded charges of $106 million of charges,
    including $46 million in the fourth quarter, solely for its
    future legal defense costs for the  Vioxx  Litigation.
    Consequently, as of December 31, 2010, the aggregate amount
    of the  Vioxx  Legal Defense Costs Reserve was
    approximately $76 million, which is solely for future legal
    defense costs for the  Vioxx  Litigation. Some of the
    significant factors considered in the review of the  Vioxx
     Legal Defense Costs Reserve were as follows: the actual
    costs incurred by the Company; the development of the
    Company s legal defense strategy and structure in light of
    the scope of the  Vioxx  Litigation, including the
    Settlement Agreement and the expectation that certain lawsuits
    will continue to be pending; the number of cases being brought
    against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials
    and the most current information regarding anticipated timing,
    progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities and
    trials in the  Vioxx  Litigation. The amount of the
     Vioxx  Legal Defense Costs Reserve as of December 31,
    2010 represents the Company s best estimate of the minimum
    amount of defense costs to be incurred in connection with the
    remaining aspects of the  Vioxx  Litigation; however,
    events such as additional trials in the  Vioxx  Litigation
    and other events that could arise in the course of the  Vioxx
     Litigation could affect the ultimate amount of defense costs
    to be incurred by the Company. The Company will continue to
    monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the
    associated reserves and may determine to increase the  Vioxx
     Legal Defense Costs Reserve at any time in the future if,
    based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be
    appropriate to do so.

There are three U.S.  Vioxx  Product Liability
    Lawsuits currently scheduled for trial in 2011. The Company
    cannot predict the timing of any other trials related to the
     Vioxx  Litigation. The Company believes that it has
    meritorious defenses to the  Vioxx  Lawsuits and will
    vigorously defend against them. In view of the inherent
    difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly
    where there are many claimants and the claimants seek
    indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the
    outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably
    estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the
     Vioxx  Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program.
    Other than the  Vioxx  Liability Reserve established with
    respect to the Department of Justice ( DOJ )
    investigation noted below, the Company has not established any
    reserves for any potential liability relating to the  Vioxx
     Lawsuits or the  Vioxx  Investigations. Unfavorable
    outcomes in the  Vioxx  Litigation could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company s financial position,
    liquidity and results of operations.

In addition to the  Vioxx  Legal Defense Costs Reserve, in
    2010, the Company established a $950 million  Vioxx
     Liability Reserve in connection with the anticipated
    resolution of the DOJ s investigation related to
     Vioxx . The Company s discussions with the government
    are ongoing. Until they are concluded, there can be no certainty
    about a definitive resolution.

The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of
    proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
    Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as
    Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. When a
    legitimate claim for contribution is asserted, a liability is
    initially accrued based upon the estimated transaction costs to
    manage the site. Accruals are adjusted as site investigations,
    feasibility studies and related cost assessments of remedial
    techniques are completed, and as the extent to which other
    potentially responsible parties who may be jointly and severally
    liable can be expected to contribute is determined.

84

The Company is also remediating environmental contamination
    resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites
    and takes an active role in identifying and providing for these
    costs. In the past, Old Merck performed a worldwide survey to
    assess all sites for potential contamination resulting from past
    industrial activities. Where assessment indicated that physical
    investigation was warranted, such investigation was performed,
    providing a better evaluation of the need for remedial action.
    Where such need was identified, remedial action was then
    initiated. As definitive information became available during the
    course of investigations
     and/or 
    remedial efforts at each site, estimates were refined and
    accruals were established or adjusted accordingly. These
    estimates and related accruals continue to be refined annually.
    A similar process is being followed for legacy Schering-Plough
    sites.

The Company believes that there are no compliance issues
    associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations
    that would have a material adverse effect on the Company.
    Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were
    $16 million in 2010, and are estimated at $81 million
    for the years 2011 through 2015. In management s opinion,
    the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable
    and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled
    $185 million and $162 million at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted,
    do not consider potential recoveries from other parties and will
    be paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable
    sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next
    15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with
    certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of
    remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably
    possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the
    liabilities accrued should exceed $150 million in the
    aggregate. Management also does not believe that these
    expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial position, results of operations,
    liquidity or capital resources for any year.

Share-Based
    Compensation  

The Company expenses all share-based payment awards to
    employees, including grants of stock options, over the requisite
    service period based on the grant date fair value of the awards.
    The Company determines the fair value of certain share-based
    awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model which uses
    both historical and current market data to estimate the fair
    value. This method incorporates various assumptions such as the
    risk-free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividend
    yield and expected life of the options.

Pensions
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans  

Net pension and other postretirement benefit cost totaled
    $696 million in 2010, $511 million in 2009 and
    $377 million in 2008. The higher costs in 2010 and 2009 as
    compared with 2008 are primarily due to incremental costs
    associated with the Merger. Pension and other postretirement
    benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is
    calculated using actuarial assumptions including a discount rate
    for plan benefit obligations and an expected rate of return on
    plan assets.

The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular
    basis. For both the pension and other postretirement benefit
    plans, the discount rate is evaluated on measurement dates and
    modified to reflect the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of
    high-quality fixed-income debt instruments that would provide
    the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the
    benefit obligation as they come due. At December 31, 2010,
    the discount rates for the Company s U.S. pension and
    other postretirement benefit plans ranged from 4.00% to 5.60%
    compared with a range of 4.60% to 6.00% at December 31,
    2009.

The expected rate of return for both the pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of
    return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits
    included in the benefit obligation are to be paid. In developing
    the expected rate of return, the Company considers long-term
    compound annualized returns of historical market data as well as
    actual returns on the Company s plan assets. Using this
    reference information, the Company develops forward-looking
    return expectations for each asset category and a weighted
    average expected long-term rate of return for a target portfolio
    allocated across these investment categories. The expected
    portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active
    management as appropriate. As a result of this analysis, for
    2011, the Company s expected rate of return will range from
    5.25% to 8.75% compared to a range of 8.00% to 8.75% in 2010 for
    its U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans.

The Company has established investment guidelines for its
    U.S. pension and other postretirement plans to create an
    asset allocation that is expected to deliver a rate of return
    sufficient to meet the long-term obligation of

85

each plan, given an acceptable level of risk. The target
    investment portfolio of the Company s U.S. pension and
    other postretirement benefit plans is allocated 45% to 60% in
    U.S. equities, 20% to 30% in international equities, 15% to
    25% in fixed-income investments, and up to 8% in cash and other
    investments. The portfolio s equity weighting is consistent
    with the long-term nature of the plans  benefit
    obligations. The expected annual standard deviation of returns
    of the target portfolio, which approximates 13%, reflects both
    the equity allocation and the diversification benefits among the
    asset classes in which the portfolio invests. For
     non-U.S. pension 
    plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the
    duration of pension liabilities and local government rules and
    regulations. Although a significant percentage of plan assets
    are invested in U.S. equities, concentration risk is
    mitigated through the use of strategies that are diversified
    within management guidelines.

Actuarial assumptions are based upon management s best
    estimates and judgment. A reasonably possible change of plus
    (minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption,
    with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated
    $79 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net
    pension and postretirement benefit cost. A reasonably possible
    change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the expected rate
    of return assumption, with other assumptions held constant,
    would have an estimated $33 million favorable (unfavorable)
    impact on its net pension and postretirement benefit cost.
    Required funding obligations for 2011 relating to the
    Company s pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    are not expected to be material. The preceding hypothetical
    changes in the discount rate and expected rate of return
    assumptions would not impact the Company s funding
    requirements.

Net loss amounts, which reflect experience differentials
    primarily relating to differences between expected and actual
    returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in
    actuarial assumptions, are recorded as a component of
     Accumulated other comprehensive income . Expected returns
    for pension plans are based on a calculated market-related value
    of assets. Under this methodology, asset gains/losses resulting
    from actual returns that differ from the Company s expected
    returns are recognized in the market-related value of assets
    ratably over a five-year period. Also, net loss amounts in
     Accumulated other comprehensive income  in excess of
    certain thresholds are amortized into net pension and other
    postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining service
    life of employees. Amortization of net losses for the
    Company s U.S. plans at December 31, 2010 is
    expected to increase net pension and other postretirement
    benefit cost by approximately $3 million annually from 2011
    through 2015.

Restructuring
    Costs  

Restructuring costs have been recorded in connection with
    restructuring programs designed to reduce the cost structure,
    increase efficiency and enhance competitiveness. As a result,
    the Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its
    future plans, including future termination benefits and other
    exit costs to be incurred when the restructuring actions take
    place. When accruing these costs, the Company will recognize the
    amount within a range of costs that is the best estimate within
    the range. When no amount within the range is a better estimate
    than any other amount, the Company recognizes the minimum amount
    within the range. In connection with these actions, management
    also assesses the recoverability of long-lived assets employed
    in the business. In certain instances, asset lives have been
    shortened based on changes in the expected useful lives of the
    affected assets. Severance and other related costs are reflected
    within  Restructuring costs . Asset-related charges are
    reflected within  Materials and production  costs,
     Marketing and administrative  expenses and  Research and
    development  expenses depending upon the nature of the asset.

Impairments
    of Long-Lived Assets  

The Company assesses changes in economic, regulatory and legal
    conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash
    flows in evaluating the value of the Company s property,
    plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets.

The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or
    circumstances indicate that the carrying values of its
    long-lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If
    such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of the
    undiscounted future cash flows of these assets, or appropriate
    asset groupings, is compared to the carrying value to determine
    whether an impairment exists. If the asset is determined to be
    impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between
    the asset s fair value and its carrying value. If quoted
    market prices are not available, the Company will estimate fair
    value using a discounted value of estimated future cash flows
    approach.

86

The Company tests its goodwill for impairment at least annually,
    or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, using a fair
    value based test. Goodwill represents the excess of the
    consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets of
    businesses purchased and is assigned to reporting units. Other
    acquired intangibles (excluding IPR D) are recorded at fair
    value and amortized on a straight-line basis over their
    estimated useful lives. When events or circumstances warrant a
    review, the Company will assess recoverability from future
    operations using pretax undiscounted cash flows derived from the
    lowest appropriate asset groupings. Impairments are recognized
    in operating results to the extent that the carrying value of
    the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined
    based on the net present value of estimated cash flows.

The Company tests its indefinite-lived intangibles, including
    IPR D, for impairment at least annually, or more frequently
    if impairment indicators exist, through a one-step test that
    compares the fair value of the indefinite lived intangible asset
    with the asset s carrying value. For impairment testing
    purposes, the Company may combine separately recorded
    indefinite-lived intangible assets into one unit of account
    based on the relevant facts and circumstances. Generally, the
    Company will combine indefinite-lived intangible assets for
    testing purposes if they operate as a single asset and are
    essentially inseparable. If the fair value is less than the
    carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized within the
    Company s operating results.

Impairments
    of Investments  

The Company reviews its investments for impairments based on the
    determination of whether the decline in market value of the
    investment below the carrying value is
     other-than-temporary. 
    The Company considers available evidence in evaluating potential
    impairments of its investments, including the duration and
    extent to which fair value is less than cost, and for equity
    securities, the Company s ability and intent to hold the
    investments. For a debt security, an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment has occurred if the Company does not expect to
    recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. If
    the Company does not intend to sell the impaired debt security,
    and it is not more likely than not it will be required to sell
    the debt security before the recovery of its amortized cost
    basis, the amount of the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment recognized in earnings is limited to the portion
    attributed to credit loss. The remaining portion of the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment related to other factors is recognized in  OCI .

Taxes on
    Income  

The Company s effective tax rate is based on pretax income,
    statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in
    the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. An
    estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to the
    Company s quarterly operating results. In the event that
    there is a significant unusual or one-time item recognized, or
    expected to be recognized, in the Company s quarterly
    operating results, the tax attributable to that item would be
    separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the
    unusual or one-time item. The Company considers the resolution
    of prior year tax matters to be such items. Significant judgment
    is required in determining the Company s tax provision and
    in evaluating its tax positions. The recognition and measurement
    of a tax position is based on management s best judgment
    given the facts, circumstances and information available at the
    reporting date. The Company evaluates tax positions to determine
    whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not
    of being sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of
    the tax position. For tax positions that are more likely than
    not of being sustained upon audit, the Company recognizes the
    largest amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of
    being realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial
    statements. For tax positions that are not more likely than not
    of being sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize
    any portion of the benefit in the financial statements. If the
    more likely than not threshold is not met in the period for
    which a tax position is taken, the Company may subsequently
    recognize the benefit of that tax position if the tax matter is
    effectively settled, the statute of limitations expires, or if
    the more likely than not threshold is met in a subsequent
    period. (See Note 17 to the consolidated financial
    statements.)

Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return
    at different times than the items are reflected in the financial
    statements. Timing differences create deferred tax assets and
    liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that
    can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the tax return in
    future years for which the Company has already recorded the tax
    benefit in the financial statements. The Company establishes
    valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets when the amount
    of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the
    use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities
    generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial
    statements for which payment has been deferred or expense for
    which the Company has already taken a deduction

87

on the tax return, but has not yet recognized as expense in the
    financial statements. At December 31, 2010, foreign
    earnings of $40.4 billion have been retained indefinitely
    by subsidiary companies for reinvestment, therefore no provision
    has been made for income taxes that would be payable upon the
    distribution of such earnings.

Recently
    Issued Accounting Standards  

In October 2009, the FASB issued new guidance for revenue
    recognition with multiple deliverables, which is effective for
    revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in
    fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, although
    early adoption is permitted. This guidance eliminates the
    residual method under the current guidance and replaces it with
    the  relative selling price  method when allocating
    revenue in a multiple deliverable arrangement. The selling price
    for each deliverable shall be determined using vendor specific
    objective evidence of selling price, if it exists, otherwise
    third-party evidence of selling price shall be used. If neither
    exists for a deliverable, the vendor shall use its best estimate
    of the selling price for that deliverable. After adoption, this
    guidance will also require expanded qualitative and quantitative
    disclosures. The Company is currently assessing the impact of
    adoption on its financial position and results of operations.

In January 2010, the FASB amended the existing disclosure
    guidance on fair value measurements, which is effective
    January 1, 2010, except for disclosures about purchases,
    sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of
    activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which is
    effective January 1, 2011. Among other things, the updated
    guidance requires additional disclosure for significant
    transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2
    measurements and requires certain Level 3 disclosures on a
    gross basis. Additionally, the updates amend existing guidance
    to require a greater level of disaggregated information and more
    robust disclosures about valuation techniques and inputs to fair
    value measurements. Since the amended guidance requires only
    additional disclosures, the adoption of the provisions effective
    January 1, 2011 will not affect the Company s
    financial position or results of operations.

Cautionary
    Factors That May Affect Future Results  

This report and other written reports and oral statements made
    from time to time by the Company may contain so-called
     forward-looking statements,  all of which are based
    on management s current expectations and are subject to
    risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ
    materially from those set forth in the statements. One can
    identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words
    such as  anticipates,   expects, 
     plans,   will,   estimates, 
     forecasts,   projects  and other words of
    similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that
    they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
    These statements are likely to address the Company s growth
    strategy, financial results, product development, product
    approvals, product potential and development programs. One must
    carefully consider any such statement and should understand that
    many factors could cause actual results to differ materially
    from the Company s forward-looking statements. These
    factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of
    other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and
    some that are not. No forward-looking statement can be
    guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially.

The Company does not assume the obligation to update any
    forward-looking statement. One should carefully evaluate such
    statements in light of factors, including risk factors,
    described in the Company s filings with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission, especially on
     Forms 10-K, 
     10-Q  and
     8-K.  In
    Item 1A.  Risk Factors  of this annual report on
     Form 10-K 
    the Company discusses in more detail various important risk
    factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected
    or historic results. The Company notes these factors for
    investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995. One should understand that it is not
    possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently,
    the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete
    statement of all potential risks or uncertainties.

Item 7A.    

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  

The information required by this Item is incorporated by
    reference to the discussion under  Financial Instruments
    Market Risk Disclosures  in Item 7.
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations. 

88

Item 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.  

(a)    

Financial
    Statements  

The consolidated balance sheet of Merck   Co., Inc.
    and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the
    related consolidated statements of income, of equity and of cash
    flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2010, the notes to consolidated financial
    statements, and the report dated February 25, 2011 of
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public
    accounting firm, are as follows:

Consolidated
    Statement of Income  

Merck   Co., Inc. and
    Subsidiaries

Years Ended December 31 

($ in millions except per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
    consolidated financial statement. 

89

Consolidated
    Balance Sheet  

Merck   Co., Inc. and
    Subsidiaries

December 31 

($ in millions except per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
    consolidated financial statement. 

90

Consolidated
    Statement of Equity  

Merck   Co., Inc. and
    Subsidiaries

Years Ended December 31 

($ in millions except per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
    consolidated financial statement. 

91

Consolidated
    Statement of Cash Flows  

Merck   Co., Inc. and
    Subsidiaries

Years Ended December 31 

($ in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
    consolidated financial statement. 

92

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  

Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries

($ in millions except per share amounts) 

1.    

Nature of
    Operations  

The Company is a global health care company that delivers
    innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines,
    vaccines, biologic therapies, animal health, and consumer care
    products, which it markets directly and through its joint
    ventures. The Company s operations are principally managed
    on a products basis and are comprised of four operating
    segments, which are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Consumer
    Care and Alliances segments, and one reportable segment, which
    is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment
    includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products
    marketed either directly by the Company or through joint
    ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of
    therapeutic and preventive agents, sold by prescription, for the
    treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human
    health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and
    retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health
    care providers such as health maintenance organizations,
    pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine
    products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult
    vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The
    Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to
    physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government
    entities. The Company also has animal health operations that
    discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health
    products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to
    veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Additionally,
    the Company has consumer care operations that develop,
    manufacture and market
     over-the-counter, 
    foot care and sun care products, which are sold through
    wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser
    outlets in the United States and Canada.

On November 3, 2009, Merck   Co., Inc. ( Old
    Merck ) and Schering-Plough Corporation
    ( Schering-Plough ) merged (the  Merger ).
    In the Merger, Schering-Plough acquired all of the shares of Old
    Merck, which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schering-Plough
    and was renamed Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.
    Schering-Plough continued as the surviving public company and
    was renamed Merck   Co., Inc. ( New Merck 
    or the  Company ). However, for accounting purposes
    only, the Merger was treated as an acquisition with Old Merck
    considered the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the
    accompanying financial statements reflect Old Merck s
    stand-alone operations as they existed prior to the completion
    of the Merger. The results of Schering-Plough s business
    have been included in New Merck s financial statements only
    for periods subsequent to the completion of the Merger.
    Therefore, New Merck s financial results for 2009 do not
    reflect a full year of legacy Schering-Plough operations.
    References in these financial statements to  Merck 
    for periods prior to the Merger refer to Old Merck and for
    periods after the completion of the Merger to New Merck.

2.    

Summary
    of Accounting Policies  

Principles of Consolidation    The consolidated
    financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all
    of its subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is
    maintained. Intercompany balances and transactions are
    eliminated. Controlling interest is determined by majority
    ownership interest and the absence of substantive third-party
    participating rights or, in the case of variable interest
    entities, by majority exposure to expected losses, residual
    returns or both. For those consolidated subsidiaries where Merck
    ownership is less than 100%, the outside shareholders 
    interests are shown as  Noncontrolling interests  in
    equity. Investments in affiliates over which the Company has
    significant influence but not a controlling interest, such as
    interests in entities owned equally by the Company and a third
    party that are under shared control, are carried on the equity
    basis.

Mergers and Acquisitions    In a business
    combination, the acquisition method of accounting requires that
    the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the
    date of the merger or acquisition at their respective fair
    values with limited exceptions. Assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies
    are recognized at fair value if fair value can reasonably be
    estimated. If the acquisition date fair value of an asset
    acquired or liability assumed that arises from a contingency
    cannot be determined, the asset or liability is recognized if
    probable and reasonably estimable; if these criteria are not
    met, no asset or liability is recognized. Fair value is defined
    as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or
    paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or
    most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an
    orderly

93

transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
    Accordingly, the Company may be required to value assets at fair
    value measures that do not reflect the Company s intended
    use of those assets. Any excess of the purchase price
    (consideration transferred) over the estimated fair values of
    net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs
    and costs to restructure the acquired company are expensed as
    incurred. The operating results of the acquired business are
    reflected in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements after the date of the merger or acquisition. If the
    Company determines the assets acquired do not meet the
    definition of a business under the acquisition method of
    accounting, the transaction will be accounted for as an
    acquisition of assets rather than a business combination, and
    therefore, no goodwill will be recorded.

Foreign Currency Translation    The net assets
    of international subsidiaries where the local currencies have
    been determined to be the functional currencies are translated
    into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The
    U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net
    assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recorded in
    the foreign currency translation account, which is included in
     Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
    (  AOCI  ) and reflected as a separate component
    of equity. For those subsidiaries that operate in highly
    inflationary economies and for those subsidiaries where the
    U.S. dollar has been determined to be the functional
    currency, non-monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities
    are translated using historical rates, while monetary assets and
    liabilities are translated at current rates, with the
    U.S. dollar effects of rate changes included in  Other
    (income) expense, net . As a result of the Merger, the
    functional currency of the operations at each of the
    Company s international subsidiaries is being reevaluated
    and has resulted or may result in a change in functional
    currency.

Cash Equivalents    Cash equivalents are
    comprised of certain highly liquid investments with original
    maturities of less than three months.

Inventories    Inventories are valued at the
    lower of cost or market. The cost of a substantial majority of
    domestic pharmaceutical and vaccine inventories is determined
    using the
     last-in, 
    first-out ( LIFO ) method for both financial reporting
    and tax purposes. The cost of all other inventories is
    determined using the
     first-in, 
    first-out ( FIFO ) method. Inventories consist of
    currently marketed products and certain products awaiting
    regulatory approval. In evaluating the recoverability of
    inventories produced in preparation for product launches, the
    Company considers the probability that revenue will be obtained
    from the future sale of the related inventory together with the
    status of the product within the regulatory approval process.

Investments    Investments in marketable debt
    and equity securities classified as
     available-for-sale 
    are reported at fair value. Fair value of the Company s
    investments is determined using quoted market prices in active
    markets for identical assets or liabilities or quoted prices for
    similar assets or liabilities or other inputs that are
    observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for
    substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
    Changes in fair value that are considered temporary are reported
    net of tax in  AOCI . For declines in the fair value of
    equity securities that are considered
     other-than-temporary, 
    impairment losses are charged to  Other (income) expense,
    net . The Company considers available evidence in evaluating
    potential impairments of its investments, including the duration
    and extent to which fair value is less than cost, and for equity
    securities, the Company s ability and intent to hold the
    investment. For debt securities, an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment has occurred if the Company does not expect to
    recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. If
    the Company does not intend to sell the impaired debt security,
    and it is not more likely than not it will be required to sell
    the debt security before the recovery of its amortized cost
    basis, the amount of the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment recognized in earnings, recorded in  Other (income)
    expense, net , is limited to the portion attributed to credit
    loss. The remaining portion of the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment related to other factors is recognized in
     AOCI . Realized gains and losses for both debt and equity
    securities are included in  Other (income) expense, net. 

Revenue Recognition    Revenues from sales of
    products are recognized at the time of delivery when title and
    risk of loss passes to the customer. Recognition of revenue also
    requires reasonable assurance of collection of sales proceeds
    and completion of all performance obligations. Domestically,
    sales discounts are issued to customers as direct discounts at
    the
     point-of-sale 
    or indirectly through an intermediary wholesaler, known as
    chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally,
    sales are generally made with a limited right of return under
    certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for
    sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time
    of sale. Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct
    reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates are
    recorded as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative
    to these provisions included in  Accounts receivable  

94

and  Accrued and other current liabilities  were
    $117 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, at
    December 31, 2010 and $115 million and
    $1.3 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009.

The Company recognizes revenue from the sales of vaccines to the
    Federal government for placement into vaccine stockpiles in
    accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission
    ( SEC ) Interpretation , Commission Guidance
    Regarding Accounting for Sales of Vaccines and BioTerror
    Countermeasures to the Federal Government for Placement into the
    Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile or the Strategic National
    Stockpile .

Depreciation    Depreciation is provided over
    the estimated useful lives of the assets, principally using the
    straight-line method. For tax purposes, accelerated tax methods
    are used. The estimated useful lives primarily range from 10 to
    50 years for Buildings, and from 3 to 15 years for
    Machinery, equipment and office furnishings.

Software Capitalization    The Company
    capitalizes certain costs incurred in connection with obtaining
    or developing internal-use software including external direct
    costs of material and services, and payroll costs for employees
    directly involved with the software development. Capitalized
    software costs are included in  Property, plant and equipment
     and amortized beginning when the software project is
    substantially complete and the asset is ready for its intended
    use. Capitalized software costs associated with the
    Company s multi-year implementation of an enterprise-wide
    resource planning system are being amortized over 6 to
    10 years. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, there was
    approximately $457 million and $428 million,
    respectively, of remaining unamortized capitalized software
    costs associated with this initiative. All other capitalized
    software costs are being amortized over periods ranging from 3
    to 5 years. Costs incurred during the preliminary project
    stage and post-implementation stage, as well as maintenance and
    training costs, are expensed as incurred.

Goodwill    Goodwill represents the excess of
    the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets
    of businesses purchased. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units
    and evaluated for impairment on at least an annual basis, or
    more frequently if impairment indicators are present, using a
    fair value based test. Based upon the Company s most recent
    annual impairment test completed as of October 1, 2010, the
    fair value of each reporting unit was in excess of its carrying
    value.

Acquired Intangibles    Acquired intangibles
    include products and product rights, tradenames and patents,
    which are recorded at fair value, assigned an estimated useful
    life, and are amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over
    their estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 40 years
    (see Note 9). When events or circumstances warrant a
    review, the Company will assess recoverability from future
    operations of acquired intangibles using pretax undiscounted
    cash flows derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings.
    Impairments are recognized in operating results to the extent
    that carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair
    value, which is determined based on the net present value of
    estimated future cash flows.

In-Process Research and Development  
     In-process research and development ( IPR D )
    represents the fair value assigned to incomplete research
    projects that the Company acquires through business combinations
    which, at the time of acquisition, have not reached
    technological feasibility. For transactions that closed prior to
    2009, the fair value of such projects was expensed upon
    acquisition. For transactions that closed during 2009 and
    thereafter, the fair value of the research projects were
    recorded as intangible assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
    rather than expensed. The amounts capitalized are being
    accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to
    impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the
    projects. Upon successful completion of each project, Merck will
    make a determination as to the useful life of the intangible
    asset, generally determined by the period in which substantially
    all of the cash flows are expected to be generated, and begin
    amortization. The Company tests its indefinite-lived
    intangibles, including IPR D, for impairment at least
    annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist,
    through a one-step test that compares the fair value of the
    indefinite-lived intangible asset with the asset s carrying
    value.

Research and Development    Research and
    development is expensed as incurred. Upfront and milestone
    payments due to third parties in connection with research and
    development collaborations prior to regulatory approval are
    expensed as incurred. Payments due to third parties upon or
    subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized
    over the shorter of the remaining license or product patent
    life. Nonrefundable advance payments for goods and services that
    will be used in future research and development activities are
    expensed when the activity has been performed or when the goods
    have been received rather than when the payment is made.

95

Research and development expenses include $2.4 billion of
    IPR D impairment charges in 2010 and restructuring costs in
    all periods.

Share-Based Compensation    The Company expenses
    all share-based payments to employees over the requisite service
    period based on the grant-date fair value of the awards.

Restructuring Costs    The Company records
    liabilities for costs associated with exit or disposal
    activities in the period in which the liability is incurred. In
    accordance with existing benefit arrangements, employee
    termination costs are accrued when the restructuring actions are
    probable and estimable. When accruing these costs, the Company
    will recognize the amount within a range of costs that is the
    best estimate within the range. When no amount within the range
    is a better estimate than any other amount, the Company
    recognizes the minimum amount within the range. Costs for
    one-time termination benefits in which the employee is required
    to render service until termination in order to receive the
    benefits are recognized ratably over the future service period.

Contingencies and Legal Defense Costs    The
    Company records accruals for contingencies and legal defense
    costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss
    contingency when it is probable that a liability has been
    incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.

Taxes on Income    Deferred taxes are recognized
    for the future tax effects of temporary differences between
    financial and income tax reporting based on enacted tax laws and
    rates. The Company evaluates tax positions to determine whether
    the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being
    sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax
    position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of
    being sustained upon audit, the Company recognizes the largest
    amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being
    realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements.
    For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being
    sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize any portion
    of the benefit in the financial statements. The Company
    recognizes interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax
    positions as a component of  Taxes on income  in the
    Consolidated Statement of Income.

Use of Estimates    The consolidated financial
    statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ) and,
    accordingly, include certain amounts that are based on
    management s best estimates and judgments. Estimates are
    used when accounting for amounts recorded in connection with
    mergers and acquisitions, including fair value determinations of
    assets and liabilities primarily IPR D and other intangible
    assets. Additionally, estimates are used in determining such
    items as current fair values of goodwill, IPR D and other
    intangibles, as well as provisions for sales discounts and
    returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of
    inventories, including those produced in preparation for product
    launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental
    liabilities and other reserves, pension and other postretirement
    benefit plan assumptions, share-based compensation assumptions,
    restructuring costs, impairments of long-lived assets (including
    intangible assets and goodwill) and investments, and taxes on
    income. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates,
    actual results may differ from these estimates.

Reclassifications    Certain reclassifications
    have been made to prior year amounts to conform with the current
    year presentation.

Recently Adopted Accounting Standards    During
    2010, several new accounting standards issued by the FASB were
    adopted.

On January 1, 2010, the Company adopted new guidance on the
    accounting and disclosure requirements for transfers of
    financial assets, which eliminated the concept of a qualifying
    special-purpose entity, changed the requirements for
    derecognizing financial assets and required enhanced disclosures
    to provide financial statement users with greater transparency
    about transfers of financial assets, including securitization
    transactions, and an entity s continuing involvement in and
    exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets.
    The effect of adoption on the Company s financial position
    and results of operations was not material.

On January 1, 2010, the Company adopted new accounting and
    disclosure guidance for the consolidation of variable interest
    entities, which required enhanced disclosures intended to
    provide users of financial statements with more transparent
    information about an enterprise s involvement in a variable
    interest entity. The effect of adoption on the Company s
    financial position and results of operations was not material.

96

Recently Issued Accounting Standards    The FASB
    has issued several new accounting pronouncements, which are not
    yet effective for the Company.

In October 2009, the FASB issued new guidance for revenue
    recognition with multiple deliverables, which is effective for
    revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in
    fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, although
    early adoption is permitted. This guidance eliminates the
    residual method under the current guidance and replaces it with
    the  relative selling price  method when allocating
    revenue in a multiple deliverable arrangement. The selling price
    for each deliverable shall be determined using vendor specific
    objective evidence of selling price, if it exists, otherwise
    third-party evidence of selling price shall be used. If neither
    exists for a deliverable, the vendor shall use its best estimate
    of the selling price for that deliverable. After adoption, this
    guidance will also require expanded qualitative and quantitative
    disclosures. The Company is currently assessing the impact of
    adoption on its financial position and results of operations.

In January 2010, the FASB amended the existing disclosure
    guidance on fair value measurements, which is effective
    January 1, 2010, except for disclosures about purchases,
    sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of
    activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which is
    effective January 1, 2011. Among other things, the updated
    guidance requires additional disclosure for the amounts of
    significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and
    Level 2 measurements and requires certain Level 3
    disclosures on a gross basis. Additionally, the updates amend
    existing guidance to require a greater level of disaggregated
    information and more robust disclosures about valuation
    techniques and inputs to fair value measurements. Since the
    amended guidance requires only additional disclosures, the
    adoption of the provisions effective January 1, 2010 did
    not, and for the provisions effective in 2011 will not, impact
    the Company s financial position or results of operations.

On November 3, 2009, Old Merck and Schering-Plough
    completed the Merger. In the Merger, Schering-Plough acquired
    all of the shares of Old Merck, which became a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of Schering-Plough and was renamed Merck
    Sharp   Dohme Corp. Schering-Plough continued as the
    surviving public company and was renamed Merck   Co.,
    Inc. However, for accounting purposes only, the Merger was
    treated as an acquisition with Old Merck considered the
    accounting acquirer. Under the terms of the Merger agreement,
    each issued and outstanding share of Schering-Plough common
    stock was converted into the right to receive a combination of
    $10.50 in cash and 0.5767 of a share of the common stock of New
    Merck. Each issued and outstanding share of Old Merck common
    stock was automatically converted into a share of the common
    stock of New Merck. Based on the closing price of Old Merck
    stock on November 3, 2009, the consideration received by
    Schering-Plough shareholders was valued at $28.19 per share, or
    $49.6 billion in the aggregate. The cash portion of the
    consideration was funded with a combination of existing cash,
    including from the sale of Old Merck s interest in Merial
    Limited, the sale or redemption of investments and the issuance
    of debt. Upon completion of the Merger, each issued and
    outstanding share of Schering-Plough 6% Mandatory Convertible
    Preferred Stock ( Schering-Plough 6% preferred stock )
    not converted in accordance with the terms of the preferred
    stock remained outstanding as one share of Merck 6% Mandatory
    Convertible Preferred Stock ( 6% preferred stock )
    having the rights set forth in the New Merck certificate of
    incorporation which rights were substantially similar to the
    rights of the Schering-Plough 6% preferred stock. In August
    2010, the outstanding 6% preferred stock automatically converted
    by its terms into the right to receive cash and shares of Merck
    common stock (see Note 13).

The Merger expanded the Company s pipeline of product
    candidates, broadened the Company s commercial portfolio,
    expanded its global presence and increased its manufacturing
    capabilities. Additionally,

97

the Company expects to realize substantial cost savings and
    synergies, including opportunities for consolidation in both
    sales and marketing and research and development.

Calculation
    of Consideration Transferred (in millions except per share/unit
    amounts)  

(1)   

Upon completion of the Merger and for a period of
    15 days thereafter, holders of 6% preferred stock were
    entitled to convert each share of 6% preferred stock into a
    number of units of merger consideration equal to the
     make-whole  conversion rate of 8.2021 determined in
    accordance with the terms of the preferred stock. This amount
    represents the units of merger consideration relating to the 6%
    preferred stock converted by those holders in the
     15-day 
    period following the Merger. 

(2)   

Represents the present value of all remaining dividend
    payments (from the conversion date through the mandatory
    conversion date on August 13, 2010) paid to holders of
    6% preferred stock that elected to convert in connection with
    the Merger using the discount rate as stipulated by the terms of
    the preferred stock. 

(3)   

Represents the cash consideration paid to holders of
    Schering-Plough deferred stock units issued in 2007 and prior
    which were converted into the right to receive cash as specified
    in the Merger agreement attributable to precombination
    service. 

(4)   

Represents the fair value of Schering-Plough stock option,
    performance share unit and deferred stock unit replacement
    awards attributable to precombination service issued to holders
    of these awards in the Merger. The fair value of outstanding
    Schering-Plough stock option and performance share unit awards
    issued in 2007 and prior, which immediately vested at the
    effective time of the Merger, was attributed to precombination
    service and included in the consideration transferred. Stock
    option, performance share unit and deferred stock unit awards
    for 2008 and 2009 did not immediately vest upon completion of
    the Merger. For these awards, the fair value of the awards
    attributed to precombination service was included as part of the
    consideration transferred and the fair value attributed to
    postcombination service is being recognized as compensation cost
    over the requisite service period in the postcombination
    financial statements of New Merck. 

Allocation
    of Consideration Transferred to Net Assets Acquired  

A preliminary allocation of the consideration transferred to the
    net assets of Schering-Plough was made as of the date of the
    Merger (the  Merger Date ). During 2010, the Company
    adjusted the preliminary values assigned to certain assets and
    liabilities in order to reflect additional information obtained
    since the preliminary allocation was made that pertained to
    facts and circumstances that existed as of the Merger Date.
    These measurement period adjustments have been reflected in the
    opening balance sheet; however, since the adjustments did not
    have a

98

significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or
    cash flows in any period, those statements were not
    retrospectively adjusted.

The following table summarizes the determination of the fair
    value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in
    the Merger:

(1)   

In connection with the Merger, the Company obtained a
    controlling interest in the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership.
    The table above reflects Schering-Plough s share of the
    fair value of the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership s net
    assets including intangibles and inventories. Not reflected in
    this table is Merck s share of the fair value of the
    Merck/Schering-Plough partnership s net assets recorded in
    connection with the fair value adjustment to Merck s
    previously held equity interest in the partnership (see
     Merck/Schering-Plough Partnership  below). 

(2)   

IPR D represents the fair value assigned to incomplete
    research projects which, at the time of the Merger, had not
    reached technological feasibility. The amounts were capitalized
    and are being accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible
    assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or
    abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of each
    project, Merck will make a determination as to the useful life
    of the asset and begin amortization (see  In-Process
    Research and Development  below). 

(3)   

The goodwill recognized is largely attributable to
    anticipated synergies expected to arise after the Merger.
    Approximately $8.9 billion of the goodwill has been
    allocated to the Pharmaceutical segment. The remainder of the
    goodwill was allocated to other non-reportable segments. The
    goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. 

(4)   

The measurement period adjustments primarily reflect
    adjustments to income tax liabilities, changes in the estimated
    fair value of certain intangible assets and the corresponding
    impacts to goodwill. 

In order to allocate the Merger consideration, the Company
    estimated the fair value of the assets and liabilities of
    Schering-Plough. No contingent assets or liabilities were
    recognized at fair value as of the Merger Date because the fair
    value of such contingencies could not be determined. Contingent
    liabilities were recorded to the extent the amounts were
    probable and reasonably estimable (see Note 12). For
    accounting and financial reporting purposes, fair value is
    defined as the price that would be received upon sale of an
    asset or the amount paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
    transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
    Market participants are assumed to be buyers and sellers in the
    principal (most advantageous) market for the asset or liability.
    Additionally, fair value measurements for an asset assume the
    highest and best use of that asset by market participants. Use
    of different estimates and judgments could yield different
    results.

99

The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to
    currently marketed products and product rights were primarily
    determined by using an  income approach  through which
    fair value is estimated based on each asset s discounted
    projected net cash flows. The Company s estimates of market
    participant net cash flows considered historical and projected
    pricing, margins and expense levels; the performance of
    competing products where applicable; relevant industry and
    therapeutic area growth drivers and factors; current and
    expected trends in technology and product life cycles; the time
    and investment that will be required to develop products and
    technologies; the ability to obtain marketing and regulatory
    approvals; the ability to manufacture and commercialize the
    products; the extent and timing of potential new product
    introductions by the Company s competitors; and the life of
    each asset s underlying patent, if any. The net cash flows
    were then probability-adjusted where appropriate to consider the
    uncertainties associated with the underlying assumptions, as
    well as the risk profile of the net cash flows utilized in the
    valuation. The probability-adjusted future net cash flows of
    each product were then discounted to present value utilizing an
    appropriate discount rate.

In-Process
    Research and Development  

In connection with the Merger, the Company recorded the fair
    value of human and animal health research projects that were
    underway at Schering-Plough and the MSP Partnership. The fair
    value of projects allocated to the Pharmaceutical and Animal
    Health operating segments was $5.3 billion and
    $1.3 billion, respectively. The amounts were capitalized
    and are being accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible
    assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or
    abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of a
    project, Merck will make a determination as to the then useful
    life of the asset and begin amortization.

The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to
    IPR D were determined by using an income approach, through
    which fair value is estimated based on each asset s
    probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the
    different stages of development of each product and the
    associated probability of successful completion. The net cash
    flows were then discounted to present value using discount rates
    which ranged from 12% to 15%. Actual cash flows are likely to be
    different than those assumed.

Some of the more significant projects include boceprevir,
     Bridion  and vorapaxar, as well as an
    ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product. Boceprevir is an
    investigational hepatitis C protease inhibitor that has
    been accepted for expedited review in both the United States and
    the European Union ( EU ).  Bridion  (sugammadex)
    is a medication designed to rapidly reverse the effects of
    certain muscle relaxants used as part of general anesthesia.
     Bridion  has received regulatory approval in the EU and
    several other countries around the world and is under regulatory
    review in other markets. Ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin is
    an investigational medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia.

During 2010, the Company recorded $2.4 billion of
    IPR D impairment charges, which were recorded in
     Research and development  expense. Of this amount,
    $1.7 billion related to the write-down of the vorapaxar
    intangible asset. The Company determined that developments in
    the clinical research program for vorapaxar, including the
    termination of a clinical trial, constituted a triggering event
    that required the Company to evaluate the vorapaxar intangible
    asset for impairment. Although there is a great deal of
    information related to these developments that remains unknown
    to the Company, utilizing market participant assumptions, and
    considering several different scenarios, the Company concluded
    that its best estimate of the current fair value of the
    intangible asset related to vorapaxar was $350 million
    which resulted in the recognition of an impairment charge of
    $1.7 billion during 2010. The Company will continue to
    monitor the remaining asset value for further impairment. The
    Company anticipates the results from the TRACER clinical trial
    will be available later in 2011. Also during 2010, the Company
    recorded an additional $763 million of IPR D
    impairment charges attributable to compounds that were abandoned
    and determined to have either no alternative use or were
    returned to the respective licensor, as well as from expected
    delays in the launch timing or changes in the cash flow
    assumptions for certain compounds.

All of the IPR D projects that remain in development are
    subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties in drug
    development and it is possible that the Company will not be able
    to successfully develop and complete the IPR D programs and
    profitably commercialize the underlying product candidates.

100

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Partnership  

Upon consummation of the Merger, the Company obtained a
    controlling interest in the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership
    (the  MSP Partnership ) and it is now wholly-owned by
    the Company. Previously the Company had a noncontrolling
    interest. As a result of obtaining a controlling interest, the
    Company was required to remeasure Merck s previously held
    equity interest in the MSP Partnership at its Merger Date fair
    value and recognize the resulting gain of $7.5 billion in
    earnings in  Other (income) expense, net  in 2009. In
    conjunction with this remeasurement, the Company recorded
    intangible assets of approximately $7.3 billion, which
    included IPR D, and approximately $0.3 billion of
     step-up  in
    inventories.

Merger-Related
    Costs  

Merger-related costs are being expensed as incurred. For the
    year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred
    $396 million of integration costs and $1.8 billion of
    restructuring costs, including exit costs, in connection with
    the Merger (see Note 4). For the year ended
    December 31, 2009, Merck incurred $136 million of
    transaction costs directly related to the Merger (including
    advisory and legal fees), $235 million of integration costs
    and $1.5 billion of restructuring costs. These costs were
    recognized within  Marketing and administrative  expenses
    and  Restructuring costs . Additionally during 2009,
    $173 million of interest costs were recognized in
    connection with debt that was issued to partially fund the
    Merger.

Supplemental
    Pro Forma Data  

Schering-Plough s results of operations have been included
    in New Merck s financial statements for periods subsequent
    to the completion of the Merger. Schering-Plough contributed
    revenues of $3.4 billion and estimated losses of
    $2.2 billion to New Merck for the period from the
    consummation of the Merger through December 31, 2009.
     The following
    unaudited supplemental pro forma data presents consolidated
    information as if the Merger had been completed on
    January 1, 2008:

The unaudited supplemental pro forma data reflect the
    application of the following adjustments:

The consolidation of the MSP Partnership which is now
    wholly-owned by the Company and the corresponding gain resulting
    from the Company s remeasurement of its previously held
    equity interest in the MSP Partnership;

Additional depreciation and amortization expense that would have
    been recognized assuming fair value adjustments to inventory,
    property, plant and equipment and intangible assets;

Additional interest expense and financing costs that would have
    been incurred on borrowing arrangements and loss of interest
    income on cash and short-term investments used to fund the
    Merger;

Transaction costs associated with the Merger; and

Conversion of a portion of outstanding 6% preferred stock.

The unaudited supplemental pro forma financial information does
    not reflect the potential realization of cost savings relating
    to the integration of the two companies. The pro forma data
    should not be considered indicative of the results that would
    have occurred if the Merger and related borrowings had been
    consummated on January 1, 2008, nor are they indicative of
    future results.

101

4.    

Restructuring  

Merger
    Restructuring Program  

In February 2010, the Company commenced actions under a global
    restructuring program (the  Merger Restructuring
    Program ) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy
    Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger
    Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure
    of the combined company. Additional actions under the program
    continued during 2010. As part of the restructuring actions
    taken thus far under the Merger Restructuring Program, the
    Company expects to reduce its total workforce measured at the
    time of the Merger by approximately 17% across the Company
    worldwide. In addition, the Company has eliminated over 2,500
    positions which were vacant at the time of the Merger. These
    workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of
    duplicative positions in sales, administrative and headquarters
    organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain
    manufacturing and research and development sites and the
    consolidation of office facilities. During this period, the
    Company will continue to hire new employees in strategic growth
    areas of the business as necessary. Merck plans to phase out
    operations at certain research and manufacturing sites, as well
    as to continue to consolidate office facilities worldwide. The
    eight research sites impacted include: Montreal, Canada; Boxmeer
    (Nobilon facility only), Oss, and Schaijk, Netherlands; Odense,
    Denmark; Waltrop, Germany; Newhouse, Scotland; and Cambridge
    (Kendall Square), Massachusetts. In the second half of 2010, the
    Company began phasing out operations at eight manufacturing
    facilities and these sites will exit the global network as
    activities are transferred to other locations. Specifically, the
    Company intends to cease manufacturing activities at its
    facilities in Comazzo, Italy; Cacem, Portugal; Azcapotzalco,
    Mexico; Coyoacan, Mexico, and Santo Amaro, Brazil, and intends
    to sell the Mirador, Argentina and Miami Lakes, Florida,
    facilities. In Singapore, chemical manufacturing will be phased
    out at the legacy Merck site, but it will continue at the legacy
    Schering-Plough site. The Company s extensive
    pharmaceutical manufacturing operations will continue at both
    Singapore facilities. In addition, manufacturing operations at
    the Kenilworth, New Jersey site will be discontinued and these
    activities will be consolidated with existing operations at
    other Merck facilities. The Company will continue to pursue
    productivity efficiencies and evaluate its manufacturing supply
    chain capabilities on an ongoing basis which may result in
    future restructuring actions.

In connection with the Merger Restructuring Program, separation
    costs under the Company s existing severance programs
    worldwide were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 to the
    extent such costs were probable and reasonably estimable. The
    Company commenced accruing costs related to enhanced termination
    benefits offered to employees under the Merger Restructuring
    Program in the first quarter of 2010 when the necessary criteria
    were met. The Company recorded total pretax restructuring costs
    of $1.8 billion in 2010 and $1.5 billion in 2009
    related to this program. Since inception of the Merger
    Restructuring Program through December 31, 2010, Merck has
    recorded total pretax accumulated costs of approximately
    $3.3 billion and eliminated approximately 11,550 positions
    comprised of employee separations, and the elimination of
    contractors and vacant positions. The restructuring actions
    taken thus far under the Merger Restructuring Program are
    expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2012, with
    the exception of certain manufacturing facilities actions, with
    the total cumulative pretax costs estimated to be approximately
    $3.8 billion to $4.6 billion. The Company estimates
    that approximately two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs
    relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation
    expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs
    are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation
    of facilities to be closed or divested.

102

2008
    Global Restructuring Program  

In October 2008, Old Merck announced a global restructuring
    program (the  2008 Restructuring Program ) to reduce
    its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance
    competitiveness. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the
    Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions
      6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies  
    across the Company worldwide by the end of 2011. About 40% of
    these reductions will occur in the United States. The program
    includes the roll out of a new, more customer-centric selling
    model. The Company is also making greater use of outside
    technology resources, centralizing common sales and marketing
    activities, and consolidating and streamlining its operations.
    Merck s manufacturing division is further focusing its
    capabilities on core products and outsourcing non-core
    manufacturing. This program also included the implementation of
    a new model for its basic research global operating strategy at
    legacy Merck Research Laboratories sites.

Pretax restructuring costs of $176 million,
    $475 million and $922 million were recorded in 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively, related to the 2008 Restructuring
    Program. Since inception of the 2008 Restructuring Program
    through December 31, 2010, Merck has recorded total pretax
    accumulated costs of $1.6 billion and eliminated
    approximately 5,800 positions comprised of employee separations
    and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. The
    2008 Restructuring Program is expected to be completed by the
    end of 2011 with the total cumulative pretax costs estimated to
    be $1.6 billion to $2.0 billion. The Company estimates
    that two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash
    outlays, primarily from employee separation expense.
    Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs are
    non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of
    facilities to be closed or divested.

2005
    Global Restructuring Program  

In November 2005, Old Merck announced a global restructuring
    program (the  2005 Restructuring Program ) designed to
    reduce the cost structure, increase efficiency and enhance
    competitiveness which was substantially complete at the end of
    2008.

For segment reporting, restructuring charges are unallocated
    expenses.

103

The following table summarizes the charges related to Merger
    Restructuring Program and 2008 and 2005 Restructuring Program
    activities by type of cost:

104

Separation costs are associated with actual headcount
    reductions, as well as those headcount reductions which were
    probable and could be reasonably estimated. During 2010,
    approximately 11,410 positions were eliminated related to the
    Merger Restructuring Program and approximately 890 positions
    were eliminated related to the 2008 Restructuring Program.
    During 2009, approximately 3,160 positions were eliminated
    related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and approximately 140
    positions were eliminated related to the Merger Restructuring
    Program. During 2009, certain employees anticipated to be
    separated as part of planned restructuring actions for the 2008
    Restructuring Program were instead transferred to the buyer in
    conjunction with the sale of a facility. Accordingly, the
    accrual of separation costs associated with these employees was
    reversed resulting in a reduction to expenses. During 2008,
    approximately 1,750 positions were eliminated related to the
    2008 Restructuring Program and approximately 4,050 positions
    were eliminated related to the 2005 Restructuring Program. These
    position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount
    reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant
    positions.

Accelerated depreciation costs primarily relate to
    manufacturing, research and administrative facilities to be sold
    or closed as part of the programs. Accelerated depreciation
    costs represent the difference between the depreciation expense
    to be recognized over the revised useful life of the site, based
    upon the anticipated date the site will be closed or divested,
    and depreciation expense as determined utilizing the useful life
    prior to the restructuring actions. All of the sites have and
    will continue to operate up through the respective closure
    dates, and since future cash flows were sufficient to recover
    the respective book values, Merck was required to accelerate
    depreciation of the site assets rather than write them off
    immediately. The site assets include manufacturing, research and
    administrative facilities and equipment.

Other activity in 2010, 2009 and 2008 includes
    $152 million, $15 million and $29 million,
    respectively, of asset abandonment, shut-down and other related
    costs and, in 2010, approximately $65 million of contract
    termination costs. Additionally, other activity includes
    $88 million, $109 million and $88 million in
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, for other employee-related
    costs such as curtailment, settlement and termination charges on
    pension and other postretirement benefit plans (see
    Note 15) and share-based compensation costs. Other
    activity also reflects net pretax gains (losses) resulting from
    sales of facilities and related assets in 2010, 2009 and 2008 of
    $49 million, $(52) million and $52 million,
    respectively.

Adjustments to the recorded amounts were not material in any
    period.

105

The following table summarizes the charges and spending relating
    to Merger Restructuring Program and 2008 and 2005 Restructuring
    Program activities:

(1)   

The cash outlays associated with the Merger Restructuring
    Program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of
    2012. The cash outlays associated with the remaining
    restructuring reserve for the 2008 Restructuring Program are
    expected to be completed by the end of 2011. 

(2)   

Includes proceeds from the sales of facilities in connection
    with restructuring actions. 

Legacy
    Schering-Plough Program  

Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough commenced a Productivity
    Transformation Program which was designed to reduce and avoid
    costs and increase productivity. For the post-Merger period
    through December 31, 2009, the Company recorded
    $46 million of costs related to this program, including
    $39 million of employee separation costs included in
     Restructuring costs  and $7 million of accelerated
    depreciation costs included in  Materials and production
     costs. The remaining reserve associated with this program
    was $80 million at December 31, 2009. During 2010, the
    Company recorded $22 million of accelerated depreciation
    costs included in  Materials and production  costs and a
    $7 million net gain in  Restructuring costs ,
    primarily related to the sale of a manufacturing facility, and
    made payments of $33 million under this plan, resulting in
    a remaining reserve of

106

$47 million at December 31, 2010. In connection with
    this program, approximately 165 positions were eliminated in
    2010 and 225 positions were eliminated in the post-merger period
    in 2009.

5.    

Acquisitions,
    Research Collaborations and License Agreements  

In December 2010, the Company acquired all of the outstanding
    stock of SmartCells, a private company developing a glucose
    responsive insulin formulation for the treatment of diabetes
    mellitus. The total purchase consideration, which the Company
    determined had a fair value at the acquisition date of
    $138 million, included an upfront cash payment, contingent
    consideration consisting of future clinical development and
    regulatory milestones, as well as contingent consideration on
    future sales of products resulting from the acquisition. The
    transaction was accounted for under the acquisition method of
    accounting; accordingly, the assets and liabilities were
    recorded at their respective fair values on the acquisition
    date. The determination of fair value requires management to
    make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with
    the acquisition, substantially all of the preliminary purchase
    price was allocated to IPR D and the remaining net assets
    acquired were not significant. The fair value of the contingent
    consideration was determined by utilizing a probability weighted
    estimated cash flow stream adjusted for the expected timing of
    each payment. Subsequent to the acquisition date, on a quarterly
    basis, the contingent consideration liability will be remeasured
    at current fair value with changes recorded in earnings. The
    results of operations of SmartCells have been included in the
    Company s results of operations from the date of
    acquisition and were not significant. Certain estimated values
    are not yet finalized and may be subject to change. The Company
    expects to finalize these amounts as soon as possible, but no
    later than one year from the acquisition date.

In February 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of
    Avecia Biologics Limited ( Avecia ) for a total
    purchase price of approximately $190 million. Avecia is a
    contract manufacturing organization with specific expertise in
    microbial-derived biologics. Under the terms of the agreement,
    the Company acquired Avecia and all of its assets, including all
    of Avecia s process development and
     scale-up, 
    manufacturing, quality and business support operations located
    in Billingham, United Kingdom. The transaction was accounted for
    as a business combination; accordingly, the assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair
    values as of the acquisition date. The determination of fair
    value requires management to make significant estimates and
    assumptions. In connection with the acquisition, substantially
    all of the purchase price was allocated to Avecia s
    property, plant and equipment and goodwill. The remaining net
    assets acquired were not material. This transaction closed on
    February 1, 2010, and accordingly, the results of
    operations of the acquired business have been included in the
    Company s results of operations beginning after the
    acquisition date. Pro forma financial information has not been
    included because Avecia s historical financial results are
    not significant when compared with the Company s financial
    results.

In May 2010, Merck announced that it had restructured its
    co-development and co-commercialization agreement with ARIAD
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( ARIAD ) for ridaforolimus
    (MK-8669), an investigational orally available mTOR inhibitor
    currently being evaluated for the treatment of multiple cancer
    types, to an exclusive license agreement. Under the restructured
    agreement, Merck has acquired full control of the development
    and worldwide commercialization of ridaforolimus. ARIAD received
    a $50 million upfront fee, which the Company recorded as
    research and development expense in 2010, and is eligible to
    receive milestone payments associated with regulatory filings
    and approvals of ridaforolimus in multiple cancer indications
    and achievement of significant sales thresholds. In lieu of the
    profit split on U.S. sales provided for in the previous
    agreement, ARIAD will now receive royalties on global net sales
    of ridaforolimus, and all sales will be recorded by Merck. Merck
    has assumed responsibility for all activities and has acquired
    decision rights on matters relating to the development,
    manufacturing and commercialization of ridaforolimus. The
    Investigational New Drug Application has been transferred to
    Merck, and Merck will file the marketing application worldwide
    for any oncology indications and lead all interactions with
    regulatory agencies. The agreement is terminable by Merck upon
    nine months notice, or immediately upon a good faith
    determination of a serious safety issue. The agreement is
    terminable by either party as a result of insolvency by the
    other party or an uncured material breach by the other party or
    by ARIAD for a failure by Merck to perform certain product
    development responsibilities.

In July 2009, Old Merck and Portola Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    ( Portola ) signed an exclusive global collaboration
    and license agreement for the development and commercialization
    of betrixaban (MK-4448), an investigational oral Factor Xa
    inhibitor anticoagulant currently in clinical development for
    the prevention of stroke

107

in patients with atrial fibrillation. In return for an exclusive
    worldwide license to betrixaban, Old Merck paid Portola an
    initial fee of $50 million at closing, which was recorded
    in  Research and development  expense. Portola is eligible
    to receive additional cash payments totaling up to
    $420 million upon achievement of certain development,
    regulatory and commercialization milestones, as well as
    double-digit royalties on worldwide sales of betrixaban, if
    approved. Merck has assumed all development and
    commercialization costs, including the costs of Phase III
    clinical trials. Portola retains an option (a) to
    co-fund Phase III clinical trials in return for
    additional royalties and (b) to co-promote betrixaban with
    Merck in the United States. The term of the agreement commenced
    in August 2009 and, unless terminated earlier, will continue
    until there are no remaining royalty payment obligations in a
    country, at which time the agreement will expire in its entirety
    in such country. The agreement may be terminated by either party
    in the event of a material uncured breach or bankruptcy of a
    party. The agreement may be terminated by Merck in the event
    that the parties or Merck decide to cease development of
    betrixaban for safety or efficacy. In addition, Merck may
    terminate the agreement at any time upon 180 days prior
    written notice. Portola may terminate the agreement in the event
    that Merck challenges any Portola patent covering betrixaban.
    Upon termination of the agreement, depending upon the
    circumstances, the parties have varying rights and obligations
    with respect to the continued development and commercialization
    of betrixaban and, in the case of termination for cause by
    Merck, certain royalty obligations.

In April 2009, Old Merck, Medarex, Inc. ( Medarex ),
    which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb,
    and Massachusetts Biologic Laboratories ( MBL ) of the
    University of Massachusetts Medical School announced an
    exclusive worldwide license agreement for CDA-1 and CDB-1
    (MK-3415A), an investigational fully human monoclonal antibody
    combination developed to target and neutralize  Clostridium
    difficile  toxins A and B, for the treatment of  C.
    difficile  infection. CDA-1 and CDB-1 were co-developed by
    Medarex and MBL. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck gained
    worldwide rights to develop and commercialize CDA-1 and CDB-1.
    Medarex and MBL received an aggregate upfront payment of
    $60 million upon closing, which was recorded in  Research
    and development  expense, and are potentially eligible to
    receive additional cash payments up to $165 million in the
    aggregate upon achievement of certain milestones associated with
    the development and approval of a drug candidate covered by this
    agreement. Upon commercialization, Medarex and MBL will also be
    eligible to receive double-digit royalties on product sales and
    milestones if certain sales targets are met. The term of the
    agreement commenced on the closing date and, unless terminated
    earlier, will continue until there are no remaining royalty
    payment obligations in a country, at which time the agreement
    will expire in its entirety in such country. Either party may
    terminate this agreement for uncured material breach by the
    other party, or bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party.
    Merck may terminate this agreement at any time upon providing
    180 days prior written notice to Medarex and MBL.

Also, in April 2009, Old Merck and Santen Pharmaceutical Co.,
    Ltd. ( Santen ) announced a worldwide licensing
    agreement for tafluprost (MK-2452), a prostaglandin analogue
    under investigation in the United States. Tafluprost, preserved
     and/or 
    preservative-free formulations, has received marketing approval
    for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in open-angle
    glaucoma and ocular hypertension in several European and Nordic
    countries as well as Japan and has been filed for approval in
    other international markets. Under the terms of the agreement,
    Merck paid a fee, which was capitalized and will be amortized to
     Materials and production  costs over the life of the
    underlying patent, and will pay milestones and royalty payments
    based on future sales of tafluprost (both preserved and
    preservative-free formulations) in exchange for exclusive
    commercial rights to tafluprost in Western Europe (excluding
    Germany), North America, South America, Africa, Middle East,
    India and Australia. Santen will retain commercial rights to
    tafluprost in most countries in Eastern Europe, Northern Europe
    and Asia Pacific, including Japan. Merck will provide promotion
    support to Santen in Germany and Poland. If tafluprost is
    approved in the United States, Santen has an option to
    co-promote it there. The agreement between Merck and Santen
    expires on a
     country-by-country 
    basis on the last to occur of (a) the expiry of the last to
    expire valid patent claim; or (b) the expiration of the
    last to expire royalty. Merck may terminate the agreement at any
    time upon 90 days prior written notice and also at any time
    upon 60 days prior written notice if Merck determines that
    the product presents issues of safety or tolerability. In
    addition, Merck may terminate the agreement in the event that
    any of the enumerated agreements between Santen and the
    co-owner/licensor of certain intellectual property terminate or
    expire and this materially adversely affects Merck. If either
    Merck or Santen materially breaches the agreement and fails to
    cure after receiving notice, then the non-breaching party may
    terminate the agreement. The agreement provides for termination
    by the non-insolvent party due to bankruptcy by the other party.
    Finally, the

108

agreement will terminate if, during the term, Merck develops or
    commercializes a competitive product (as that term is defined in
    the agreement).

In addition, in April 2009, Old Merck and Cardiome Pharma Corp.
    ( Cardiome ) announced a collaboration and license
    agreement for the development and commercialization of
    vernakalant (MK-6621), an investigational candidate for the
    treatment of atrial fibrillation. The agreement provides Merck
    with exclusive global rights to the oral formulation of
    vernakalant ( vernakalant (oral) ) for the maintenance
    of normal heart rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation, and
    provides a Merck affiliate, Merck Sharp   Dohme
    (Switzerland) GmbH, with exclusive rights outside of the United
    States, Canada and Mexico to the intravenous ( IV )
    formulation of vernakalant ( vernakalant (IV) ) for
    rapid conversion of acute atrial fibrillation to normal heart
    rhythm. Under the terms of the agreement, Old Merck paid
    Cardiome an initial fee of $60 million upon closing, which
    was recorded in  Research and development  expense. In
    addition, Cardiome is eligible to receive up to
    $200 million in payments based on achievement of certain
    milestones associated with the development and approval of
    vernakalant products (including $15 million paid in 2009
    for submission for regulatory approval in Europe of vernakalant
    (IV), $30 million paid in 2010 upon receipt of marketing
    approval for vernakalant (IV) ( Brinavess ) in the EU,
    Iceland and Norway, and potential future payments of
    $20 million for initiation of a planned Phase III
    program for vernakalant (oral)) and up to $100 million for
    milestones associated with approvals in other subsequent
    indications of both the intravenous and oral formulations. In
    September 2010, Merck announced that vernakalant (IV)
    ( Brinavess ) was granted marketing approval in the EU,
    Iceland and Norway. Also, Cardiome will receive tiered royalty
    payments on sales of any approved products and has the potential
    to receive up to $340 million in milestone payments based
    on achievement of significant sales thresholds. Cardiome has
    retained an option to co-promote vernakalant (oral) with Merck
    through a hospital-based sales force in the United States. Merck
    will be responsible for all future costs associated with the
    development, manufacturing and commercialization of these
    candidates. This agreement continues in effect until the
    expiration of Cardiome s co-promotion rights and all
    royalty and milestone payment obligations. This agreement may be
    terminated in the event of insolvency or a material uncured
    breach by either party. Additionally, the collaboration may be
    terminated by Merck in the event that Merck determines (in good
    faith) that it is not advisable to continue the development or
    commercialization of a vernakalant product as a result of a
    serious safety issue. In addition, Merck may terminate the
    agreement at any time upon 12 months prior written notice.
    Cardiome may terminate the agreement in the event that Merck
    challenges any Cardiome patent covering vernakalant. Upon
    termination of the agreement, depending upon the circumstances,
    the parties have varying rights and obligations with respect to
    the continued development and commercialization of vernakalant
    and in some cases continuing royalty obligations. Merck has
    granted Cardiome a secured, interest-bearing credit facility of
    up to $100 million that Cardiome may access in tranches
    over several years commencing in 2010.

In March 2009, Old Merck acquired Insmed Inc. s
    ( Insmed ) portfolio of follow-on biologic therapeutic
    candidates and its commercial manufacturing facilities located
    in Boulder, Colorado. Under the terms of the agreement, Old
    Merck paid Insmed an aggregate of $130 million in cash to
    acquire all rights to the Boulder facilities and Insmed s
    pipeline of follow-on biologic candidates. Insmed s
    follow-on biologics portfolio includes two clinical candidates:
    MK-4214, an investigational recombinant granulocyte-colony
    stimulating factor ( G-CSF ) that will be evaluated
    for its ability to prevent infections in patients with cancer
    receiving chemotherapy, and MK-6302, a pegylated recombinant
    G-CSF designed to allow for less frequent dosing. The
    transaction was accounted for as a business combination;
    accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were
    recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition
    date. The determination of fair value requires management to
    make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with
    the acquisition, substantially all of the purchase price was
    allocated to Insmed s follow-on biologics portfolio
    (MK-4214 and MK-6302) and an indefinite-lived intangible asset
    was recorded. The fair value was determined based upon the
    present value of expected future cash flows of new product
    candidates resulting from Insmed s follow-on biologics
    portfolio adjusted for the probability of their estimated
    technical and marketing success utilizing an income approach
    reflecting appropriate risk-adjusted discount rates. The ongoing
    activity related to MK-4214 and MK-6302 is not expected to be
    material to the Company s research and development expense.
    The remaining net assets acquired were not material and there
    were no other milestone or royalty obligations associated with
    the acquisition. This transaction closed on March 31, 2009,
    and accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired
    business have been included in Merck s results of
    operations beginning April 1, 2009.

109

6.    

Collaborative
    Arrangements  

The Company continues its strategy of establishing external
    alliances to complement its substantial internal research
    capabilities, including research collaborations, licensing
    preclinical and clinical compounds and technology platforms to
    drive both near- and long-term growth. The Company supplements
    its internal research with an aggressive licensing and external
    alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of
    collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as
    well as new technologies across a broad range of therapeutic
    areas. These arrangements often include upfront payments and
    royalty or profit share payments, contingent upon the occurrence
    of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in
    development, as well as expense reimbursements or payments to
    the third party.

Cozaar/Hyzaar  

In 1989, Old Merck and E.I. duPont de Nemours and Company
    ( DuPont ) agreed to form a long-term research and
    marketing collaboration to develop a class of therapeutic agents
    for high blood pressure and heart disease, discovered by DuPont,
    called angiotensin II receptor antagonists, which include
     Cozaar  and  Hyzaar . In return, Old Merck provided
    DuPont marketing rights in the United States and Canada to its
    prescription medicines,  Sinemet  and  Sinemet CR
     (the Company has recently regained global marketing rights
    to  Sinemet  and  Sinemet CR ). Pursuant to a 1994
    agreement with DuPont, the Company has an exclusive licensing
    agreement to market  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar , which are
    both registered trademarks of DuPont, in return for royalties
    and profit share payments to DuPont. The patents that provided
    market exclusivity in the United States for  Cozaar  and
     Hyzaar  expired in April 2010. In addition,  Cozaar
     and  Hyzaar  lost patent protection in a number of
    major European markets in March 2010.

Remicade/Simponi  

In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough entered into a
    licensing agreement with Centocor Ortho Biotech, Inc.
    ( Centocor ), a Johnson   Johnson company,
    to market  Remicade,  which is prescribed for the treatment
    of inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering-Plough s
    subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with Centocor
    for license rights to develop and commercialize  Simponi
     (golimumab), a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company
    has exclusive marketing rights to both products outside the
    United States, Japan and certain other Asian markets. In
    December 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor revised their
    distribution agreement regarding the development,
    commercialization and distribution of both  Remicade  and
     Simponi , extending the Company s rights to
    exclusively market  Remicade  to match the duration of the
    Company s exclusive marketing rights for  Simponi . In
    addition, Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain
    development costs relating to  Simponi  s
    auto-injector delivery system. On October 6, 2009, the
    European Commission approved  Simponi  as a treatment for
    rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system disorders in two
    presentations   a novel auto-injector and a prefilled
    syringe. As a result, the Company s marketing rights for
    both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial
    sale of  Simponi  in the EU following the receipt of
    pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU. After
    operating expenses and subject to certain adjustments, the
    Company was entitled to receive an approximate 60% share of
    profits on the Company s distribution in the Company s
    marketing territory through December 31, 2009. Beginning in
    2010, the Company s share of profits change over time to a
    50% share of profits by 2014 for both products and the share of
    profits will remain fixed thereafter for the remainder of the
    term. The Company may independently develop and market
     Simponi  for a Crohn s disease indication in its
    territories, with an option for Centocor to participate. See
    Note 12 for a discussion of the arbitration involving the
    Company s rights to market  Remicade  and
     Simponi .

7.    

Financial
    Instruments  

Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities  

The Company manages the impact of foreign exchange rate
    movements and interest rate movements on its earnings, cash
    flows and fair values of assets and liabilities through
    operational means and through the use of various financial
    instruments, including derivative instruments.

A significant portion of the Company s revenues and
    earnings in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign
    exchange rates. The objectives and accounting related to the
    Company s foreign currency risk management program, as well
    as its interest rate risk management activities are discussed
    below.

110

Foreign
    Currency Risk Management  

A significant portion of the Company s revenues are
    denominated in foreign currencies. The Company has established
    revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs to
    protect against volatility of future foreign currency cash flows
    and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign
    exchange rates.

The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the
    potential for longer-term unfavorable changes in foreign
    exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash
    flows derived from foreign currency denominated sales, primarily
    the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the
    Company will partially hedge forecasted foreign currency
    denominated third-party and intercompany distributor entity
    sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle,
    typically no more than three years into the future. The Company
    will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of
    third-party and intercompany distributor entity sales hedged as
    it gets closer to the expected date of the forecasted foreign
    currency denominated sales, such that it is probable the hedged
    transaction will occur. The portion of sales hedged is based on
    assessments of cost-benefit profiles that consider natural
    offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities and
    correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged
    anticipated sales are a specified component of a portfolio of
    similarly denominated foreign currency-based sales transactions,
    each of which responds to the hedged risk in the same manner.
    The Company manages its anticipated transaction exposure
    principally with purchased local currency put options, which
    provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell
    foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If
    the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the
    hedged anticipated sales, total changes in the options 
    cash flows offset the decline in the expected future
    U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency
    sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the
    options  value reduces to zero, but the Company benefits
    from the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign
    currency cash flows. The Company also utilizes forward contracts
    in its revenue hedging program. If the U.S. dollar
    strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated
    sales, the increase in the fair value of the forward contracts
    offsets the decrease in the expected future U.S. dollar
    cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if
    the U.S. dollar weakens, the decrease in the fair value of
    the forward contracts offsets the increase in the value of the
    anticipated foreign currency cash flows.

The fair value of these derivative contracts are recorded as
    either assets (gain positions) or liabilities (loss positions)
    in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Changes in the fair value of
    derivative contracts are recorded each period in either current
    earnings or  Other comprehensive income
     (  OCI  ), depending on whether the
    derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction, and if
    so, the type of hedge transaction. For derivatives that are
    designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the
    unrealized gains or losses on these contracts is recorded in
     AOCI  and reclassified into  Sales  when the hedged
    anticipated revenue is recognized. The hedge relationship is
    highly effective and hedge ineffectiveness has been  de
    minimis . For those derivatives which are not designated as
    cash flow hedges, unrealized gains or losses are recorded to
     Sales  each period. The cash flows from these contracts
    are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated
    Statement of Cash Flows. The Company does not enter into
    derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.

The primary objective of the balance sheet risk management
    program is to mitigate the exposure of foreign currency
    denominated net monetary assets of foreign subsidiaries where
    the U.S. dollar is the functional currency from the effects
    of volatility in foreign exchange that might occur prior to
    their conversion to U.S. dollars. In these instances, Merck
    principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable
    the Company to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at
    fixed exchange rates and economically offset the consequences of
    changes in foreign exchange from the monetary assets. Merck
    routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of
    exchange on exposures denominated in developed country
    currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures
    in developing country currencies, the Company will enter into
    forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on
    exposures when it is deemed economical to do so based on a
    cost-benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the
    exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of
    the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the
    effect of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities by
    managing operating activities and net asset positions at the
    local level.

Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of
    foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the
    functional currency are remeasured at spot rates in effect on
    the balance sheet date with the effects of changes in spot rates
    reported in  Other (income) expense, net . The forward
    contracts are not designated as hedges and are marked to market
    through  Other (income) expense, net . Accordingly, fair
    value changes in the forward contracts

111

help mitigate the changes in the value of the remeasured assets
    and liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency
    exchange rates, except to the extent of the spot-forward
    differences. These differences are not significant due to the
    short-term nature of the contracts, which typically have average
    maturities at inception of less than one year.

When applicable, the Company uses forward contracts to hedge the
    changes in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated
     available-for-sale 
    securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates. These derivative contracts are designated as
    fair value hedges. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of the
    hedged securities due to fluctuations in spot rates are recorded
    in  Other (income) expense, net , and are offset by the
    fair value changes in the forward contracts attributable to spot
    rate fluctuations. Changes in the contracts  fair value due
    to spot-forward differences are excluded from the designated
    hedge relationship and recognized in  Other (income) expense,
    net . These amounts, as well as hedge ineffectiveness, were
    not significant for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009
    or 2008. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as
    operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

Foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign
    currency debt. The Company s senior unsecured
    euro-denominated notes have been designated as, and are
    effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign
    operation. Accordingly, foreign currency transaction gains or
    losses on the euro-denominated debt instruments are included in
    foreign currency translation adjustment within  OCI .

During 2010, the Company began using forward exchange contracts
    to hedge its net investment in foreign operations against
    adverse movements in exchange rates. The forward contracts are
    designated as hedges of the net investment in a foreign
    operation. The Company hedges a portion of the net investment in
    certain of its foreign operations and measures ineffectiveness
    based upon changes in spot foreign exchange rates. The effective
    portion of the unrealized gains or losses on these contracts is
    recorded in foreign currency translation adjustment within
     OCI , and remains in  OCI  until either the sale or
    complete or substantially complete liquidation of the
    subsidiary. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as
    investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

Interest
    Rate Risk Management  

At December 31, 2010, the Company was a party to 13
    pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts
    designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate notes in which the
    notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed-rate
    notes. There are two swaps maturing in 2011 with notional
    amounts of $125 million each that effectively convert the
    Company s $250 million, 5.125% fixed-rate notes due
    2011 to floating rate instruments and five swaps maturing in
    2015 with notional amounts of $150 million each that
    effectively convert $750 million of the Company s
    $1.0 billion, 4.0% fixed-rate notes due 2015 to floating
    rate instruments. In addition, there are six swaps maturing in
    2016, two of which have notional amounts of $175 million
    each, and four of which have notional amounts of
    $125 million each, that effectively convert the
    Company s $850 million, 2.25% fixed-rate notes due
    2016 to floating rate instruments. The interest rate swap
    contracts are designated hedges of the fair value changes in the
    notes attributable to changes in the benchmark London Interbank
    Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) swap rate. The fair value
    changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark
    interest rate are recorded in interest expense and offset by the
    fair value changes in the swap contracts. The cash flows from
    these contracts are reported as operating activities in the
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

112

Presented in the table below is the fair value of derivatives
    segregated between those derivatives that are designated as
    hedging instruments and those that are not designated as hedging
    instruments as of December 31:

113

The table below provides information on the location and pretax
    gain or loss amounts for derivatives that are:
    (i) designated in a fair value hedging relationship,
    (ii) designated in a cash flow hedging relationship,
    (iii) designated in a foreign currency hedging relationship
    (net investment hedge) and (iv) not designated in a hedging
    relationship:

Years Ended
    December 31  

2010  

2009

Derivatives designated in fair value hedging relationships 

Interest rate swap contracts

Amount of gain recognized in  Other (income) expense, net
     on derivatives

$ 

(23 

) 

$

(3

)

Amount of loss recognized in  Other (income) expense, net
     on hedged item

23 

3

Foreign exchange contracts

Amount of gain recognized in  Other (income) expense, net
     on derivatives

(5

)

Amount of loss recognized in  Other (income) expense, net
     on hedged item

9

Derivatives designated in foreign currency cash flow hedging
    relationships 

Foreign exchange contracts

Amount of loss reclassified from  AOCI  to  Sales 

7 

61

Amount of (gain) loss recognized in  OCI  on derivatives

(103 

) 

310

Derivatives designated in foreign currency net investment
    hedging relationships 

Foreign exchange contracts

Amount of gain recognized in  Other (income) expense, net
     on
    derivatives  (1)  

(1 

) 

Amount of loss recognized in  OCI  on derivatives

24 

Derivatives not designated in a hedging relationship 

Foreign exchange contracts

Amount of (gain) loss recognized in  Other (income) expense,
    net  on
    derivatives  (2)  

(33 

) 

41

Amount of gain recognized in  Sales  on hedged item

(81 

) 

(1)   

There was no ineffectiveness on the hedge. Represents the
    amount excluded from hedge effectiveness testing. 

(2)   

These derivative contracts mitigate changes in the value of
    remeasured foreign currency denominated monetary assets and
    liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange
    rates .

At December 31, 2010, the Company estimates
    $22 million of pretax net unrealized gain on derivatives
    maturing within the next 12 months that hedge foreign
    currency denominated sales over that same period will be
    reclassified from  AOCI  to  Sales . The amount
    ultimately reclassified to  Sales  may differ as foreign
    exchange rates change. Realized gains and losses are ultimately
    determined by actual exchange rates at maturity.

Fair
    Value Measurements  

Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be
    received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit
    price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the
    asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market
    participants on the measurement date. Entities are required to
    use a fair value hierarchy which maximizes the use of observable
    inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when
    measuring fair value. There are three levels of inputs that may
    be used to measure fair value:

Level 1    Quoted prices in active markets
    for identical assets or liabilities. The Company s
    Level 1 assets include equity securities that are traded in
    an active exchange market.

Level 2    Observable inputs other than
    Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or
    liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be
    corroborated by observable market data for substantially the
    full term of the assets or liabilities. The Company s
    Level 2 assets and liabilities primarily include debt
    securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently
    than exchange-traded instruments, corporate notes and bonds,
    U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, certain
    mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, municipal
    securities, commercial paper and derivative contracts whose
    values are determined using pricing models with inputs that are
    observable in the market or can be derived principally from or
    corroborated by observable market data.

114

Level 3    Unobservable inputs that are
    supported by little or no market activity and that are financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of fair value
    requires significant judgment or estimation. The Company s
    Level 3 assets include certain mortgage-backed securities
    with limited market activity. At December 31, 2010,
    $13 million, or approximately 0.4%, of the Company s
    investment securities were categorized as Level 3 assets.

If the inputs used to measure the financial assets and
    liabilities fall within more than one level described above, the
    categorization is based on the lowest level input that is
    significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument.

Financial
    Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring
    Basis  

Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
    recurring basis at December 31 are summarized below:

(1)   

Substantially all of the asset-backed securities are
    highly-rated (Standard   Poor s rating of AAA and
    Moody s Investors Service rating of Aaa), secured primarily
    by credit card, auto loan, and home equity receivables, with
    weighted-average lives of primarily 5 years or less.
    Mortgage-backed securities represent AAA-rated securities issued
    or unconditionally guaranteed as to payment of principal and
    interest by U.S. government agencies. 

(2)   

The fair value determination of derivatives includes an
    assessment of the credit risk of counterparties to the
    derivatives and the Company s own credit risk, the effects
    of which were not significant. 

115

There were no significant transfers between Level 1 and
    Level 2 during 2010. As of December 31, 2010,  Cash
    and cash equivalents  of $10.9 billion included
    $10.3 billion of cash equivalents.

Level 3
    Valuation Techniques  

Financial assets are considered Level 3 when their fair
    values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow
    methodologies or similar techniques and at least one significant
    model assumption or input is unobservable. Level 3
    financial assets also include certain investment securities for
    which there is limited market activity such that the
    determination of fair value requires significant judgment or
    estimation. The Company s Level 3 investment
    securities include certain mortgage-backed securities. These
    securities were valued primarily using pricing models for which
    management understands the methodologies. These models
    incorporate transaction details such as contractual terms,
    maturity, timing and amount of future cash inflows, as well as
    assumptions about liquidity and credit valuation adjustments of
    marketplace participants.

The table below provides a summary of the changes in fair value,
    including net transfers in
     and/or  out,
    of all financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring
    basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3):

(1)   

Transfers in and out of Level 3 are deemed to occur at
    the beginning of the quarter in which the transaction takes
    place. 

(2)   

During 2010 and 2009, investments in the aggregate amount of
    $13 million and $27 million, respectively, which were
    no longer pledged as collateral, were reclassified from other
    assets to
     available-for-sale 
    investments. 

(3)   

Amounts are recorded in Other (income) expense, net. 

Financial
    Instruments not Measured at Fair Value  

Some of the Company s financial instruments are not
    measured at fair value on a recurring basis but are recorded at
    amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or
    short-term nature, such as cash and cash equivalents,
    receivables and payables.

The estimated fair value of loans payable and long-term debt
    (including current portion) at December 31, 2010 was
    $18.7 billion compared with a carrying value of
    $17.9 billion and at December 31, 2009 was
    $17.7 billion compared with a carrying value of
    $17.5 billion. Fair value was estimated using quoted dealer
    prices.

116

A summary of gross unrealized gains and losses on
     available-for-sale 
    investments recorded in  AOCI  at December 31 is as follows:

Available-for-sale 
    debt securities included in  Short-term investments
     totaled $1.3 billion at December 31, 2010. Of the
    remaining debt securities, $1.6 billion mature within five
    years. At December 31, 2010, there were no debt securities
    pledged as collateral.

Concentrations
    of Credit Risk  

On an ongoing basis, the Company monitors concentrations of
    credit risk associated with corporate issuers of securities and
    financial institutions with which it conducts business. Credit
    exposure limits are established to limit a concentration with
    any single issuer or institution. Cash and investments are
    placed in instruments that meet high credit quality standards,
    as specified in the Company s investment policy guidelines.
    Approximately half of the Company s cash and cash
    equivalents are invested in three highly rated money market
    funds.

The majority of the Company s accounts receivable arise
    from product sales in the United States and Europe and are
    primarily due from drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals,
    government agencies, managed health care providers and pharmacy
    benefit managers. The Company monitors the financial performance
    and creditworthiness of its customers so that it can properly
    assess and respond to changes in their credit profile. The
    Company also continues to monitor economic conditions, including
    the volatility associated with international sovereign
    economies, and associated impacts on the financial markets and
    its business, taking into consideration the global economic
    downturn and the sovereign debt issues in certain European
    countries. The Company believes the credit and economic
    conditions within Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal, among other
    members of the EU, have deteriorated during 2010. These
    conditions, as well as inherent variability of timing of cash
    receipts, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an
    increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect
    accounts receivable outstanding. As of December 31, 2010,
    the Company s accounts receivable in Greece, Italy, Spain
    and Portugal totaled approximately $1.4 billion of which
    hospital and public sector receivables in Greece were
    approximately 15%. As of December 31, 2010, the
    Company s total accounts receivable outstanding for more
    than one year were approximately $390 million, of which
    approximately $340 million related to accounts receivable
    in Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal. During 2010, the Greek
    government announced it would exchange zero coupon bonds for
    outstanding
     2007-2009 
    accounts receivable related to certain government sponsored
    institutions. The Company has received substantially all of the
    bonds in settlement of the $170 million of
     2007-2009 
    accounts receivable.

The Company s five largest U.S. customers, Cardinal
    Health, Inc., AmerisourceBergen Corporation, McKesson
    Corporation, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and Medco Health Solutions,
    Inc., represented, in aggregate, approximately one-fifth of
    accounts receivable at December 31, 2010. The Company
    monitors the creditworthiness

117

of its customers to which it grants credit terms in the normal
    course of business. Bad debts have been minimal. The Company
    does not normally require collateral or other security to
    support credit sales.

Derivative financial instruments are executed under
    International Swaps and Derivatives Association master
    agreements. The master agreements with several of the
    Company s financial institution counterparties also include
    credit support annexes. These annexes contain provisions that
    require collateral to be exchanged depending on the value of the
    derivative assets and liabilities, the Company s credit
    rating, and the credit rating of the counterparty. As of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had received cash
    collateral of $157 million and $69 million,
    respectively, from various counterparties which is recorded in
     Accrued and other current liabilities . The Company had
    not advanced any cash collateral to counterparties as of
    December 31, 2010 or 2009.

8.    

Inventories  

Inventories at December 31 consisted of:

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, $225 million and
    $2.3 billion, respectively, of purchase accounting
    adjustments to inventories remained which are recognized as a
    component of  Materials and production  costs as the
    related inventories are sold. Inventories valued under the LIFO
    method comprised approximately 26% and 21% of inventories at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Amounts
    recognized as  Other assets  are comprised almost entirely
    of raw materials and work in process inventories. As of
    December 31, 2010, these amounts included approximately
    $1.0 billion of inventories not expected to be sold within
    one year and $197 million of inventories produced in
    preparation for product launches.

9.    

Goodwill
    and Other Intangibles  

As a result of the Merger (see Note 3), the Company
    recorded $10.6 billion of goodwill and $41.0 billion
    of acquired identifiable intangible assets, including acquired
    IPR D. The Company recorded an additional $7.3 billion
    of intangible assets in conjunction with the remeasurement of
    Merck s previously held equity interest in the MSP
    Partnership.

The following table summarizes goodwill activity by segment:

(1)    

Other includes cumulative translation adjustments on goodwill
    balances. 

118

Other intangibles at December 31 consisted of:

(1)    

Amounts capitalized as in-process research and development
    are accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject
    to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the
    projects. Upon successful completion of each project, the
    Company will make a separate determination as to the useful life
    of the assets and begin amortization. During 2010, the Company
    recorded $2.4 billion of in-process research and
    development ( IPR D ) impairment charges (see
    Note 3). Also, during 2010, approximately $378 million
    of IPR D was reclassified to products and product rights
    upon receipt of marketing approval in a major market. 

Aggregate amortization expense primarily recorded within
     Materials and production  costs was $4.7 billion in
    2010, $922 million in 2009 and $186 million in 2008.
    The estimated aggregate amortization expense for each of the
    next five years is as follows: 2011, $4.6 billion; 2012,
    $4.5 billion; 2013, $4.5 billion; 2014,
    $4.3 billion; 2015, $3.7 billion.

10.    

Joint
    Ventures and Other Equity Method Affiliates  

Equity income from affiliates reflects the performance of the
    Company s joint ventures and other equity method affiliates
    and was comprised of the following:

(1)   

Upon completion of the Merger in 2009, the MSP Partnership
    became wholly-owned by the Company (see below). 

(2)   

Primarily reflects results from Sanofi Pasteur MSD,
    Johnson   Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals
    Company, as well as Merial Limited (which was disposed of on
    September 17, 2009). 

AstraZeneca
    LP  

In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB
    ( Astra ) to develop and market Astra s products
    under a royalty-bearing license. In 1993, Old Merck s total
    sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered the first
    step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on
    by Astra Merck Inc. ( AMI ), in which Old Merck and
    Astra each owned a 50% share. This joint venture, formed in
    1994, developed and marketed most of Astra s new
    prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec,
    the first of a class of medications known as proton pump
    inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of
    the stomach lining.

In 1998, Old Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the
    ownership and operations of the joint venture whereby Old Merck
    acquired Astra s interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc.
    ( KBI ), and contributed KBI s operating assets
    to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals
    L.P. (the  Partnership ), in exchange for a 1% limited
    partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly
    owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in
    exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership,
    renamed AstraZeneca LP ( AZLP ) upon Astra s 1999
    merger with Zeneca Group Plc (the  AstraZeneca
    merger ), became the exclusive distributor of the products
    for which KBI retained rights.

119

While maintaining a 1% limited partner interest in AZLP, Merck
    has consent and protective rights intended to preserve its
    business and economic interests, including restrictions on the
    power of the general partner to make certain distributions or
    dispositions. Furthermore, in limited events of default,
    additional rights will be granted to the Company, including
    powers to direct the actions of, or remove and replace, the
    Partnership s chief executive officer and chief financial
    officer. Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of KBI
    products and such revenue was $1.3 billion,
    $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as
    Prilosec. In addition, Merck earns certain Partnership returns
    which are recorded in  Equity income from affiliates  as
    reflected in the table above. Such returns include a priority
    return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, variable
    returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA,
    Inc. products, and a preferential return representing
    Merck s share of undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings.

The AstraZeneca merger constituted a Trigger Event under the KBI
    restructuring agreements, which resulted in the partial
    redemption in 2008 of Old Merck s interest in certain AZLP
    product rights. Upon this redemption, Old Merck received
    $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was based primarily on
    a multiple of Old Merck s average annual variable returns
    derived from sales of the former Astra USA, Inc. products for
    the three years prior to the redemption (the  Limited
    Partner Share of Agreed Value ). Old Merck recorded a
    $1.5 billion pretax gain on the partial redemption in 2008.
    The partial redemption of Old Merck s interest in the
    product rights did not result in a change in Old Merck s 1%
    limited partnership interest.

As a result of the AstraZeneca merger, in exchange for Old
    Merck s relinquishment of rights to future Astra products
    with no existing or pending U.S. patents at the time of the
    merger, Astra paid $967 million (the  Advance
    Payment ). The Advance Payment was deferred as it remained
    subject to a
     true-up 
    calculation (the
      True-Up 
    Amount ) that was directly dependent on the fair market
    value in March 2008 of the Astra product rights retained by Old
    Merck. The calculated
     True-Up 
    Amount of $243 million was returned to AZLP in 2008 and Old
    Merck recognized a pretax gain of $724 million related to
    the residual Advance Payment balance.

Under the provisions of the KBI restructuring agreements,
    because a Trigger Event has occurred, the sum of the Limited
    Partner Share of Agreed Value, the Appraised Value (as discussed
    below) and the
     True-Up 
    Amount was guaranteed to be a minimum of $4.7 billion.
    Distribution of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value less
    payment of the
     True-Up 
    Amount resulted in cash receipts to Old Merck of
    $4.0 billion and an aggregate pretax gain of
    $2.2 billion which was included in  Other (income)
    expense, net  in 2008. Also, in March 2008, the
    $1.38 billion outstanding loan from Astra plus interest
    through the redemption date was settled. As a result of these
    transactions, Old Merck received net proceeds from AZLP of
    $2.6 billion in 2008.

In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring discussed above,
    Astra purchased an option (the  Asset Option ) for a
    payment of $443 million, which was recorded as deferred
    income, to buy Old Merck s interest in the KBI products,
    excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec
    (the  Non-PPI Products ). In April 2010, AstraZeneca
    exercised the Asset Option. Merck received $647 million
    from AstraZeneca representing the net present value as of
    March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be
    received by Old Merck from the Non-PPI Products (the
     Appraised Value ), which was recorded as a reduction
    to the Company s investment in AZLP. The Company recognized
    the $443 million of deferred income in 2010 as a component
    of  Other (income) expense, net . In addition, in 1998, Old
    Merck granted Astra an option (the
     Shares Option ) to buy Old Merck s common
    stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old Merck s interest
    in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012. The exercise price
    for the Shares Option will be based on the net present
    value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as
    determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain
     true-up 
    mechanisms. The Company believes that it is likely that
    AstraZeneca will exercise the Shares Option.

Summarized financial information for AZLP is as follows:

120

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Partnership  

In 2000, Old Merck and Schering-Plough (collectively, the
     Partners ) entered into an agreement to create an
    equally-owned partnership to develop and market in the United
    States new prescription medicines for cholesterol management. In
    2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of
    cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched in the United States
    as  Zetia  (marketed as  Ezetrol  outside the United
    States). In 2004, a combination product containing the active
    ingredients of both  Zetia  and  Zocor  was approved
    in the United States as  Vytorin  (marketed as  Inegy
     outside of the United States). The cholesterol agreements
    provided for the sharing of operating income generated by the
    MSP Partnership based upon percentages that varied by product,
    sales level and country. Operating income included expenses that
    the Partners contractually agreed to share. Expenses incurred in
    support of the MSP Partnership but not shared between the
    Partners were not included in  Equity income from
    affiliates ; however, these costs were reflected in the
    overall results of the Partners.

As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly-owned
    by the Company. Merck s share of the results of the MSP
    Partnership through the date of the Merger is reflected in
     Equity income from affiliates . Activity resulting from
    the sale of MSP Partnership products after the Merger has been
    consolidated with Merck s results.

See Note 12 for information with respect to litigation
    involving the MSP Partnership and the Partners related to the
    sale and promotion of  Zetia  and  Vytorin .

Summarized financial information for the MSP Partnership is as
    follows:

(1)    

Old Merck s share of the MSP Partnership s income
    before taxes differs from the equity income recognized from the
    MSP Partnership primarily due to the timing of recognition of
    certain transactions between Old Merck and the MSP Partnership
    during the periods presented, including milestone payments. 

Merial
    Limited  

In 1997, Old Merck and Rh ne-Poulenc S.A. (now
    sanofi-aventis) combined their animal health businesses to
    form Merial Limited ( Merial ), a fully
    integrated animal health company, which was a stand-alone joint
    venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a
    comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance
    the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal
    species. On September 17, 2009, Old Merck sold its 50%
    interest in Merial to sanofi-aventis for $4.0 billion in
    cash. The sale resulted in the recognition of a
    $3.2 billion pretax gain in 2009 reflected in  Other
    income (expense), net .

In connection with the sale of Merial, Old Merck, sanofi-aventis
    and Schering-Plough signed a call option agreement which
    provided sanofi-aventis with an option to require the Company to
    combine its Intervet/Schering-Plough Animal Health business with
    Merial to form an animal health joint venture that would be
    owned equally by

121

the Company and sanofi-aventis. In March 2010, sanofi-aventis
    exercised its option. As part of the call option agreement, the
    value of Merial has been fixed at $8.0 billion. The minimum
    total value to be received by the Company for contributing
    Intervet/Schering-Plough to the combined entity would be
    $9.25 billion (subject to customary transaction
    adjustments), consisting of a floor valuation of
    Intervet/Schering-Plough which is fixed at a minimum of
    $8.5 billion (which was subject to potential upward
    revision based on a valuation exercise by the two parties) and
    an additional payment by sanofi-aventis of $750 million.
    Upon completion of the valuation exercise, the parties agreed
    that a future payment of $250 million would be made by
    sanofi-aventis to the Company in addition to the
    $750 million payment referred to above. All payments,
    including adjustments for debt and certain other liabilities,
    will be made upon closing of the transaction. The formation of
    this new animal health joint venture with sanofi-aventis is
    subject to execution of final agreements, regulatory review in
    the United States, Europe and other countries and other
    customary closing conditions. On March 30, 2010, the
    parties signed the contribution agreement which obligates them,
    subject to regulatory approval, to form the joint venture. The
    Company expects the transaction to close in the third quarter of
    2011. The Company s agreement with sanofi-aventis provides
    that if the transaction has not been consummated by
    March 30, 2011 either party may terminate the proposed
    joint venture without paying a
     break-up  fee
    or other penalty.

Merial sales were $1.8 billion for the period from
    January 1, 2009 until the September 17, 2009
    divestiture date and $2.6 billion for 2008.

Sanofi
    Pasteur MSD  

In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur M rieux Connaught (now
    Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established an equally-owned joint venture
    to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the
    development of combination vaccines for distribution in Europe.
    Joint venture vaccine sales were $1.2 billion for 2010,
    $1.6 billion for 2009 and $1.9 billion for 2008.

Johnson  
    Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company  

In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with
    Johnson   Johnson to develop and market a broad range
    of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50%
    owned venture was subsequently expanded into Canada. Significant
    joint venture products are  Pepcid AC , an
     over-the-counter 
    form of the Company s ulcer medication  Pepcid , as
    well as  Pepcid Complete , an
     over-the-counter 
    product which combines the Company s ulcer medication with
    antacids. Sales of products marketed by the joint venture were
    $129 million for 2010, $203 million for 2009 and
    $212 million for 2008.

Investments in affiliates accounted for using the equity method,
    including the above joint ventures, totaled $494 million at
    December 31, 2010 and $881 million at
    December 31, 2009. These amounts are reported in  Other
    assets . Amounts due from the above joint ventures included
    in  Deferred income taxes and other current assets  were
    $348 million at December 31, 2010 and
    $339 million at December 31, 2009.

Summarized information for those affiliates (excluding the MSP
    Partnership and AZLP disclosed separately above) is as follows:

122

11.    

Loans
    Payable, Long-Term Debt and Other Commitments  

Loans payable at December 31, 2010 included
    $1.5 billion of notes due in 2011, $250 million of
    commercial paper and $142 million of short-term foreign
    borrowings. In addition, loans payable included
    $496 million of long-dated notes that are subjected to
    repayment at the option of the holders, of which
    $159 million are subject to such repayment beginning in
    2011 and were reclassified from long-term debt during 2010.
    Loans payable at December 31, 2009 included
    $739 million of Euro-denominated 5.00% notes due in
    2010 and short-term foreign borrowings of $236 million.
    Also included in loans payable at December 31, 2009 was
    $404 million of long-dated notes that are subject to
    repayment at the option of the holders.

Long-term debt at December 31 consisted of:

At December 31, 2010, the Company was a party to interest
    rate swap contracts which effectively convert the 2.25%
    fixed-rate notes and $750 million of the 4.00% fixed-rate
    notes to floating-rate instruments. In addition, the Company was
    a party to interest rate swap contracts which effectively
    convert the 5.125% fixed-rate notes due in 2011, which are
    included in  Loans payable and current portion of long-term
    debt , to floating-rate instruments (see Note 7).

Other (as presented in the table above) at December 31,
    2010 and 2009 consisted of $28 million and
    $187 million of borrowings at variable rates averaging 0.4%
    and 0.0%, respectively. Of the 2009 borrowings,
    $159 million is subject to repayment at the option of the
    holders beginning in 2011 and was reclassified from long-term
    debt during 2010. Other also included foreign borrowings of
    $98 million and $101 million at December 31, 2010
    and 2009, respectively, at varying rates up to 8.5% for 2010 and
    11.7% for 2009.

During 2010, the Company repaid $610 million of
    euro-denominated notes due to mature in 2012. Funding to repay
    the notes was provided through the issuance of commercial paper.

In December 2010, Merck closed an underwritten public offering
    of $2.0 billion senior unsecured notes consisting of
    $850 million aggregate principal amount of 2.25% notes
    due 2016 and $1.15 billion aggregate

123

principal amount of 3.875% notes due 2021. Interest on the
    notes is payable semi-annually. The notes of each series are
    redeemable in whole or in part at any time, at the
    Company s option at varying redemption prices. Proceeds
    from the notes were used for general corporate purposes,
    including the reduction of short-term debt.

The 5.375% euro-denominated notes due 2014, the 5.30% notes
    due 2013, the 6.50% notes due 2033, the 6.00% notes
    due 2017 and the 6.55% notes due 2037 are redeemable in
    whole or in part, at Merck s option at any time, at the
    redemption prices specified in each notes associated prospectus.
    With respect to the euro-denominated notes, the 6.00% notes
    and the 6.55% notes, if a change of control triggering
    event (as defined therein) occurs, under certain circumstances,
    as defined in each notes associated prospectus, holders of the
    notes will have the right to require Merck to repurchase all or
    any part of the notes for a cash payment equal to 101% of the
    aggregate principal amount of the notes repurchased plus accrued
    and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase.

In connection with the Merger, effective as of November 3,
    2009, New Merck executed a full and unconditional guarantee of
    the then existing debt of Old Merck and Old Merck executed a
    full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of
    New Merck (excluding commercial paper), including for payments
    of principal and interest. These guarantees do not extend to
    debt issued subsequent to the Merger.

The aggregate maturities of long-term debt for each of the next
    five years are as follows: 2011, $1.5 billion; 2012,
    $20 million; 2013, $1.9 billion; 2014,
    $2.1 billion; 2015, $2.1 billion.

During 2010, the Company executed a new $2.0 billion,
     364-day 
    credit facility and terminated both Old Merck s
    $1.0 billion incremental facility due to expire in November
    2010 and its $1.5 billion revolving credit facility
    scheduled to mature in April 2013. The Company s
    $2.0 billion credit facility maturing in August 2012
    remains outstanding. Both outstanding facilities provide backup
    liquidity for the Company s commercial paper borrowing
    facility and are to be used for general corporate purposes. The
    Company has not drawn funding from either facility.

Rental expense under operating leases, net of sublease income,
    was $431 million in 2010, $237 million in 2009 and
    $222 million in 2008. The minimum aggregate rental
    commitments under noncancellable leases are as follows: 2011,
    $247 million; 2012, $187 million; 2013,
    $142 million; 2014, $93 million; 2015,
    $85 million and thereafter, $125 million. The Company
    has no significant capital leases.

12.    

Contingencies
    and Environmental Liabilities  

The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings
    of a nature considered normal to its business, including product
    liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as
    well as additional matters such as antitrust actions. The
    Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable
    that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be
    reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically
    as assessments change or additional information becomes
    available. For product liability claims, a portion of the
    overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such
    factors as past experience, number of claims reported and
    estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually
    significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and
    reasonably estimable. Legal defense costs expected to be
    incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when
    probable and reasonably estimable.

The Company s decision to obtain insurance coverage is
    dependent on market conditions, including cost and availability,
    existing at the time such decisions are made. As a result of a
    number of factors, product liability insurance has become less
    available while the cost has increased significantly. The
    Company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost
    of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely
    benefits of the coverage that is available and as such, has no
    insurance for certain product liabilities effective
    August 1, 2004, including liability for Old Merck products
    first sold after that date. The Company will continue to
    evaluate its insurance needs and the costs, availability and
    benefits of product liability insurance in the future.

124

Vioxx
    Litigation  

Product
    Liability Lawsuits  

As previously disclosed, individual and putative class actions
    have been filed against Old Merck in state and federal courts
    alleging personal injury
     and/or 
    economic loss with respect to the purchase or use of
     Vioxx . All such actions filed in federal court are
    coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the
    U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana
    (the  MDL ) before District Judge Eldon E. Fallon. A
    number of such actions filed in state court are coordinated in
    separate coordinated proceedings in state courts in California
    and Texas, and the counties of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and
    Washoe and Clark Counties, Nevada. On October 26, 2010, the
    New Jersey Supreme Court dissolved the New Jersey Coordinated
     Vioxx  Proceeding. (All of the actions discussed in this
    paragraph and in  Other Lawsuits  below are
    collectively referred to as the   Vioxx  Product
    Liability Lawsuits. )

Of the plaintiff groups in the  Vioxx  Product Liability
    Lawsuits described above, the vast majority enrolled in the
     Vioxx  Settlement Program, described below. As of
    December 31, 2010, approximately 35 plaintiff groups who
    were otherwise eligible for the Settlement Program did not
    participate and their claims remain pending against Old Merck.
    In addition, the claims of approximately 130 plaintiff groups
    who were not eligible for the Settlement Program remain pending
    against Old Merck. A number of these 130 plaintiff groups are
    subject to various motions to dismiss for failure to comply with
    court-ordered deadlines. The claims of over 47,775 plaintiffs
    had been dismissed as of December 31, 2010, the vast
    majority of which were dismissed as a result of the settlement
    process discussed below.

On November 9, 2007, Old Merck announced that it had
    entered into an agreement (the  Settlement Agreement )
    with the law firms that comprise the executive committee of the
    Plaintiffs  Steering Committee ( PSC ) of the
    federal  Vioxx  MDL, as well as representatives of
    plaintiffs  counsel in the Texas, New Jersey and California
    state coordinated proceedings, to resolve state and federal
    myocardial infarction ( MI ) and ischemic stroke
    ( IS ) claims filed as of that date in the United
    States. The Settlement Agreement applied only to U.S. legal
    residents and those who alleged that their MI or IS occurred in
    the United States. The Settlement Agreement provided for Old
    Merck to pay a fixed aggregate amount of $4.85 billion into
    two funds ($4.0 billion for MI claims and $850 million
    for IS claims) (the  Settlement Program ).

As of December 31, 2010, the processing of all MI and IS
    claims in the Settlement Program was completed and final
    payments were made to more than 99% of all claimants. The
    majority of claimants not yet paid are finalizing documents.
    There was one U.S.  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuit
    trial held in 2010. That trial, in the Louisiana Attorney
    General matter, is discussed below. There are three
    U.S.  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits currently
    scheduled for trial in 2011. Old Merck has previously disclosed
    the outcomes of several  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits
    that were tried prior to 2010.

Of the cases that went to trial, there are two unresolved
    post-trial appeals:  Ernst v. Merck  and
     Garza v. Merck . Merck has previously disclosed the
    details associated with these cases and the grounds for
    Merck s appeals.

Other
    Lawsuits  

There are still pending in various U.S. courts putative
    class actions purportedly brought on behalf of individual
    purchasers or users of  Vioxx  and seeking reimbursement of
    alleged economic loss. In the MDL proceeding, approximately 30
    such class actions remain. On June 30, 2010, Old Merck
    moved to strike the class claims or for judgment on the
    pleadings regarding the master complaint, which includes the
    above-referenced cases, and briefing on that motion was
    completed on September 23, 2010. The MDL court heard oral
    argument on Old Merck s motion on October 7, 2010, and
    took it under advisement.

On June 12, 2008, a Missouri state court certified a class
    of Missouri plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for
     out-of-pocket 
    costs relating to  Vioxx.  Trial is scheduled to begin on
    October 31, 2011. In addition, in Indiana, plaintiffs have
    filed a motion to certify a class of Indiana  Vioxx
     purchasers in a case pending before the Circuit Court of
    Marion County, Indiana. On April 1, 2010, a Kentucky state
    court denied Old Merck s motion for summary judgment and
    certified a class of Kentucky plaintiffs seeking reimbursement
    for
     out-of-pocket 
    costs relating to  Vioxx . An intermediate appellate court
    denied Old Merck s petition for a writ of mandamus, and Old
    Merck has appealed that decision to the Kentucky Supreme Court.

125

Old Merck has also been named as a defendant in several lawsuits
    brought by, or on behalf of, government entities. Twelve of
    these suits are being brought by state Attorneys General, one on
    behalf of a county, and one is being brought by a private
    citizen (as a  qui tam  suit). All of these actions, except
    for a suit brought by the Attorney General of Michigan, are in
    the MDL proceeding. The Michigan Attorney General case has been
    remanded to state court. These actions allege that Old Merck
    misrepresented the safety of  Vioxx . All but one of these
    suits seeks recovery for expenditures on  Vioxx  by
    government-funded health care programs such as Medicaid, along
    with other relief such as penalties and attorneys  fees.
    The action brought by the Attorney General of Kentucky seeks
    only penalties for alleged consumer fraud violations. The
    lawsuit brought by the county is a class action filed by
    Santa Clara County, California on behalf of all similarly
    situated California counties. Old Merck moved to dismiss the
    False Claims Act claims brought by a  qui tam  plaintiff on
    behalf of the District of Columbia in November 2010. The court
    heard oral argument on the motion on December 21, 2010, and
    took it under advisement. Old Merck also moved to dismiss the
    case brought by the Attorney General of Oklahoma in December
    2010.

On March 31, 2010, Judge Fallon partially granted and
    partially denied Old Merck s motion for summary judgment in
    the Louisiana Attorney General case. A trial on the remaining
    claims before Judge Fallon began on April 12, 2010 and was
    completed on April 21, 2010. Judge Fallon found in favor of
    Old Merck on June 29, 2010, dismissing the Attorney
    General s remaining claims with prejudice. The Louisiana
    Attorney General is appealing that ruling.

Shareholder
    Lawsuits  

As previously disclosed, in addition to the  Vioxx  Product
    Liability Lawsuits, various putative class actions and
    individual lawsuits under federal and state securities laws have
    been filed against Old Merck and various current and former
    officers and directors (the   Vioxx  Securities
    Lawsuits ). As previously disclosed, the  Vioxx
     Securities Lawsuits have been transferred by the Judicial
    Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (the  JPML ) to the
    U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey before
    District Judge Stanley R. Chesler for inclusion in a nationwide
    MDL (the  Shareholder MDL ), and have been
    consolidated for all purposes. In June 2010, Old Merck moved to
    dismiss the Fifth Amended Class Action Complaint in the
    consolidated securities action. Plaintiffs filed their
    opposition in August 2010, and Old Merck filed its reply in
    September 2010. The motion is currently pending before the
    district court.

As previously disclosed, several individual securities lawsuits
    filed by foreign institutional investors also are consolidated
    with the  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits. By stipulation,
    defendants are not required to respond to these complaints until
    the resolution of any motions to dismiss in the consolidated
    securities class action.

In addition, as previously disclosed, various putative class
    actions have been filed in federal court under the Employee
    Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ) against Old
    Merck and certain current and former officers and directors (the
      Vioxx  ERISA Lawsuits ). Those cases were
    consolidated in the Shareholder MDL before Judge Chesler. Fact
    discovery in the  Vioxx  ERISA Lawsuits closed on
    September 30, 2010. The parties have filed a proposed
    schedule for expert discovery, dispositive motions, and trial.

International
    Lawsuits  

As previously disclosed, in addition to the lawsuits discussed
    above, Old Merck has been named as a defendant in litigation
    relating to  Vioxx  in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Europe
    and Israel (collectively, the   Vioxx  Foreign
    Lawsuits ).

Following trial of a representative action in 2009, the Federal
    Court in Australia entered orders in 2010 which dismissed all
    claims against Old Merck. With regard to Old Merck s
    Australian subsidiary, Merck Sharp   Dohme (Australia)
    Pty Ltd, the court dismissed certain claims but awarded the
    named plaintiff, whom the court found suffered an MI after
    ingesting  Vioxx  for approximately 33 months, AU
    $330,465 based on statutory claims that  Vioxx  was not fit
    for purpose or of merchantable quality, even though the court
    rejected the applicant s claim that Old Merck and its
    Australian subsidiary knew or ought to have known prior to the
    voluntary withdrawal of  Vioxx  in September 2004 that
     Vioxx  materially increased the risk of MI. The court also
    determined which of its findings of fact and law are common to
    the claims of other group members whose individual claims would
    proceed with reference to those findings. Old Merck s
    subsidiary has appealed the adverse findings and the full
    Federal Court is scheduled to hear the appeal and a cross-appeal
    in August 2011.

126

In Canada, in 2006, the Superior Court in Quebec authorized a
    class action on behalf of  Vioxx  users in Quebec who
    alleged negligence and, in 2008, the Superior Court of Ontario
    certified a class of  Vioxx  users in Canada, except those
    in Quebec and Saskatchewan, who alleged negligence and an
    entitlement to elect to waive the tort. These procedural
    decisions in the Canadian litigation do not address the merits
    of the plaintiffs  claims and litigation in Canada remains
    in an early stage.

Insurance  

As previously disclosed, the Company has Directors and Officers
    insurance coverage applicable to the  Vioxx  Securities
    Lawsuits with remaining stated upper limits of approximately
    $175 million. The Company has Fiduciary and other insurance
    for the  Vioxx  ERISA Lawsuits with stated upper limits of
    approximately $275 million. As a result of the previously
    disclosed arbitration, additional insurance coverage for these
    claims should also be available, if needed, under upper-level
    excess policies that provide coverage for a variety of risks.
    There are disputes with the insurers about the availability of
    some or all of the Company s insurance coverage for these
    claims and there are likely to be additional disputes. The
    amounts actually recovered under the policies discussed in this
    paragraph may be less than the stated upper limits.

Investigations  

As previously disclosed, Old Merck has received subpoenas from
    the Department of Justice ( DOJ ) requesting
    information related to Old Merck s research, marketing and
    selling activities with respect to  Vioxx  in a federal
    health care investigation under criminal statutes. This
    investigation included subpoenas for witnesses to appear before
    a grand jury. As previously disclosed, in March 2009, Old Merck
    received a letter from the U.S. Attorney s Office for
    the District of Massachusetts identifying it as a target of the
    grand jury investigation regarding  Vioxx . On
    October 29, 2010, the Company announced that it had
    established a $950 million reserve (the   Vioxx
     Liability Reserve ) in connection with the anticipated
    resolution of the DOJ s investigation. The Company s
    discussions with the government are ongoing. Until they are
    concluded, there can be no certainty about a definitive
    resolution. Further, as previously disclosed, investigations are
    being conducted by local authorities in certain cities in Europe
    in order to determine whether any criminal charges should be
    brought concerning  Vioxx . The Company is cooperating with
    all of these governmental entities, including the DOJ, in their
    respective investigations (the   Vioxx
     Investigations ). The Company cannot predict the
    outcome of these inquiries; however, they could result in
    potential civil
     and/or 
    criminal remedies.

Reserves  

There was one U.S.  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuit
    tried in 2010. There are three U.S.  Vioxx  Product
    Liability Lawsuits currently scheduled for trial in 2011. The
    Company cannot predict the timing of any other trials related to
    the  Vioxx  Litigation (as defined below). The Company
    believes that it has meritorious defenses to the  Vioxx
     Product Liability Lawsuits,  Vioxx  Shareholder
    Lawsuits and  Vioxx  Foreign Lawsuits (collectively, the
      Vioxx  Lawsuits ) and will vigorously defend
    against them. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting
    the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many
    claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages, the
    Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and
    at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or
    range of loss with respect to the  Vioxx  Lawsuits not
    included in the Settlement Program. Other than the  Vioxx
     Liability Reserve established with respect to the DOJ
    investigation noted above, the Company has not established any
    reserves for any potential liability relating to the  Vioxx
     Lawsuits or the  Vioxx  Investigations. Unfavorable
    outcomes in the  Vioxx  Litigation could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company s financial position,
    liquidity and results of operations.

Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a
    loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably
    estimable. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had an
    aggregate reserve of approximately $110 million (the
      Vioxx  Legal Defense Costs Reserve ) solely for
    future legal defense costs related to the  Vioxx
     Litigation.

During 2010, the Company spent approximately $140 million
    in the aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide, including
    approximately $31 million in the fourth quarter of 2010,
    related to (i) the  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits,
    (ii) the  Vioxx  Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the
     Vioxx  Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the  Vioxx
     Investigations (collectively, the   Vioxx
     Litigation ). Also, during 2010, Merck recorded
    $106 million of charges,

127

including $46 million in the fourth quarter, solely for its
    future legal defense costs for the  Vioxx  Litigation.
    Consequently, as of December 31, 2010, the aggregate amount
    of the  Vioxx  Legal Defense Costs Reserve was
    approximately $76 million, which is solely for future legal
    defense costs for the  Vioxx  Litigation. Some of the
    significant factors considered in the review of the  Vioxx
     Legal Defense Costs Reserve were as follows: the actual
    costs incurred by the Company; the development of the
    Company s legal defense strategy and structure in light of
    the scope of the  Vioxx  Litigation, including the
    Settlement Agreement and the expectation that certain lawsuits
    will continue to be pending; the number of cases being brought
    against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials
    and the most current information regarding anticipated timing,
    progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities and
    trials in the  Vioxx  Litigation. The amount of the
     Vioxx  Legal Defense Costs Reserve as of December 31,
    2010 represents the Company s best estimate of the minimum
    amount of defense costs to be incurred in connection with the
    remaining aspects of the  Vioxx  Litigation; however,
    events such as additional trials in the  Vioxx  Litigation
    and other events that could arise in the course of the
     Vioxx  Litigation could affect the ultimate amount of
    defense costs to be incurred by the Company.

The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and
    review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine
    to increase the  Vioxx  Legal Defense Costs Reserve at any
    time in the future if, based upon the factors set forth, it
    believes it would be appropriate to do so.

Other
    Product Liability Litigation  

Fosamax  

As previously disclosed, Old Merck is a defendant in product
    liability lawsuits in the United States involving  Fosamax
     (the   Fosamax  Litigation ). As of
    December 31, 2010, approximately 1,295 cases, which include
    approximately 1,675 plaintiff groups, had been filed and were
    pending against Old Merck in either federal or state court,
    including one case which seeks class action certification, as
    well as damages
     and/or 
    medical monitoring. In these actions, plaintiffs allege, among
    other things, that they have suffered osteonecrosis of the jaw,
    generally subsequent to invasive dental procedures, such as
    tooth extraction or dental implants
     and/or 
    delayed healing, in association with the use of  Fosamax .
    In addition, plaintiffs in approximately 20% of these actions
    allege that they sustained stress
     and/or  low
    energy femoral fractures in association with the use of
     Fosamax . In August 2006, the JPML ordered that certain
     Fosamax  product liability cases pending in federal courts
    nationwide should be transferred and consolidated into one
    multidistrict litigation (the   Fosamax  MDL )
    for coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The  Fosamax  MDL
    has been transferred to Judge John Keenan in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.
    As a result of the JPML order, approximately 870 of the cases
    are before Judge Keenan. Judge Keenan issued a Case Management
    Order (and various amendments thereto) which set forth a
    schedule governing the proceedings focused primarily upon
    resolving the class action certification motions in 2007 and
    completing fact discovery in an initial group of 25 cases by
    October 1, 2008. Briefing and argument on plaintiffs 
    motions for certification of medical monitoring classes were
    completed in 2007 and Judge Keenan issued an order denying the
    motions on January 3, 2008. In January 2008, Judge Keenan
    issued a further order dismissing with prejudice all class
    claims asserted in the first four class action lawsuits filed
    against Old Merck that sought personal injury damages
     and/or 
    medical monitoring relief on a class wide basis.  Daubert
     motions were filed in May 2009 and Judge Keenan conducted a
     Daubert  hearing in July 2009. In July 2009, Judge Keenan
    issued his ruling on the parties  respective  Daubert
     motions. The ruling denied the Plaintiff Steering
    Committee s motion and granted in part and denied in
    part Old Merck s motion. In the first  Fosamax
     MDL trial,  Boles v. Merck , the  Fosamax
     MDL court declared a mistrial because the eight person jury
    could not reach a unanimous verdict. The  Boles  case was
    retried in June 2010 and resulted in a verdict in favor of the
    plaintiff in the amount of $8 million. Merck filed
    post-trial motions seeking judgment as a matter of law or, in
    the alternative, a new trial. On October 4, 2010, the court
    denied Merck s post-trial motions but  sua sponte
     ordered a remittitur, reducing the verdict to
    $1.5 million. Plaintiff rejected the remittitur ordered by
    the court and requested a new trial on damages. The Company has
    filed a motion for interlocutory appeal.

In the next  Fosamax  MDL case set for trial,
     Maley v. Merck , the jury in May 2010 returned a
    unanimous verdict in Merck s favor. On February 1,
    2010, Judge Keenan selected a new bellwether case,  Judith
    Graves v. Merck , to replace the  Flemings
     bellwether case, which the  Fosamax  MDL court
    dismissed when it granted summary judgment in favor of Old
    Merck. In November 2010, the Second Circuit affirmed the
    Court s granting of summary

128

judgment in favor of Old Merck in the  Flemings  case. In
     Graves , the jury returned a unanimous verdict in favor of
    Old Merck in November 2010.

The next trials scheduled in the  Fosamax  MDL are
     Secrest v. Merck , which is scheduled to begin on
    March 14, 2011, and  Hester v. Merck , which is
    scheduled to begin on May 9, 2011. In addition, Judge
    Keenan ordered on February 4, 2011 that there will be two
    further bellwether trials conducted in the  Fosamax  MDL.
    The cases to be tried and the trial dates for those cases have
    not yet been determined.

Outside the  Fosamax  MDL, a trial in Florida was scheduled
    to begin on June 21, 2010 but the Florida state court
    postponed the trial date until sometime after January 1,
    2011.

In addition, in July 2008, an application was made by the
    Atlantic County Superior Court of New Jersey requesting that all
    of the  Fosamax  cases pending in New Jersey be considered
    for mass tort designation and centralized management before one
    judge in New Jersey. In October 2008, the New Jersey Supreme
    Court ordered that all pending and future actions filed in New
    Jersey arising out of the use of  Fosamax  and seeking
    damages for existing dental and jaw-related injuries, including
    osteonecrosis of the jaw, but not solely seeking medical
    monitoring, be designated as a mass tort for centralized
    management purposes before Judge Higbee in Atlantic County
    Superior Court. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 385
    cases were pending against Old Merck in Atlantic County, New
    Jersey. On July 20, 2009, Judge Higbee entered a Case
    Management Order (and various amendments thereto) setting forth
    a schedule that contemplates completing fact and expert
    discovery in an initial group of cases to be worked up for
    trial. On February 14, 2011, the jury in
     Rosenberg v. Merck , the first trial in the New
    Jersey coordinated proceeding, returned a verdict in
    Merck s favor.

Discovery is ongoing in the  Fosamax  MDL litigation, the
    New Jersey coordinated proceeding, and the remaining
    jurisdictions where  Fosamax  cases are pending. The
    Company intends to defend against these lawsuits.

NuvaRing  

Beginning in May 2007, a number of complaints were filed in
    various jurisdictions asserting claims against the
    Company s subsidiaries Organon USA, Inc., Organon
    Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Organon International (collectively,
     Organon ), and Schering-Plough arising from
    Organon s marketing and sale of  NuvaRing , a combined
    hormonal contraceptive vaginal ring. The plaintiffs contend that
    Organon and Schering-Plough failed to adequately warn of the
    alleged increased risk of venous thromboembolism
    ( VTE ) posed by  NuvaRing ,
     and/or 
    downplayed the risk of VTE. The plaintiffs seek damages for
    injuries allegedly sustained from their product use, including
    some alleged deaths, heart attacks and strokes. The majority of
    the cases are currently pending in a federal multidistrict
    litigation (the   NuvaRing  MDL ) venued in
    Missouri and in New Jersey state court.

As of December 31, 2010, there were approximately 730
     NuvaRing  cases. Of these cases, 610 are pending in the
     NuvaRing  MDL in the U.S. District Court for the
    Eastern District of Missouri before Judge Rodney Sippel, and
    approximately 110 are pending in consolidated discovery
    proceedings in the Bergen County Superior Court of New Jersey
    before Judge Brian R. Martinotti. Four additional cases are
    pending in various other state courts.

Pursuant to the January 13, 2010 and February 19, 2010
    Orders of Judge Sippel in the  NuvaRing  MDL, the parties
    selected 26 trial pool cases which are the subject of fact
    discovery. Pursuant to Judge Martinotti s January 13,
    2010 Case Management Order, the parties selected an additional
    10 trial pool cases that are the subject of fact discovery in
    the New Jersey consolidated proceedings. Based on a revised
    scheduling order entered in both jurisdictions on
    September 15, 2010, fact discovery in these trial pool
    cases will end in June 2011 and expert discovery will end in
    February 2012. The first trials will then be scheduled in each
    jurisdiction. The Company intends to defend against these
    lawsuits

Commercial
    Litigation  

AWP
    Litigation and Investigations  

As previously disclosed, the Company
     and/or 
    certain of its subsidiaries remain defendants in cases brought
    by various states and certain New York counties alleging
    manipulation by pharmaceutical manufacturers of Average
    Wholesale Prices ( AWP ), which are sometimes used by
    public and private payors in calculating provider reimbursement
    levels. The outcome of these litigations could include
    substantial damages, the imposition of

129

substantial fines and penalties and injunctive or administrative
    remedies. In January 2010, the U.S. District Court for the
    District of Massachusetts held that a unit of the Company and
    eight other drug makers overcharged New York City and 42 New
    York counties for certain generic drugs. The court has reserved
    the issue of damages and any penalties for future proceedings.
    In the period from September 2010 through January 2011, the
    Company settled AWP cases brought by the states of Hawaii,
    Arizona, Kansas, Utah, and South Carolina. During the same
    period, the Company and several other manufacturers were named
    defendants in AWP cases brought by the states of Oklahoma and
    Louisiana. As a result, the Company
     and/or 
    certain of its subsidiaries continue to be defendants in twelve
    cases brought by states and the New York counties. Further, a
    jury in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Massachusetts found the Company liable for approximately
    $4.6 million in compensatory damages in September 2010 on
    the ground that units of Schering-Plough caused Massachusetts to
    overpay pharmacists for prescriptions of albuterol. Penalties in
    the case could be substantial, but the court has deferred a
    decision on how they should be calculated under Massachusetts
    state law and significant legal issues remain to be decided
    before penalties could be imposed in any amount. The Company
    intends to pursue a reversal of the verdict in the trial court
    and on appeal, if necessary.

Centocor
    Distribution Agreement  

On May 27, 2009, Centocor, a wholly owned subsidiary of
    Johnson   Johnson, delivered to Schering-Plough a
    notice initiating an arbitration proceeding to resolve whether,
    as a result of the Merger, Centocor is permitted to terminate
    the Company s rights to distribute and commercialize
     Remicade  and  Simponi . Sales of  Remicade  and
     Simponi  were $2.8 billion in the aggregate in 2010.
    The arbitration hearing has concluded and the Company is
    awaiting the arbitration panel s decision. An unfavorable
    outcome in the arbitration would have a material adverse effect
    on the Company s financial position, liquidity and results
    of operations.

Governmental
    Proceedings  

Effective August 2, 2010, Merck and HHS-OIG executed a
    Unified Corporate Integrity Agreement ( Unified CIA )
    which replaced the individual CIAs that had been signed by Old
    Merck and Schering-Plough prior to the Merger. The Unified CIA
    incorporates certain of the requirements of the individual CIAs
    of Old Merck and Schering-Plough and is similar, although not
    identical, to those legacy CIAs. Merck assumed the compliance
    obligations of the Unified CIA through February 5, 2013,
    which is the same as the Old Merck CIA. The Company believes
    that its promotional practices and Medicaid price reports meet
    the requirements of the Unified CIA.

As previously disclosed, the Company has received letters from
    the DOJ and the SEC that seek information about activities in a
    number of countries and reference the Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act. The Company is cooperating with the agencies in their
    requests and believes that this inquiry is part of a broader
    review of pharmaceutical industry practices in foreign
    countries. In that regard, the Company has received and may
    continue to receive additional requests for information from
    either or both of the DOJ and the SEC.

Vytorin/Zetia    
     Litigation 

As previously disclosed, in April 2008, an Old Merck shareholder
    filed a putative class action lawsuit in federal court in the
    Eastern District of Pennsylvania alleging that Old Merck
    violated the federal securities laws. This suit has since been
    withdrawn and re-filed in the District of New Jersey and has
    been consolidated with another federal securities lawsuit under
    the caption  In re Merck   Co., Inc. Vytorin
    Securities Litigation . An amended consolidated complaint was
    filed in October 2008, and names as defendants Old Merck;
    Merck/Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals, LLC; and certain of the
    Company s current and former officers and directors.
    Specifically, the complaint alleges that Old Merck delayed
    releasing unfavorable results of the ENHANCE clinical trial
    regarding the efficacy of  Vytorin  and that Old Merck made
    false and misleading statements about expected earnings, knowing
    that once the results of the  Vytorin  study were released,
    sales of  Vytorin  would decline and Old Merck s
    earnings would suffer. In December 2008, Old Merck and the other
    defendants moved to dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds that the
    plaintiffs failed to state a claim for which relief can be
    granted. In September 2009, the court issued an opinion and
    order denying the defendants  motion to dismiss this
    lawsuit, and in October 2009, Old Merck and the other defendants
    filed an answer to the amended consolidated complaint. There is
    a similar consolidated, putative class action securities lawsuit
    pending in the District of New Jersey, filed by a
    Schering-Plough shareholder against

130

Schering-Plough and its former Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer, Fred Hassan, under the caption  In re
    Schering-Plough Corporation/ENHANCE Securities Litigation .
    The amended consolidated complaint was filed in September 2008
    and names as defendants Schering-Plough, Merck/Schering-Plough
    Pharmaceuticals, LLC; certain of the Company s current and
    former officers and directors; and underwriters who participated
    in an August 2007 public offering of Schering-Plough s
    common and preferred stock. In December 2008, Schering-Plough
    and the other defendants filed motions to dismiss this lawsuit
    on the grounds that the plaintiffs failed to state a claim for
    which relief can be granted. In September 2009, the court issued
    an opinion and order denying the defendants  motion to
    dismiss this lawsuit. The defendants filed an answer to the
    consolidated amended complaint in November 2009.

As previously disclosed, in April 2008, a member of an Old Merck
    ERISA plan filed a putative class action lawsuit against Old
    Merck and certain of the Company s current and former
    officers and directors alleging they breached their fiduciary
    duties under ERISA. Since that time, there have been other
    similar ERISA lawsuits filed against Old Merck in the District
    of New Jersey, and all of those lawsuits have been consolidated
    under the caption  In re Merck   Co., Inc. Vytorin
    ERISA Litigation . A consolidated amended complaint was filed
    in February 2009, and names as defendants Old Merck and various
    current and former members of the Company s Board of
    Directors. The plaintiffs allege that the ERISA plans 
    investment in Old Merck stock was imprudent because Old
    Merck s earnings are dependent on the commercial success of
    its cholesterol drug  Vytorin  and that defendants knew or
    should have known that the results of a scientific study would
    cause the medical community to turn to less expensive drugs for
    cholesterol management. In April 2009, Old Merck and the other
    defendants moved to dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds that the
    plaintiffs failed to state a claim for which relief can be
    granted. In September 2009, the court issued an opinion and
    order denying the defendants  motion to dismiss this
    lawsuit. In November 2009, the plaintiffs moved to strike
    certain of the defendants  affirmative defenses. That
    motion was denied in part and granted in part in June 2010, and
    an amended answer was filed in July 2010.

There is a similar consolidated, putative class action ERISA
    lawsuit currently pending in the District of New Jersey, filed
    by a member of a Schering-Plough ERISA plan against
    Schering-Plough and certain of its current and former officers
    and directors, alleging they breached their fiduciary duties
    under ERISA, and under the caption  In re Schering-Plough
    Corp. ENHANCE ERISA Litigation . The consolidated amended
    complaint was filed in October 2009 and names as defendants
    Schering-Plough, various current and former members of
    Schering-Plough s Board of Directors and current and former
    members of committees of Schering-Plough s Board of
    Directors. In November 2009, the Company and the other
    defendants filed a motion to dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds
    that the plaintiffs failed to state a claim for which relief can
    be granted. The plaintiffs  opposition to the motion to
    dismiss was filed in December 2009, and the motion was fully
    briefed in January 2010. That motion was denied in June 2010. In
    September 2010, defendants filed an answer to the amended
    complaint in this matter.

In November 2009, a stockholder of the Company filed a
    shareholder derivative lawsuit,  In re Local No. 38
    International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Pension Fund
     v.  Clark  (  Local No. 38  ), in
    the District of New Jersey, on behalf of the nominal defendant,
    the Company, and all shareholders of the Company, against the
    Company; certain of the Company s officers, directors and
    alleged insiders; and certain of the predecessor companies 
    former officers, directors and alleged insiders for alleged
    breaches of fiduciary duties, waste, unjust enrichment and gross
    mismanagement. A similar shareholder derivative lawsuit,  Cain
     v.  Hassan , was filed by a Schering-Plough stockholder
    and is currently pending in the District of New Jersey. An
    amended complaint was filed in May 2008, by the Schering-Plough
    stockholder on behalf of the nominal defendant, Schering-Plough,
    and all Schering-Plough shareholders. The lawsuit is against the
    Company, Schering-Plough s then-current Board of Directors,
    and certain of Schering-Plough s current and former
    officers, directors and alleged insiders. The plaintiffs in both
     Local No. 38  and  Cain  v.  Hassan  allege
    that the defendants withheld the ENHANCE study results and made
    false and misleading statements, thereby deceiving and causing
    harm to the Company and Schering-Plough, respectively, and to
    the investing public, unjustly enriching insiders and wasting
    corporate assets. The defendants in  Local No. 38
     intend to move to dismiss the plaintiff s complaint.
    The defendants in  Cain  v.  Hassan  moved to dismiss
    the amended complaint in July 2008, and that motion was fully
    briefed in October 2008. A decision remains pending. In November
    2010, a Company shareholder filed a derivative lawsuit in state
    court in New Jersey. This case, captioned  Rose v.
    Hassan , asserts claims that are substantially identical to
    the claims alleged in  Cain v. Hassan .

131

Discovery in the cases referred to in this section will be
    coordinated and has commenced. The Company intends to defend the
    lawsuits referred to in this section. Unfavorable outcomes
    resulting from the government investigations or the civil
    litigations could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial position, liquidity and results of
    operations.

Insurance  

The Company has Directors and Officers insurance coverage
    applicable to the  Vytorin  shareholder lawsuits with
    stated upper limits of approximately $250 million. The
    Company has Fiduciary and other insurance for the  Vytorin
     ERISA lawsuits with approximately $265 million. There
    are disputes with the insurers about the availability of some or
    all of the Company s insurance coverage for these claims
    and there are likely to be additional disputes. The amounts
    actually recovered under the policies discussed in this
    paragraph may be less than the stated limits.

Securities
    and Class Action Litigation  

K-DUR
    Antitrust Litigation  

In June 1997 and January 1998, Schering-Plough settled patent
    litigation with Upsher-Smith, Inc. ( Upsher-Smith )
    and ESI Lederle, Inc. ( Lederle ), respectively,
    relating to generic versions of K-DUR, Schering-Plough s
    long-acting potassium chloride product supplement used by
    cardiac patients, for which Lederle and Upsher-Smith had filed
    Abbreviated New Drug Applications ( ANDAs ). Following
    the commencement of an administrative proceeding by the United
    States Federal Trade Commission (the  FTC ) in 2001
    alleging anti-competitive effects from those settlements (which
    has been resolved in Schering-Plough s favor), alleged
    class action suits were filed in federal and state courts on
    behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of K-DUR against
    Schering-Plough, Upsher-Smith and Lederle. These suits claimed
    violations of federal and state antitrust laws, as well as other
    state statutory and common law causes of action. These suits
    sought unspecified damages. In April 2008, the indirect
    purchasers voluntarily dismissed their case. In February 2009, a
    Special Master recommended that the U.S. District Court for
    the District of New Jersey dismiss the class action lawsuits on
    summary judgment and, in March 2010, the District Court adopted
    the recommendation, granted summary judgment to the defendants,
    and dismissed the matter in its entirety. Plaintiffs have
    appealed this decision to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals.
    Defendants are simultaneously appealing a December 2008 decision
    by the District Court to certify certain direct purchaser
    plaintiffs  claims as a class action. In May 2010, the
    Superior Court for Alameda County, California also granted
    summary judgment in defendants  favor, dismissing a related
    California state law case making similar allegations regarding
    Schering-Plough s settlements with Upsher-Smith and
    Lederle. That decision is now final.

Vaccine
    Litigation  

As previously disclosed, Old Merck is a party to individual
    product liability lawsuits and claims in the United States
    involving pediatric vaccines (e.g., hepatitis B vaccine) that
    contained thimerosal, a preservative used in vaccines. As of
    December 31, 2010, there were approximately 110 thimerosal
    related lawsuits pending in which Old Merck is a defendant,
    although the vast majority of those lawsuits are not currently
    active. Other defendants include other vaccine manufacturers who
    produced pediatric vaccines containing thimerosal as well as
    manufacturers of thimerosal. In these actions, the plaintiffs
    allege, among other things, that they have suffered neurological
    injuries as a result of exposure to thimerosal from pediatric
    vaccines. There are no cases currently scheduled for trial. The
    Company will defend against these lawsuits; however, it is
    possible that unfavorable outcomes could have a material adverse
    effect on the Company s financial position, liquidity and
    results of operations.

Old Merck has been successful in having cases of this type
    either dismissed or stayed on the ground that the action is
    prohibited under the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act (the
     Vaccine Act ). The Vaccine Act prohibits any person
    from filing or maintaining a civil action (in state or federal
    court) seeking damages against a vaccine manufacturer for
    vaccine-related injuries unless a petition is first filed in the
    United States Court of Federal Claims (hereinafter the
     Vaccine Court ). Under the Vaccine Act, before filing
    a civil action against a vaccine manufacturer, the petitioner
    must either (a) pursue his or her petition to conclusion in
    Vaccine Court and then timely file an election to proceed with a
    civil action in lieu of accepting the Vaccine Court s
    adjudication of the petition or (b) timely exercise a right
    to withdraw the petition prior to Vaccine Court adjudication in
    accordance with certain

132

statutorily prescribed time periods. Old Merck is not a party to
    Vaccine Court proceedings because the petitions are brought
    against the United States Department of Health and Human
    Services.

The Company is aware that there are approximately 5,000 cases
    pending in the Vaccine Court involving allegations that
    thimerosal-containing vaccines
     and/or  the
     M-M-R  II vaccine cause autism spectrum disorders. Not all
    of the thimerosal-containing vaccines involved in the Vaccine
    Court proceeding are Company vaccines. The Company is the sole
    source of the  M-M-R  II vaccine domestically. The Special
    Masters presiding over the Vaccine Court proceedings held
    hearings in three test cases involving the theory that the
    combination of  M-M-R  II vaccine and thimerosal in
    vaccines causes autism spectrum disorders. In February 2009, the
    Special Masters issued decisions in each of those cases, finding
    that the theory was unsupported by valid scientific evidence and
    that the petitioners in the three cases were therefore not
    entitled to compensation. Two of those three cases were
    appealed. In May 2010, the United States Court of Appeals for
    the Federal Circuit issued an opinion affirming one of the
    appealed cases. In August 2010, that court issued an opinion
    affirming the second case. The Special Masters also held similar
    hearings in three different test cases involving the theory that
    thimerosal in vaccines alone causes autism spectrum disorders.
    In March 2010, the Special Masters issued decisions in this
    second set of test cases, finding that the theory was also
    unsupported by valid scientific evidence and that the
    petitioners in these cases were also not entitled to
    compensation. The petitioners in this second set of test cases
    did not exercise their options to seek review of those
    decisions. Accordingly, in April 2010, final judgments were
    entered in this second set of test cases. The Special Masters
    had previously indicated that they would hold similar hearings
    involving the theory that
      M-M-R 
     II alone causes autism spectrum disorders, but they have
    stated that they no longer intend to do so. The Vaccine Court
    has indicated that it intends to use the evidence presented at
    these test case hearings to guide the adjudication of the
    remaining autism spectrum disorder cases.

Patent
    Litigation  

From time to time, generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical
    products file ANDA s with the FDA seeking to market generic
    forms of the Company s products prior to the expiration of
    relevant patents owned by the Company. To protect its patent
    rights the Company may file patent infringement lawsuits against
    such generic companies. Certain products of the Company (or
    marketed via agreements with other companies) currently involved
    in such patent infringement litigation in the United States
    include:  Cancidas ,  Integrilin ,  Nasonex,
     Nexium,  Propecia, Temodar, Vytorin and Zetia . Similar
    lawsuits defending the Company s patent rights may exist in
    other countries. The Company intends to vigorously defend its
    patents, which it believes are valid, against infringement by
    generic companies attempting to market products prior to the
    expiration of such patents. As with any litigation, there can be
    no assurance of the outcomes, which, if adverse, could result in
    significantly shortened periods of exclusivity for these
    products.

Cancidas    In November 2009, a patent
    infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Teva
    Parenteral Medicines, Inc. ( TPM ) in respect of
    TPM s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry
    approval to sell a generic version of  Cancidas . The
    lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of TPM s
    application until April 21, 2012 or until an adverse
    decision, if any, whichever may occur first. Also, in March 2010
    a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States
    against Sandoz Inc. ( Sandoz ) in respect of
    Sandoz s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry
    approval to sell a generic version of  Cancidas . The
    lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Sandoz s
    application until August 24, 2012 or until an adverse court
    decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier.

Integrilin    In February 2009, a patent
    infringement lawsuit was filed (jointly with Millennium
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Millennium ) in the United
    States against TPM in respect of TPM s application to the
    FDA seeking approval to sell a generic version of  Integrilin
     prior to the expiry of the last to expire listed patent. As
    TPM did not challenge certain patents which will not expire
    until November 2014, FDA approval of the TPM application cannot
    occur any earlier than November 2014, however, it could be later
    in the event of a favorable decision in the lawsuit for the
    Company and Millennium.

Nasonex    In December 2009, a patent
    infringement suit was filed in the United States against Apotex
    in respect of Apotex s application to the FDA seeking
    pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of

133

Nasonex . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of
    Apotex s ANDA until May 2012 or until an adverse court
    decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier.

Nexium   In November 2005, a patent infringement
    lawsuit was filed (jointly with AstraZeneca) in the United
    States against Ranbaxy in respect of Ranbaxy s application
    to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic
    version of Nexium. As previously disclosed, AstraZeneca, Merck
    and Ranbaxy entered into a settlement agreement which provided
    that Ranbaxy would be entitled to bring its generic esomeprazole
    product to market in the United States on May 27, 2014. The
    Company and AstraZeneca each received a CID from the FTC in July
    2008 regarding the settlement agreement with Ranbaxy. The
    Company is cooperating with the FTC in responding to this CID.
    In March 2006, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed (jointly
    with AstraZeneca) against IVAX (later acquired by Teva
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Teva ), in respect of
    IVAX s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry
    approval to sell a generic version of Nexium. In January 2010,
    AstraZeneca, Merck and Teva/IVAX entered into a settlement
    agreement which provides that Teva/IVAX would be entitled to
    bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United
    States on May 27, 2014. Patent infringement lawsuits have
    also been filed in the United States against
    Dr. Reddy s Laboratories ( Dr.
    Reddy s ), Sandoz and Lupin Ltd. ( Lupin )
    in respect to each s respective application to the FDA
    seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell generic versions of
    Nexium. These lawsuits are ongoing with no trial dates presently
    scheduled. In February 2011, a patent infringement lawsuit was
    filed (jointly with AstraZeneca) in the United States against
    Hamni USA, Inc. ( Hamni ) in respect of Hanmi s
    application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to
    sell a generic version of Nexium. In January 2011, AstraZeneca,
    Merck and Dr. Reddy s entered into a settlement
    agreement which provides that Dr. Reddy s would be
    entitled to bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in
    the United States on May 27, 2014. The lawsuits against
    Sandoz and Lupin are ongoing with no trial dates presently
    scheduled. A patent infringement lawsuit was also filed (jointly
    with AstraZeneca) in 2010 in the United States against Sun
    Pharma Global Fze in respect of its application to the FDA
    seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of
    Nexium IV.

Propecia    In December 2010, a patent
    infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against
    Hetero Drugs Limited ( Hetero ) in respect of
    Hetero s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry
    approval to sell a generic version of  Propecia . The
    lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Hetero s ANDA
    until April 2013 or until an adverse court decision, if any,
    whichever may occur earlier.

Temodar    In July 2007, a patent infringement
    action was filed (jointly with Cancer Research Technologies,
    Limited ( CRT ) in the United States against Barr
    (later acquired by Teva) in respect of Barr s application
    to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic
    version of  Temodar . In January 2010 the court issued a
    decision finding the CRT patent unenforceable on grounds of
    prosecution laches and inequitable conduct. In November 2010,
    the appeals court issued a decision reversing the trial
    court s finding. In December 2010, Barr filed a petition
    seeking a rehearing en banc of the appeal. By virtue of an
    agreement that Barr not launch a product during the appeal
    process, the Company has agreed that Barr can launch a product
    in August 2013.

In September 2010, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed
    (jointly with CRT) in the United States against Sun
    Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. ( Sun ) in respect of
    Sun s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry
    approval to sell a generic version of  Temodar . The
    lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Sun s ANDA
    until February 2013 or until an adverse court decision, if any,
    whichever may occur earlier. In November 2010, a patent
    infringement lawsuit was filed (jointly with CRT) in the against
    Accord HealthCare Inc. ( Accord ) in respect of its
    application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to
    sell a generic version of  Temodar . The Company, CRT and
    Accord have entered an agreement to stay the lawsuit pending the
    outcome of the appeal en banc process in the Barr lawsuit.

Vytorin    In December 2009, a patent
    infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against
    Mylan in respect of Mylan s application to the FDA seeking
    pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of
     Vytorin . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of
    Mylan s application until May 2012 or until an adverse
    court decision, if any whichever may occur earlier. In February
    2010, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United
    States against Teva in respect of Teva s application to the
    FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version
    of  Vytorin . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval
    of Teva s application until August 2013 or until an adverse
    court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. In August
    2010, a patent infringement lawsuit was

134

filed in the United States against Impax Laboratories Inc.
    ( Impax ) in respect of Impax s application to
    the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic
    version of  Vytorin . An agreement was reached with Impax
    to stay the lawsuit pending the outcome of the lawsuit with
    Mylan.

Zetia    In March 2007, a patent infringement
    lawsuit was filed in the United States against Glenmark
    Pharmaceuticals Inc., USA and its parent corporation
    (collectively,  Glenmark ) in respect of
    Glenmark s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry
    approval to sell a generic version of  Zetia . In May 2010,
    Glenmark agreed to a settlement by virtue of which Glenmark will
    be permitted to launch its generic product in the United States
    on December 12, 2016, subject to receiving final FDA
    approval. In June 2010, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed
    in the United States against Mylan in respect of Mylan s
    application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to
    sell a generic version of  Zetia . The lawsuit
    automatically stays FDA approval of Mylan s application
    until December 2012 or until an adverse court decision, if any,
    whichever may occur earlier. In September 2010, a patent
    infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Teva
    in respect of Teva s application to the FDA seeking
    pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of
     Zetia . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of
    Teva s application until January 2013 or until an adverse
    court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier.

In September 2008, a lawsuit was filed in the Federal Court of
    Canada against Teva seeking an order of prohibition of
    Teva s application seeking pre-patent expiry approval to
    sell a generic version of ezetimibe in Canada. Teva responded
    asserting that the patent was invalid. In September 2010, the
    Federal Court of Canada issued a decision upholding the validity
    of the Company s Canadian ezetimibe patent. This decision
    was not appealed. In August 2010, a lawsuit was filed in the
    Federal Court of Canada against Mylan seeking an order of
    prohibition of Mylan s application seeking pre-patent
    expiry approval to sell a generic version of ezetimibe in
    Canada. In December 2010, Mylan withdrew its application for
    product approval prior to patent expiration in September 2014
    and the subject lawsuit was withdrawn.

Other
    Litigation  

There are various other legal proceedings, principally product
    liability and intellectual property suits involving the Company,
    that are pending. While it is not feasible to predict the
    outcome of such proceedings or the proceedings discussed in this
    Note, in the opinion of the Company, all such proceedings are
    either adequately covered by insurance or, if not so covered,
    should not ultimately result in any liability that would have a
    material adverse effect on the financial position, liquidity or
    results of operations of the Company, other than proceedings for
    which a separate assessment is provided in this Note.

Environmental
    Matters  

The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of
    proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
    Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as
    Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. These
    proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste
    disposal facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and
    generators of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean
    up the sites or to reimburse the government for cleanup costs.
    The Company has been made a party to these proceedings as an
    alleged generator of waste disposed of at the sites. In each
    case, the government alleges that the defendants are jointly and
    severally liable for the cleanup costs. Although joint and
    several liability is alleged, these proceedings are frequently
    resolved so that the allocation of cleanup costs among the
    parties more nearly reflects the relative contributions of the
    parties to the site situation. The Company s potential
    liability varies greatly from site to site. For some sites the
    potential liability is  de minimis  and for others the
    final costs of cleanup have not yet been determined. While it is
    not feasible to predict the outcome of many of these proceedings
    brought by federal or state agencies or private litigants, in
    the opinion of the Company, such proceedings should not
    ultimately result in any liability which would have a material
    adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations,
    liquidity or capital resources of the Company. The Company has
    taken an active role in identifying and providing for these
    costs and such amounts do not include any reduction for
    anticipated recoveries of cleanup costs from former site owners
    or operators or other recalcitrant potentially responsible
    parties.

135

As previously disclosed, approximately 2,200 plaintiffs have
    filed an amended complaint against Old Merck and 12 other
    defendants in U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
    California asserting claims under the Clean Water Act, the
    Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as well as negligence
    and nuisance. The suit seeks damages for personal injury,
    diminution of property value, medical monitoring and other
    alleged real and personal property damage associated with
    groundwater and soil contamination found at the site of a former
    Old Merck subsidiary in Merced, California. Certain of the other
    defendants in this suit have settled with plaintiffs regarding
    some or all aspects of plaintiffs  claims. This lawsuit is
    proceeding in a phased manner. A jury trial commenced in
    February 2011 during which a jury will be asked to make certain
    factual findings regarding whether contamination moved off-site
    to any areas where plaintiffs could have been exposed to such
    contamination and, if so, when, where and in what amounts.
    Defendants in this  Phase 1  trial include Old Merck
    and three of the other original 12 defendants. Depending on the
    results of the Phase 1 trial, later phases of the litigation may
    be required to address issues related to causation and damages
    related to specific plaintiffs.

As previously disclosed, the Environmental Protection Agency
    (the  EPA ) and Merck have tentatively agreed to a
    $260,000 fine to resolve alleged environmental violations at
    Merck s Las Piedras Puerto Rico facility. The alleged
    violations arise from an EPA air inspection conducted in July
    2008 and are primarily based on the site s leak detection
    and repair program.

In management s opinion, the liabilities for all
    environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable
    have been accrued and totaled $185 million and
    $162 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not
    consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be
    paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable
    sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next
    15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with
    certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of
    remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably
    possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the
    liabilities accrued should exceed $150 million in the
    aggregate. Management also does not believe that these
    expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial position, results of operations,
    liquidity or capital resources for any year.

In accordance with the Merck certificate of incorporation there
    are 6,500,000,000 shares of common stock and
    20,000,000 shares of preferred stock authorized. Of the
    authorized shares of preferred stock, there was a series of
    11,500,000 shares which was designated as 6% mandatory
    convertible preferred stock.

6%
    Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock  

In connection with the Merger, holders of Schering-Plough 6%
    preferred stock received 6% preferred stock (which rights were
    substantially similar to the rights of the Schering-Plough 6%
    preferred stock) in accordance with the New Merck Restated
    Certificate of Incorporation. As a result of the Merger, the 6%
    preferred stock became subject to the  make-whole 
    acquisition provisions of the preferred stock effective as of
    November 3, 2009. During the make-whole acquisition
    conversion period that ended on November 19, 2009, the 6%
    preferred stock was convertible at a make-whole conversion rate
    of 8.2021. For each share of preferred stock that was converted
    during this period, the holder received $86.12 in cash and
    4.7302 New Merck common shares. Holders also received a dividend
    make-whole payment of between $10.79 and $10.82 per share
    depending on the date of the conversion. A total of
    9,110,423 shares of 6% preferred stock were converted into
    43,093,881 shares of New Merck common stock and cash
    payments of approximately $785 million were made to those
    holders who converted. In addition, make-whole dividend payments
    of $98 million were made to those holders who converted
    representing the present value of all remaining future dividend
    payments from the conversion date through the mandatory
    conversion date on August 13, 2010 using the discount rate
    as stipulated by the terms of the preferred stock.

On August 13, 2010, the outstanding 6% mandatory
    convertible preferred stock automatically converted by its terms
    into the right to receive cash and shares of Merck common stock.
    For each share of 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock,
    holders received $85.06 in cash and 4.6719 shares of Merck
    common stock. As a result of the conversion, approximately
    $72 million was paid to the holders and approximately
    4 million Merck common shares were issued.

136

Capital
    Stock  

A summary of common stock and treasury stock transactions
    (shares in millions) is as follows:

(1)   

Issuances primarily reflect activity under share-based
    compensation plans. 

(2)   

Pursuant to the Merger agreement, certain of Old Merck s
    treasury shares were cancelled. 

Noncontrolling
    Interests  

In connection with the 1998 restructuring of AMI, Old Merck
    assumed a $2.4 billion par value preferred stock obligation
    with a dividend rate of 5% per annum, which is carried by KBI
    and included in  Noncontrolling interests . If AstraZeneca
    exercises the Shares Option (see Note 10) this
    preferred stock obligation will be settled.

14.    

Share-Based
    Compensation Plans  

The Company has share-based compensation plans under which
    employees, non-employee directors and employees of certain of
    the Company s equity method investees may be granted
    options to purchase shares of Company common stock at the fair
    market value at the time of grant. In addition to stock options,
    the Company grants performance share units ( PSUs )
    and restricted stock units ( RSUs ) to certain
    management level employees. These plans were approved by the
    Company s shareholders.

As a result of the Merger, the Schering-Plough 2006 Stock
    Incentive Plan ( Schering-Plough 2006 SIP ) was
    amended and restated. Share-based compensation instruments
    remain available for future grant under the Schering-Plough 2006
    SIP to New Merck employees who were employees of Schering-Plough
    prior to the Merger. As such, there are outstanding share-based
    compensation instruments, as well as share-based compensation
    instruments available for future grant, under Old Merck and New
    Merck incentive plans.

Also, as a result of the Merger, certain share-based
    compensation instruments previously granted under the
    Schering-Plough 2006 SIP and other legacy Schering-Plough
    incentive plans were exchanged for New Merck replacement awards.
    Other awards related to precombination services became payable
    in cash. In addition, certain stock options under
    Schering-Plough legacy incentive plans contained a
     lock-in  feature whereby an award holder could have
    elected to receive a cash payment for those stock options at a
    fixed amount based on the price of Schering-Plough s common
    stock 60 days prior to the Merger. The liability associated
    with this provision was $246 million at December 31,
    2009. Upon expiration of the exercise period associated with the
     lock-in  feature, the amount was reclassified from
    liabilities to equity. The fair value of replacement awards
    attributable to precombination service was $525 million and
    is included in the calculation of consideration transferred (see
    Note 3). A significant portion of the legacy
    Schering-Plough awards vested in the opening balance sheet at
    the time of the Merger. Those Schering-Plough share-based
    compensation instruments that did not immediately vest upon
    completion of the Merger were exchanged for New Merck
    replacement awards that generally vest on the same basis as the
    original grants made under the Schering-Plough legacy incentive
    plans and will immediately vest if the employee is terminated by
    the Company within two years of the Merger under certain
    circumstances. The fair value of New Merck replacement awards
    attributed to postcombination services is being recognized as
    compensation cost subsequent to the Merger over the requisite
    service period of the awards.

137

At December 31, 2010, 175 million shares collectively
    were authorized for future grants under the Company s
    share-based compensation plans. Prior to the Merger, employee
    share-based compensation awards were settled primarily with
    treasury shares. Subsequent to the Merger, these awards are
    either being settled with newly issued shares or treasury shares.

Employee stock options are granted to purchase shares of Company
    stock at the fair market value at the time of grant. These
    awards generally vest one-third each year over a three-year
    period, with a contractual term of 7-10 years. RSUs are
    stock awards that are granted to employees and entitle the
    holder to shares of common stock as the awards vest. The fair
    value of the stock option and RSU awards is determined and fixed
    on the grant date based on the Company s stock price. PSUs
    are stock awards where the ultimate number of shares issued will
    be contingent on the Company s performance against a
    pre-set objective or set of objectives. The fair value of each
    PSU is determined on the date of grant based on the
    Company s stock price. For RSUs and certain PSUs granted
    before December 31, 2009 employees participate in
    dividends on the same basis as common shares and such dividends
    are nonforfeitable by the holder. For RSUs and PSUs issued on or
    after January 1, 2010, dividends declared during the
    vesting period are payable to the employees only upon vesting.
    The fair value of stock option, RSU and PSU replacement awards
    was determined and fixed at the time of the Merger. Over the PSU
    performance period, the number of shares of stock that are
    expected to be issued will be adjusted based on the probability
    of achievement of a performance target and final compensation
    expense will be recognized based on the ultimate number of
    shares issued. RSU and PSU distributions will be in shares of
    Company stock after the end of the vesting or performance
    period, generally three years, subject to the terms applicable
    to such awards.

Total pretax share-based compensation cost recorded in 2010,
    2009 and 2008 was $509 million, $415 million and
    $348 million, respectively, with related income tax
    benefits of $173 million, $132 million and
    $108 million, respectively.

The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model for
    determining the fair value of option grants. In applying this
    model, the Company uses both historical data and current market
    data to estimate the fair value of its options. The
    Black-Scholes model requires several assumptions including
    expected dividend yield, risk-free interest rate, volatility,
    and term of the options. The expected dividend yield is based on
    historical patterns of dividend payments. The risk-free rate is
    based on the rate at grant date of zero-coupon
    U.S. Treasury Notes with a term equal to the expected term
    of the option. Expected volatility is estimated using a blend of
    historical and implied volatility. The historical component is
    based on historical monthly price changes. The implied
    volatility is obtained from market data on the Company s
    traded options. The expected life represents the amount of time
    that options granted are expected to be outstanding, based on
    historical and forecasted exercise behavior.

The weighted average grant price of options granted in 2010,
    2009 and 2008 was $34.30, $24.31 and $43.35 per option,
    respectively. The weighted average fair value of options granted
    in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $7.99, $4.02 and $9.80 per option,
    respectively, and were determined using the following
    assumptions:

138

Summarized information relative to stock option plan activity
    (options in thousands) is as follows:

Additional information pertaining to stock option plans is
    provided in the table below:

(1)    

The fair value of stock options vested in 2009 excludes the
    fair value of options that vested as a result of the Merger
    attributable to precombination service. 

A summary of nonvested RSU and PSU activity (shares in
    thousands) is as follows:

At December 31, 2010, there was $416 million of total
    pretax unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested
    stock options, RSU and PSU awards which will be recognized over
    a weighted average period of 1.8 years. For segment
    reporting, share-based compensation costs are unallocated
    expenses.

15.    

Pension
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans  

The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering eligible
    employees in the United States and in certain of its
    international subsidiaries. Pension benefits in the United
    States are based on a formula that considers final average pay
    and years of credited service. In addition, the Company provides
    medical, dental and life insurance benefits, principally to its
    eligible U.S. retirees and similar benefits to their
    dependents, through its other postretirement benefit plans. The
    Company uses December 31 as the year-end measurement date for
    all of its pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans.

139

Net
    Periodic Benefit Cost  

The net periodic benefit cost for pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans consisted of the following
    components:

The higher costs in 2010 and 2009 as compared with 2008 are
    primarily due to incremental costs associated with legacy
    Schering-Plough benefit plans being recognized subsequent to the
    Merger.

The net periodic benefit cost attributable to U.S. pension
    plans included in the above table was $289 million in 2010,
    $289 million in 2009 and $226 million in 2008.

In connection with restructuring actions (see Note 4),
    termination charges were recorded in 2010, 2009 and 2008 on
    pension and other postretirement benefit plans related to
    expanded eligibility for certain employees exiting Merck. Also,
    in connection with these restructuring activities, curtailments
    were recorded in 2010, 2009 and 2008 on pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans.

In addition, settlements were recorded in 2010, 2009 and 2008 on
    certain domestic and international pension plans.

Employee benefit plans are an exception to the recognition and
    fair value measurement principles in business combinations.
    Employee benefit plan obligations are recognized and measured in
    accordance with the existing authoritative literature for
    accounting for benefit plans rather than at fair value.
    Accordingly, the Company remeasured the benefit plans sponsored
    by Schering-Plough and recognized an asset or liability for the
    funded status of these plans as of the Merger Date.

140

Obligations
    and Funded Status  

Summarized information about the changes in plan assets and
    benefit obligation, the funded status and the amounts recorded
    at December 31 is as follows:

The fair value of U.S. pension plan assets included in the
    preceding table was $7.2 billion and $6.1 billion at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and the pension
    projected benefit obligation of U.S. plans was
    $8.4 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively.
    Approximately 40% and 42% of the Company s pension
    projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively, relates to international defined benefit plans, of
    which each individual plan is not significant relative to the
    total benefit obligation.

At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the accumulated benefit
    obligation was $11.8 billion and $10.7 billion,
    respectively, for all pension plans, of which $6.9 billion
    and $6.0 billion, respectively, related to
    U.S. pension plans.

For pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of plan
    assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of
    plan assets was $4.3 billion and $4.9 billion,
    respectively, and the benefit obligations were $6.4 billion
    and $7.7 billion, respectively. For those plans with
    accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of plan assets
    was $2.6 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, and
    the accumulated benefit obligations were $3.8 billion and
    $5.1 billion, respectively.

141

Plan
    Assets  

Entities are required to use a fair value hierarchy which
    maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of
    unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. There are three
    levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:

Level 1    Quoted prices in active markets
    for identical assets or liabilities. The plans 
    Level 1 assets primarily include registered investment
    companies (mutual funds) and equity securities.

Level 2    Observable inputs other than
    Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or
    liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be
    corroborated by observable market data for substantially the
    full term of the assets or liabilities. The plans 
    Level 2 assets primarily include investments in
    common/collective trusts and certain fixed income investments
    such as government and agency securities and corporate
    obligations.

Level 3    Unobservable inputs that are
    supported by little or no market activity and that are financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of fair value
    requires significant judgment or estimation. The plans 
    Level 3 assets primarily include investments in insurance
    contracts and real estate funds which are valued using
    methodologies that management understands. The plans 
    Level 3 investments in insurance contracts are generally
    valued using a crediting rate that approximates market returns
    and invest in underlying securities whose market values are
    unobservable and determined using pricing models, discounted
    cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques. The plans 
    Level 3 investments in real estate are generally valued by
    market appraisals which may be infrequent in nature. At
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, $648 million and
    $568 million, respectively, or approximately 5.0% of the
    Company s pension investments at each year end, were
    categorized as Level 3 assets.

If the inputs used to measure the financial assets fall within
    more than one level described above, the categorization is based
    on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value
    measurement of the instrument.

142

The fair values of the Company s pension plan assets at
    December 31 by asset category are as follows:

143

The table below provides a summary of the changes in fair value,
    including net transfers in
     and/or  out,
    of all financial assets measured at fair value using significant
    unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the Company s
    pension plan assets:

The fair values of the Company s other postretirement
    benefit plan assets at December 31 by asset category are as
    follows:

Total pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets
    excluded from the fair value hierarchy include interest
    receivable, as well as payables and receivables related to
    purchases and sales of investments, respectively.

The Company has established investment guidelines for its
    U.S. pension and other postretirement plans to create an
    asset allocation that is expected to deliver a rate of return
    sufficient to meet the long-term obligation of each plan, given
    an acceptable level of risk. The target investment portfolio of
    the Company s U.S. pension and other postretirement
    benefit plans is allocated 45% to 60% in U.S. equities, 20%
    to 30% in international equities, 15% to 25% in fixed-income
    investments, and up to 8% in cash and other investments. The
    portfolio s equity

144

weighting is consistent with the long-term nature of the
    plans  benefit obligations. The expected annual standard
    deviation of returns of the target portfolio, which approximates
    13%, reflects both the equity allocation and the diversification
    benefits among the asset classes in which the portfolio invests.
    For
     non-U.S. pension 
    plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the
    duration of pension liabilities and local government rules and
    regulations. Although a significant percentage of plan assets
    are invested in U.S. equities, concentration risk is
    mitigated through the use of strategies that are diversified
    within management guidelines.

Expected
    Contributions  

Contributions to the pension plans and other postretirement
    benefit plans during 2011 are expected to be approximately
    $800 million and $60 million, respectively.

Expected
    Benefit Payments  

Expected benefit payments are as follows:

Expected benefit payments are based on the same assumptions used
    to measure the benefit obligations and include estimated future
    employee service.

Amounts
    Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income  

Net loss amounts reflect experience differentials primarily
    relating to differences between expected and actual returns on
    plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial
    assumptions. Net loss amounts in excess of certain thresholds
    are amortized into net pension and other postretirement benefit
    cost over the average remaining service life of employees. The
    following amounts were reflected as components of  OCI :

The estimated net loss and prior service cost (credit) amounts
    that will be amortized from  AOCI  into net pension and
    postretirement benefit cost during 2011 are $174 million
    and $5 million, respectively, for pension plans and are
    $43 million and $(55) million, respectively, for other
    postretirement benefit plans.

145

Actuarial
    Assumptions  

The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular
    basis. The weighted average assumptions used in determining
    pension plan and U.S. pension and other postretirement
    benefit plan information are as follows:

The 2009 net cost rates in the preceding table include
    costs associated with the Schering-Plough benefit plans from the
    date of the Merger through December 31, 2009.

The expected rate of return for both the pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of
    return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits
    included in the benefit obligation are to be paid and is
    determined on a country basis. In developing the expected rate
    of return within each country, long-term historical returns data
    are considered as well as actual returns on the plan assets and
    other capital markets experience. Using this reference
    information, the long-term return expectations for each asset
    category and a weighted average expected return for each
    country s target portfolio is developed, according to the
    allocation among those investment categories. The expected
    portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active
    management as appropriate. For 2011, the Company s expected
    rate of return will range from 5.25% to 8.75% compared to a
    range of 8.00% to 8.75% in 2010 for its U.S. pension and
    other postretirement benefit plans.

The health care cost trend rate assumptions for other
    postretirement benefit plans are as follows:

A one percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate
    would have had the following effects:

One Percentage 

Point

Increase

Decrease

Effect on total service and interest cost components

$ 

50 

$ 

(39 

) 

Effect on benefit obligation

$ 

432 

$ 

(349 

) 

Savings
    Plans  

The Company also maintains defined contribution savings plans in
    the United States, including plans assumed in connection with
    the Merger. The Company matches a percentage of each
    employee s contributions consistent with the provisions of
    the plan for which the employee is eligible. Total employer
    contributions to these plans in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were
    $155 million, $111 million and $104 million,
    respectively.

146

16.    

Other
    (Income) Expense, Net  

The decline in interest income and increase in interest expense
    in 2010 as compared with 2009 is largely attributable to the
    Merger. The increase in exchange losses during 2010 is primarily
    due to the recognition of $200 million of exchange losses
    due to two Venezuelan currency devaluations as discussed below.
    The change in Other, net (as presented in the table above) for
    2010 as compared with 2009 primarily reflects a
    $7.5 billion gain in 2009 resulting from recognizing
    Merck s previously held equity interest in the MSP
    Partnership at fair value as a result of obtaining control of
    the MSP Partnership in the Merger (see Note 3), a
    $3.2 billion gain in 2009 on the sale of Old Merck s
    interest in Merial (see Note 10), a $950 million charge for
    the  Vioxx  Liability Reserve recorded in 2010 (see
    Note 12), lower recognized net gains in 2010 on the
    Company s investment portfolio and charges recognized in
    2010 related to the settlement of certain pending AWP litigation
    (see Note 12). These items were partially offset by
    $443 million of income recognized upon AstraZeneca s
    asset option exercise (see Note 10) and
    $102 million of income recognized on the settlement of
    certain disputed royalties in 2010.

Effective January 1, 2010, the Company was required to
    remeasure its local currency operations in Venezuela to
    U.S. dollars as the Venezuelan economy was determined to be
    hyperinflationary. Effective January 11, 2010, the
    Venezuelan government devalued its currency from at BsF 2.15 per
    U.S. dollar to a two-tiered official exchange rate at
    (1)  the essentials rate  at BsF 2.60 per
    U.S. dollar and (2)  the non-essentials
    rate  at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. Throughout 2010,
    the Company settled transactions at the essentials rate and
    therefore remeasured monetary assets and liabilities utilizing
    the essentials rate. In December 2010, the Venezuelan government
    announced it would eliminate the essentials rate and effective
    January 1, 2011, all transactions would be settled at the
    official rate of at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. As a result
    of this announcement, the Company remeasured its
    December 31, 2010 monetary assets and liabilities at the
    new official rate.

The decline in interest income in 2009 as compared with 2008 is
    primarily the result of lower interest rates and a change in the
    investment portfolio mix toward cash and shorter-dated
    securities in anticipation of the Merger. The increase in
    interest expense in 2009 is largely due to $173 million of
    commitment fees and incremental interest expense related to the
    financing of the Merger. Included in Other, net in 2009 was the
    $7.5 billion gain as a result of obtaining control of the
    MSP Partnership in the Merger, the $3.2 billion gain on the
    sale of Old Merck s interest in Merial, $231 million
    of investment portfolio recognized net gains, and an
    $80 million charge related to the settlement of the
     Vioxx  third-party payor litigation in the United States.
    Included in Other, net in 2008 was an aggregate gain on
    distribution from AZLP of $2.2 billion (see Note 10),
    a gain of $249 million related to the sale of the remaining
    worldwide rights to  Aggrastat , a $300 million
    expense for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation and
    $117 million of investment portfolio recognized net losses.

Interest paid was $763 million in 2010, $351 million
    in 2009, $247 million in 2008, which excludes commitment
    fees.

147

A reconciliation between the effective tax rate and the
    U.S. statutory rate is as follows:

(1)    

Other includes the tax effect of
    contingency reserves, research credits, export incentives and
    miscellaneous items.   

The 2010 tax rate reconciliation percentages reflect the impact
    of the significant decline in the Company s 2010 income
    before taxes resulting primarily from a full year of purchase
    accounting adjustments, including IPR D impairment charges,
    restructuring charges and the  Vioxx  Liability Reserve.

Income before taxes consisted of:

148

Taxes on income consisted of:

Deferred income taxes at December 31 consisted of:

The Company has net operating loss ( NOL )
    carryforwards in several jurisdictions. As of December 31,
    2010, approximately $263 million of deferred taxes on NOL
    carryforwards relate to foreign jurisdictions, none of which are
    individually significant. Approximately $148 million of
    valuation allowances have been established on these foreign NOL
    carryforwards. In addition, the Company has approximately
    $257 million of deferred tax assets relating to various
    U.S. tax credit carryforwards and state tax NOL
    carryforwards. Of these amounts, $209 million is expected to be
    fully utilized prior to expiry.

149

Income taxes paid in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $1.6 billion,
    $958 million and $1.8 billion, respectively. Stock
    option exercises did not have a significant impact on taxes paid
    in 2010, 2009 or 2008.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

If the Company were to recognize the unrecognized tax benefits
    of $4.9 billion at December 31, 2010, the income tax
    provision would reflect a favorable net impact of
    $4.2 billion.

The Company and Old Merck are both under examination by numerous
    tax authorities in various jurisdictions globally. The Company
    believes that it is reasonably possible that the total amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2010 could
    decrease by up to $2.0 billion in the next 12 months
    for both the Company and Old Merck as a result of various audit
    closures, settlements or the expiration of the statute of
    limitations. The ultimate finalization of the Company s
    examinations with relevant taxing authorities can include formal
    administrative and legal proceedings, which could have a
    significant impact on the timing of the reversal of unrecognized
    tax benefits. The Company believes that its reserves for
    uncertain tax positions are adequate to cover any risks or
    exposures.

Interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions
    amounted to an expense (benefit) of $144 million in 2010,
    $(163) million in 2009 and $101 million in 2008.
    Liabilities for accrued interest and penalties were
    $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion as of December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively.

As previously disclosed, in October 2006, the Canada Revenue
    Agency ( CRA ) issued Old Merck a notice of
    reassessment containing adjustments related to certain
    intercompany pricing matters. In February 2009, Old Merck and
    the CRA negotiated a settlement agreement in regard to these
    matters. In accordance with the settlement, Old Merck paid an
    additional tax of approximately $300 million
    (U.S. dollars) and interest of approximately
    $360 million (U.S. dollars) with no additional amounts
    or penalties due on this assessment. The settlement was
    accounted for in the first quarter of 2009. Old Merck had
    previously established reserves for these matters. A significant
    portion of the taxes paid is expected to be creditable for
    U.S. tax purposes. The resolution of these matters did not
    have a material effect on Old Merck s financial position or
    liquidity, other than with respect to the associated collateral
    as discussed below.

In addition, as previously disclosed, the CRA has proposed
    additional adjustments for 1999 and 2000 relating to other
    intercompany pricing matters. The adjustments would increase
    Canadian tax due by approximately $317 million
    (U.S. dollars) plus approximately $340 million
    (U.S. dollars) of interest through December 31, 2010.
    The Company disagrees with the positions taken by the CRA and
    believes they are without merit. The Company continues to
    contest the assessments through the CRA appeals process. The CRA
    is expected to prepare similar adjustments for later years.
    Management believes that resolution of these matters will not
    have a material effect on the Company s financial position
    or liquidity.

In connection with the appeals process discussed above related
    to 1999 and 2000, Old Merck pledged cash and investments as
    collateral to two financial institutions, one of which provided
    a guarantee to the CRA and the other to the Quebec Ministry of
    Revenue representing a portion of the tax and interest assessed.
    The guarantee to the Quebec Ministry of Revenue expired in the
    first quarter of 2009. The collateral associated with the
    guarantee to the CRA totaled approximately $290 million at
    December 31, 2009 and was included in  Deferred income
    taxes and other current assets  and  Other assets  in
    the Consolidated Balance Sheet. During 2010, this guarantee was
    replaced

150

with a guarantee that is not collateralized. Accordingly, the
    collateral associated with the original guarantee was released
    and reclassified to cash and investments.

In October 2001, Internal Revenue Service ( IRS )
    auditors asserted that two interest rate swaps that
    Schering-Plough entered into with an unrelated party should be
    re-characterized as loans from affiliated companies, resulting
    in additional tax liability for the 1991 and 1992 tax years. In
    September 2004, Schering-Plough made payments to the IRS in the
    amount of $194 million for income taxes and
    $279 million for interest. The Company s tax reserves
    were adequate to cover these payments. Schering-Plough filed
    refund claims for the taxes and interest with the IRS in
    December 2004. Following the IRS s denial of
    Schering-Plough s claims for a refund, Schering-Plough
    filed suit in May 2005 in the U.S. District Court for the
    District of New Jersey for refund of the full amount of taxes
    and interest. A decision in favor of the government was
    announced in August 2009. The Company is appealing the decision
    of the District Court to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
    Third Circuit and the appeal is scheduled to be heard in March
    2011.

The IRS has finalized its examination of Schering-Plough s
     2003-2006 
    tax years. In this audit cycle the Company reached an agreement
    with the IRS on an adjustment to income related to intercompany
    pricing matters. This income adjustment mostly reduced NOLs and
    other tax credit carryforwards. Additionally, the Company is
    seeking resolution of one issue raised during this examination
    through the IRS administrative appeals process. The
    Company s reserves for uncertain tax positions were
    adequate to cover all adjustments related to this examination
    period. The IRS began its examination of the
     2007-2009 
    tax years for the Company in 2010. The IRS s examination of
    Old Merck s
     2002-2005 
    federal income tax returns is ongoing and is expected to
    conclude within the next 12 months.

In addition, various state and foreign tax examinations are in
    progress. For most of its other significant tax jurisdictions
    (both U.S. state and foreign), the Company s income tax
    returns are open for examination for the period 2000 through
    2010.

At December 31, 2010, foreign earnings of
    $40.4 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary
    companies for reinvestment, therefore no provision has been made
    for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of
    such earnings. In addition, the Company has subsidiaries
    operating in Puerto Rico and Singapore under tax incentive
    grants that begin to expire in 2013.

The Company calculates earnings per share pursuant to the
    two-class method, which is an earnings allocation formula that
    determines earnings per share for common stock and participating
    securities according to dividends declared and participation
    rights in undistributed earnings. Under this method, all
    earnings (distributed and undistributed) are allocated to common
    shares and participating securities based on their respective
    rights to receive dividends. RSUs and certain PSUs granted
    before December 31, 2009 to certain management level
    employees (see Note 14) participate in dividends on
    the same basis as common shares and such dividends are
    nonforfeitable by the holder. As a result, these RSUs and PSUs
    meet the definition of a participating security. For RSUs and
    PSUs issued on or after January 1, 2010, dividends declared
    during the vesting period are payable to the employees only upon
    vesting and therefore such RSUs and PSUs do not meet the
    definition of a participating security.

151

The calculations of earnings per share under the two-class
    method are as follows:

(1)    

Issuable primarily under
    share-based compensation plans.   

In 2010, 2009 and 2008, 174 million, 228 million and
    201 million, respectively, of common shares issuable under
    share-based compensation plans were excluded from the
    computation of earnings per common share assuming dilution
    because the effect would have been antidilutive.

152

19.    

Comprehensive
    Income  

The components of  Other comprehensive income (loss)  are
    as follows:

153

The components of  Accumulated other comprehensive loss
     are as follows:

Included in the cumulative translation adjustment are pretax
    gains of $277 million in 2010 and $78 million for the
    post-Merger period in 2009 from euro-denominated notes which
    have been designated as, and are effective as, economic hedges
    of the net investment in a foreign operation.

The Company s operations are principally managed on a
    products basis and are comprised of four operating
    segments   Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Consumer
    Care and Alliances (which includes revenue and equity income
    from the Company s relationship with AZLP). The Animal
    Health, Consumer Care and Alliances segments are not material
    for separate reporting and are included in all other in the
    table below. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health
    pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by
    the Company or through joint ventures. Human health
    pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive
    agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of
    human disorders. The Company sells these human health
    pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and
    retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health
    care providers such as health maintenance organizations,
    pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine
    products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult
    vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The
    Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to
    physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government
    entities. A large component of pediatric and adolescent vaccines
    is sold to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
    Prevention Vaccines for Children program, which is funded by the
    U.S. government. The Company also has animal health
    operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal
    health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to
    veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Additionally,
    the Company has consumer care operations that develop,
    manufacture and market
     over-the-counter, 
    foot care and sun care products, which are sold through
    wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser
    outlets in the United States and Canada.

154

The accounting policies for the segments described above are the
    same as those described in Note 2. Revenues and profits for
    these segments are as follows:

Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less certain
    elements of materials and production costs and operating
    expenses, including components of equity income or loss from
    affiliates and depreciation and amortization expenses. For
    internal management reporting presented to the chief operating
    decision maker, Merck does not allocate production costs, other
    than standard costs, research and development expenses or
    general and administrative expenses, nor the cost of financing
    these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for
    monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation
    related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and,
    therefore, they are not included in segment profits.

155

Sales   (1)   

    of the Company s products were as follows:

(1)    

Sales of legacy Schering-Plough
    products reflect results for 2010 and the post-Merger period in
    2009. In addition, prior to the Merger, substantially all sales
    of    Zetia  and
     Vytorin  were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the
    results of Old Merck s interest in the MSP Partnership were
    recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the
    Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly-owned by the Company;
    accordingly, all sales of MSP Partnership products after the
    Merger are reflected in the table above. Sales of  Zetia
     and  Vytorin  in 2008 reflect Old Merck s sales of
    these products in Latin America which was not part of the MSP
    Partnership. 

(2)    

These amounts do not reflect
    sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through
    the Company s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the
    results of which are reflected
    in    Equity income from
    affiliates . These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales
    to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. 

(3)    

Other pharmaceutical primarily
    reflects sales of other human pharmaceutical products, including
    products within the franchises not listed separately.   

(4)    

Reflects other non-reportable
    segments, including Animal Health and Consumer Care, and revenue
    from the Company s relationship with AZLP primarily
    relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. Revenue from
    AZLP was $1.3 billion, $1.4 billion and
    $1.6 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.   

(5)    

Other revenues are primarily
    comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, third-party
    manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or
    businesses and other supply sales not included in segment
    results.   

156

Consolidated revenues by geographic area where derived are as
    follows:

A reconciliation of total segment profits to consolidated
     Income before taxes  is as follows:

Other profits (losses) are primarily comprised of miscellaneous
    corporate profits (losses), as well as operating profits
    (losses) related to third-party manufacturing sales, divested
    products or businesses and other supply sales. Adjustments
    represent the elimination of the effect of double counting
    certain items of income and expense. Equity income from
    affiliates includes taxes paid at the joint venture level and a
    portion of equity income that is not reported in segment
    profits. Other expenses, net, include expenses from corporate
    and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income
    (expense), net.

Property, plant and equipment, net by geographic area where
    located is as follows:

The Company does not disaggregate assets on a products and
    services basis for internal management reporting and, therefore,
    such information is not presented.

157

Report
    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Merck  
    Co., Inc.:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
    the related consolidated statements of income, equity and cash
    flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
    position of Merck   Co., Inc. and its subsidiaries at
    December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, and the
    results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
    three years in the period ended December 31, 2010 in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America. Also in our opinion, Merck maintained,
    in all material respects, effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on
    criteria established in  Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Merck s
    management is responsible for these financial statements, for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting, included in Management s Report
    under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on
    these financial statements and on Merck s internal control
    over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We
    conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement and whether effective internal
    control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
    presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
    reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
    control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
    material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
    assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
    procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
    believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
    opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Florham Park, New Jersey

February 25, 2011

158

(b)    

Supplementary
    Data  

Selected quarterly financial data for 2010 and 2009 are
    contained in the Condensed Interim Financial Data table below.

Condensed
    Interim Financial Data (Unaudited)  

(1)   

Amounts for 2010 include in-process research and development
    impairment charges. Amounts for 2009 include a gain on the fair
    value adjustment to Merck s previously held interest in the
    MSP Partnership (see Note 3).  

(2)   

Amounts for 2010 include the impact of the  Vioxx
     Liability Reserve (see Note 12).  

(3)   

Amounts for 2009 include a gain on the sale of Old
    Merck s interest in Merial Limited (see Note 10).  

(4)   

Amounts for 2010 reflect the impact of the gain on
    AstraZeneca s exercise of the asset option (see
    Note 10).  

(5)   

Amounts for 2010 and 2009 reflect the impacts of the Merger,
    including the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments
    (see Note 3). Amounts for 2010 and 2009 also include the
    impact of restructuring actions (see Note 4).  

159

Item 9.    

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure.  

Not applicable.

Item 9A.    

Controls
    and Procedures.  

Management of the Company, with the participation of its Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the
    effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and
    procedures. Based on their evaluation, as of the end of the
    period covered by this
     Form 10-K, 
    the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer have concluded that the Company s disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    or  15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
     Act )) are effective.

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term
    is defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    of the Act. Management conducted an evaluation of the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based
    on the framework in Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission ( COSO ). Based on this
    evaluation, management concluded that internal control over
    financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010.
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, has performed its own assessment of the
    effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting and its attestation report is included in
    this
     Form 10-K 
    filing.

As the Company has previously disclosed, it is in the process of
    a multi-year implementation of an enterprise-wide resource
    planning system. It successfully completed the legacy Merck
    U.S. deployment in the second quarter of 2010. In response
    to business integration activities, the Company has and will
    continue to further align and streamline the design and
    operation of the financial control environment to be responsive
    to the changing business model and its needs. These actions
    include the adoption of a revised implementation plan for the
    enterprise-wide resource planning system which includes the
    expected deployment of the system in Canada and several major
    European markets in early 2011.

Management s
    Report   

Management s
    Responsibility for Financial Statements  

Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the
    Company s financial statements rests with management. The
    financial statements report on management s stewardship of
    Company assets. These statements are prepared in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles and, accordingly,
    include amounts that are based on management s best
    estimates and judgments. Nonfinancial information included in
    the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    has also been prepared by management and is consistent with the
    financial statements.

To assure that financial information is reliable and assets are
    safeguarded, management maintains an effective system of
    internal controls and procedures, important elements of which
    include: careful selection, training and development of
    operating and financial managers; an organization that provides
    appropriate division of responsibility; and communications aimed
    at assuring that Company policies and procedures are understood
    throughout the organization. A staff of internal auditors
    regularly monitors the adequacy and application of internal
    controls on a worldwide basis.

To ensure that personnel continue to understand the system of
    internal controls and procedures, and policies concerning good
    and prudent business practices, the Company periodically
    conducts the Management s Stewardship Program for key
    management and financial personnel. This program reinforces the
    importance and understanding of internal controls by reviewing
    key corporate policies, procedures and systems. In addition, the
    Company has compliance programs, including an ethical business
    practices program to reinforce the Company s long-standing
    commitment to high ethical standards in the conduct of its
    business.

The financial statements and other financial information
    included in the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    fairly present, in all material respects, the Company s
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our
    formal certification to the Securities and Exchange Commission
    is included in this
     Form 10-K 
    filing.

160

Management s
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term
    is defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s
    internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles in the United States of America.
    Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
    internal control over financial reporting based on the framework
    in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework 
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management
    concluded that internal control over financial reporting was
    effective as of December 31, 2010.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
    are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
    because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
    compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, has been
    audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears
    herein.

Kenneth C. Frazier  
     President and 
     Chief Executive Officer 

Peter N. Kellogg  
     Executive Vice President 
    and Chief Financial Officer 

Item 9B.    

Other
    Information.  

None.

161

PART III  

Item 10.    

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.  

The required information on directors and nominees is
    incorporated by reference from the discussion under Item 1.
    Election of Directors of the Company s Proxy Statement for
    the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2011.
    Information on executive officers is set forth in Part I of
    this document on pages 38 through 41.

The required information on compliance with Section 16(a)
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by
    reference from the discussion under the heading
     Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  of the Company s Proxy Statement for the
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2011.

The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct    Our
    Values and Standards  applicable to all employees, including
    the principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
    and principal accounting officer. The Code of Conduct is
    available on the Company s website at
      www.merck.com/about/code_of_conduct.pdf  . The
    Company intends to post on this website any amendments to, or
    waivers from, its Code of Conduct. A printed copy will be sent,
    without charge, to any shareholder who requests it by writing to
    the Chief Ethics Officer of Merck   Co., Inc., One
    Merck Drive, Whitehouse Station, NJ
     08889-0100. 

The required information on the identification of the audit
    committee and the audit committee financial expert is
    incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading
     Board Committees  of the Company s Proxy
    Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
    May 24, 2011.

Item 11.    

Executive
    Compensation.  

The information required on executive compensation is
    incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings
     Compensation Discussion and Analysis ,  Summary
    Compensation Table ,  All Other Compensation 
    table,  Grants of Plan-Based Awards  table,
     Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End  table,
     Option Exercises and Stock Vested  table, Retirement
    Plan Benefits and related  Pension Benefits  table,
    Nonqualified Deferred Compensation and related tables, Potential
    Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control, including the
    discussion under the subheadings  Separation ,
     Individual Agreements ,  Change in Control 
    and  Separation Plan Payment, Change in Control Payment and
    Benefit Estimates  table, as well as all footnote
    information to the various tables, of the Company s Proxy
    Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
    May 24, 2011.

The required information on director compensation is
    incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading
     Director Compensation  and related  Director
    Compensation  table and  Schedule of Director
    Fees  table of the Company s Proxy Statement for the
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2011.

The required information under the headings  Compensation
    Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and
     Compensation and Benefits Committee Report  is
    incorporated by reference from the Company s Proxy
    Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
    May 24, 2011.

Item 12.    

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters.  

Information with respect to securities authorized for issuance
    under equity compensation plans is set forth in Part II of
    this document on page 43. Information with respect to
    security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management
    is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the
    heading  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management  of the Company s Proxy Statement for
    the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2011.

Item 13.    

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence.  

The required information on transactions with related persons is
    incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading
     Related Person Transactions  of the Company s
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
    held May 24, 2011.

162

The required information on director independence is
    incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading
     Independence of Directors  of the Company s
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
    held May 24, 2011.

Item 14.    

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services.  

The information required for this item is incorporated by
    reference from the discussion under  Audit Committee 
    beginning with the caption  Pre-Approval Policy for
    Services of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    through  All Other Fees  of the Company s Proxy
    Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
    May 24, 2011.

PART IV  

Item 15.    

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules.  

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this
     Form 10-K 

1.  

Financial Statements 

Consolidated statement of income for the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008

Consolidated balance sheet as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009

Consolidated statement of equity for the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008

Consolidated statement of cash flows for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
    independent registered public accounting firm

2.  

Financial Statement Schedules 

Schedules are omitted because they are either not required or
    not applicable.

Financial statements of affiliates carried on the equity basis
    have been omitted because, considered individually or in the
    aggregate, such affiliates do not constitute a significant
    subsidiary.

163

164

165

166

167

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

10

.52

KBI Shares Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and
    among Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc. and Merck Holdings,
    Inc.   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.53

KBI-E Asset Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and
    among Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc. and
    Astra Merck Enterprises Inc.   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report
    for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.54

KBI Supply Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra
    Merck Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of
    this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment
    filed with the Commission).   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
    period ended June 30, 1998

10

.55

Second Amended and Restated Manufacturing Agreement dated as of
    July 1, 1998 among Merck   Co., Inc., Astra AB, Astra Merck
    Inc. and Astra USA, Inc.   Incorporated by reference
    to Old Merck s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
    period ended June 30, 1998

10

.56

Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between
    KB USA, L.P. and KBI Sub Inc.   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
    period ended June 30, 1998

10

.57

Distribution Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra
    Merck Enterprises Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals,
    L.P.   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.58

Agreement to Incorporate Defined Terms dated as of June 19, 1998
    between Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc.,
    Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises Inc., KBI
    Sub Inc., Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals,
    L.P.   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.59

Master Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and among
    MSP Technology (U.S.) Company LLC, MSP Singapore Company, LLC,
    Schering Corporation, Schering-Plough Corporation, and Merck
      Co., Inc. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a
    request for confidential treatment filed with the
    Commission)   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended
    June 30, 2008

10

.60

Form of Voting Agreement made and entered into as of October 30,
    2006 by and between Merck   Co., Inc. and Sirna
    Therapeutics, Inc.   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 30, 2006

10

.61

Settlement Agreement, dated November 9, 2007, by and between
    Merck   Co., Inc. and The Counsel Listed on the Signature
    Pages Hereto, including the exhibits thereto  
    Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s Current Report on
    Form 8-K dated November 9, 2007

10

.62

Commitment Letter by and among Merck   Co., Inc.,
    J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
    dated as of March 8, 2009   Incorporated by reference
    to Old Merck s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 8,
    2009

10

.63

Stock option terms for a non-qualified stock option under the
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. 2007 Incentive Stock Plan and the
    Schering-Plough 2006 Stock Incentive Plan  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Merck   Co.,
    Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 15, 2010

10

.64

Restricted stock unit terms for annual grant under the Merck
    Sharp   Dohme Corp. 2007 Incentive Stock Plan and the
    Schering-Plough 2006 Stock Incentive Plan  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Merck   Co.,
    Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 15, 2010

10

.65

Restricted stock unit terms for Leader Shares grant under the
    Merck   Co., Inc. 2007 Incentive Stock Plan  
    Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s Form 10-Q
    Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 2009

10

.66

Incremental Credit Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party
    thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
    Agent   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 6, 2009

10

.67

Asset Sale Facility Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party
    thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
    Agent   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 6, 2009

168

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

10

.68

Bridge Loan Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among Merck
      Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party thereto, and
    JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent  
    Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s Current Report on
    Form 8-K dated May 6, 2009

10

.69

Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit
    Agreement dated as of April 20, 2009 among Merck   Co.,
    Inc., the Lenders party thereto and Citicorp USA, Inc., as
    Administrative Agent   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on
    Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009

10

.70

Guarantee and Joinder Agreement dated as of November 3, 2009 by
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantor, for the benefit of the
    Guaranteed Parties   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.3 to Merck   Co., Inc. s
    Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009

10

.71

Guarantor Joinder Agreement dated as of November 3, 2009, by
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantor and JPMorgan Chase Bank,
    N.A., as Administrative Agent   Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Merck   Co., Inc. s
    Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009

10

.72

Call Option Agreement, dated July 29, 2009, by and among Merck
      Co., Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation and
    sanofi-aventis   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2009

10

.73

Termination Agreement, dated as of September 17, 2009, by and
    among Merck   Co., Inc., Merck SH Inc., Merck Sharp  
    Dohme (Holdings) Limited, sanofi-aventis, sanofi 4 and Merial
    Limited   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 21, 2009

10

.74

Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated as of May 22, 2000, by
    and among Schering-Plough, Merck   Co., Inc. and the other
    parties signatory thereto   Incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 99.2 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on Form
    8-K dated October 21, 2002 

10

.75

First Amendment to the Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated
    as of December 18, 2001, by and among Schering-Plough, Merck
      Co., Inc. and the other parties signatory
    thereto   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to
    Schering-Plough s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October
    21, 2002 

10

.76

Master Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and among
    Schering-Plough, Merck   Co., Inc. and the other parties
    signatory thereto   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.4 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on Form
    8-K filed October 21, 2002 

10

.77

Letter Agreement dated April 14, 2003 relating to Consent
    Decree   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to
    Schering-Plough s 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2003

10

.78

Distribution agreement between Schering-Plough and Centocor,
    Inc., dated April 3, 1998   Incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10(u) to Schering-Plough s Amended 10-K for the
    year ended December 31, 2003, filed May 3, 2004 

10

.79

Amendment Agreement to the Distribution Agreement between
    Centocor, Inc., CAN Development, LLC, and Schering-Plough
    (Ireland) Company   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on Form
    8-K filed December 21, 2007 

12

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

21

Subsidiaries of Merck   Co., Inc.

23

.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm   Contained on page 172 of this Report

31

.1

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer

31

.2

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer

32

.1

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer

32

.2

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer

101

The following materials from Merck   Co., Inc. s
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
    31, 2010, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting
    Language):(i) the Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) the
    Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iii) the Consolidated Statement of
    Cash Flow, and (iv) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

*    

Management contract or
    compensatory plan or arrangement.   

Certain portions of the exhibit
    have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential
    treatment. The non-public information has been filed separately
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
     rule 24b-2 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   

169

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

Dated: February 28, 2011

MERCK   CO., INC.

By:  

/s/  Kenneth
    C. Frazier

Kenneth C. Frazier

President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Signatures 

Title 

Date 

/s/  Kenneth
    C. Frazier

Kenneth
    C. Frazier

President and Chief Executive Officer; 
      Principal Executive Officer; Director

February 28, 2011

/s/  Peter
    N. Kellogg

Peter
    N. Kellogg

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 
      Officer; Principal Financial Officer

February 28, 2011

/s/  John
    Canan

John
    Canan

Senior Vice President and Global Controller; 
      Principal Accounting Officer

February 28, 2011

/s/  Richard
    T. Clark

Richard
    T. Clark

Chairman; Director

February 28, 2011

/s/  Leslie
    A. Brun

Leslie
    A. Brun

Director

February 28, 2011

/s/  Thomas
    R. Cech

Thomas
    R. Cech

Director

February 28, 2011

/s/  Thomas
    H. Glocer

Thomas
    H. Glocer

Director

February 28, 2011

/s/  Steven
    F. Goldstone

Steven
    F. Goldstone

Director

February 28, 2011

/s/  William
    B. Harrison, Jr.

William
    B. Harrison, Jr.

Director

February 28, 2011

/s/  Harry
    R. Jacobson

Harry
    R. Jacobson

Director

February 28, 2011

/s/  William
    N. Kelley

William
    N. Kelley

Director

February 28, 2011

170

171

Exhibit 23.1  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
    Registration Statements on
     Form S-3 
    (Nos.
     333-164482, 
     333-163858 
    and
     333-163546) 
    and on
     Form S-8 
    (Nos.
     333-162882, 
     333-162883, 
     333-162884, 
     333-162885, 
     333-162886, 
     033-57111, 
     333-112421, 
     333-134281, 
     333-121089, 
     333-30331, 
     333-87077, 
     333-153542, 
     333-162007, 
     333-91440 
    and
     333-105567) 
    of Merck   Co., Inc. of our report dated
    February 25, 2011 relating to the financial statements and
    the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
    which appears in this
     Form 10-K. 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Florham Park, New Jersey

February 25, 2011

172

EXHIBIT INDEX  

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

*10

.36

Amendment to Employment Agreement between Schering-Plough
    Corporation and Thomas P. Koestler, dated December 9,
    2008   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to
    Schering-Plough s 8-K filed December 12, 2008

*10

.37

Form of employment agreement effective upon a change of control
    between Schering-Plough and certain executives for new
    agreements beginning in January 1, 2008   Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(xv) to Schering-Plough s 10-K
    for the year ended December 31, 2008

*10

.38

Operations Management Team Incentive Plan (as amended and
    restated effective June 26, 2006)   Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10(m)(ii) to Schering-Plough s 10-Q
    for the period ended September 30, 2006

*10

.39

Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective
    January 24, 2005)   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10(n) to Schering-Plough s 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 2004

*10

.40

Long-Term Performance Share Unit Incentive Plan (as amended and
    restated effective January 24, 2005)   Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10(o) to Schering-Plough s 10-K for
    the year ended December 31, 2004

*10

.41

Transformational Performance Contingent Shares
    Program   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10(p) to Schering-Plough s 10-K for the year
    ended December 31, 2003

*10

.42

Schering-Plough Corporation Severance Benefit Plan (as amended
    and restated effective November 3, 2009)  
    Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co., Inc. s Form
    10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31,
    2009

*10

.43

Schering-Plough Corporation Savings Advantage Plan (as amended
    and restated effective November 4, 2009)  
    Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co., Inc. s Form
    10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31,
    2009

*10

.44

Schering-Plough Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement
    Plan (as amended and restated effective November 4,
    2009)   Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co.,
    Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2009

*10

.45

Schering-Plough Retirement Benefits Equalization Plan (as
    amended and restated effective November 4, 2009)  
    Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co., Inc. s Form
    10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31,
    2009

*10

.46

Executive Incentive Plan (as amended and restated to October 1,
    2000)   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(i)
    to Schering-Plough s 10-K for the year ended December 31,
    2000

*10

.47

Schering-Plough Corporation Executive Life Insurance Direct
    Payment Program (as amended and restated effective November 4,
    2009)   Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co.,
    Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2009

*10

.48

Amended and Restated Defined Contribution Trust  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to
    Schering-Plough s 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000

*10

.49

Amended and Restated SERP Rabbi Trust Agreement  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to
    Schering-Plough s 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998

10

.50

Share Purchase Agreement between Akzo Nobel N.V.,
    Schering-Plough International C.V., and Schering-Plough
    Corporation   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.1 to Schering-Plough s 8-K filed October 2, 2007

10

.51

Amended and Restated License and Option Agreement dated as of
    July 1, 1998 between Astra AB and Astra Merck Inc.  
    Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s Form 10-Q
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.52

KBI Shares Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and
    among Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc. and Merck Holdings,
    Inc.   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.53

KBI-E Asset Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and
    among Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc. and
    Astra Merck Enterprises Inc.   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report
    for the period ended June 30, 1998

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

10

.54

KBI Supply Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra
    Merck Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this
    Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment
    filed with the Commission).   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
    period ended June 30, 1998

10

.55

Second Amended and Restated Manufacturing Agreement dated as of
    July 1, 1998 among Merck   Co., Inc., Astra AB, Astra Merck
    Inc. and Astra USA, Inc.   Incorporated by reference
    to Old Merck s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period
    ended June 30, 1998

10

.56

Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between
    KB USA, L.P. and KBI Sub Inc.   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
    period ended June 30, 1998

10

.57

Distribution Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra
    Merck Enterprises Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals,
    L.P.   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.58

Agreement to Incorporate Defined Terms dated as of June 19, 1998
    between Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc.,
    Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises Inc., KBI
    Sub Inc., Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals,
    L.P.   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.59

Master Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and among
    MSP Technology (U.S.) Company LLC, MSP Singapore Company, LLC,
    Schering Corporation, Schering-Plough Corporation, and Merck
      Co., Inc. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a
    request for confidential treatment filed with the
    Commission)   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended
    June 30, 2008

10

.60

Form of Voting Agreement made and entered into as of October 30,
    2006 by and between Merck   Co., Inc. and Sirna
    Therapeutics, Inc.   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 30, 2006

10

.61

Settlement Agreement, dated November 9, 2007, by and between
    Merck   Co., Inc. and The Counsel Listed on the Signature
    Pages Hereto, including the exhibits thereto  
    Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s Current Report on
    Form 8-K dated November 9, 2007

10

.62

Commitment Letter by and among Merck   Co., Inc.,
    J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
    dated as of March 8, 2009   Incorporated by reference
    to Old Merck s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 8,
    2009

10

.63

Stock option terms for a non-qualified stock option under the
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. 2007 Incentive Stock Plan and the
    Schering-Plough 2006 Stock Incentive Plan  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Merck   Co.,
    Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 15, 2010

10

.64

Restricted stock unit terms for annual grant under the Merck
    Sharp   Dohme Corp. 2007 Incentive Stock Plan and the
    Schering-Plough 2006 Stock Incentive Plan  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Merck   Co.,
    Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 15, 2010

10

.65

Restricted stock unit terms for Leader Shares grant under the
    Merck   Co., Inc. 2007 Incentive Stock Plan  
    Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s Form 10-Q
    Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 2009

10

.66

Incremental Credit Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party
    thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
    Agent   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 6, 2009

10

.67

Asset Sale Facility Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party
    thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
    Agent   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 6, 2009

10

.68

Bridge Loan Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among Merck
      Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party thereto, and
    JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent  
    Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s Current Report on
    Form 8-K dated May 6, 2009

10

.69

Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit
    Agreement dated as of April 20, 2009 among Merck   Co.,
    Inc., the Lenders party thereto and Citicorp USA, Inc., as
    Administrative Agent   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on
    Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

10

.70

Guarantee and Joinder Agreement dated as of November 3, 2009 by
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantor, for the benefit of the
    Guaranteed Parties   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.3 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on
    Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009

10

.71

Guarantor Joinder Agreement dated as of November 3, 2009, by
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantor and JPMorgan Chase Bank,
    N.A., as Administrative Agent   Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Merck   Co., Inc. s
    Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009

10

.72

Call Option Agreement, dated July 29, 2009, by and among Merck
      Co., Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation and
    sanofi-aventis   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2009

10

.73

Termination Agreement, dated as of September 17, 2009, by and
    among Merck   Co., Inc., Merck SH Inc., Merck Sharp  
    Dohme (Holdings) Limited, sanofi-aventis, sanofi 4 and Merial
    Limited   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 21, 2009

10

.74

Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated as of May 22, 2000, by
    and among Schering-Plough, Merck   Co., Inc. and the other
    parties signatory thereto   Incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 99.2 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on Form
    8-K dated October 21, 2002 

10

.75

First Amendment to the Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated
    as of December 18, 2001, by and among Schering-Plough, Merck
      Co., Inc. and the other parties signatory
    thereto   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to
    Schering-Plough s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October
    21, 2002 

10

.76

Master Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and among
    Schering-Plough, Merck   Co., Inc. and the other parties
    signatory thereto   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.4 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on Form
    8-K filed October 21, 2002 

10

.77

Letter Agreement dated April 14, 2003 relating to Consent
    Decree   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to
    Schering-Plough s 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2003

10

.78

Distribution agreement between Schering-Plough and Centocor,
    Inc., dated April 3, 1998   Incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10(u) to Schering-Plough s Amended 10-K for the
    year ended December 31, 2003, filed May 3, 2004 

10

.79

Amendment Agreement to the Distribution Agreement between
    Centocor, Inc., CAN Development, LLC, and Schering-Plough
    (Ireland) Company   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on Form
    8-K filed December 21, 2007 

12

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

21

Subsidiaries of Merck   Co., Inc.

23

.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm   Contained on page 172 of this Report

31

.1

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer

31

.2

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer

32

.1

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer

32

.2

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer

101

The following materials from Merck   Co., Inc. s
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
    31, 2010, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting
    Language):(i) the Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) the
    Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iii) the Consolidated Statement of
    Cash Flow, and (iv) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

*    

Management contract or
    compensatory plan or arrangement.   

Certain portions of the exhibit
    have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential
    treatment. The non-public information has been filed separately
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
     rule 24b-2 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   

<EX-10.10>
 2
 y87773exv10w10.htm
 EX-10.10

exv10w10 

EXHIBIT 10.10 

MSD SEPARATION BENEFITS PLAN 

FOR NONUNION EMPLOYEES 

Amended and Restated Effective as of October 1, 2010

Revised as of October 1, 2010

MSD 
SEPARATION BENEFITS PLAN FOR NONUNION EMPLOYEES 
Amended and Restated Effective as of October 1, 2010 

SECTION I 

PURPOSE 

The purpose of this MSD Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees (the  Plan ) is to provide
benefits to eligible nonunion employees whose employment with the Employer is terminated at the
initiative of the Employer for reasons described below. This Plan is part of the MSD Separation
Allowance Plan (Plan No. 514).

SECTION 2 

DEFINITIONS 

For the purposes of this Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

2.1  Adjusted Base Pay Rate   means for an Eligible Employee who is

(a) exempt, his/her Base Pay Rate adjusted to its full-time equivalent and then
multiplied by the percent of full-time (up to 100%) applicable to the alternate
position offered; and

(b) non-exempt, his/her Base Pay Rate adjusted to an hourly rate by dividing it by
the number of hours regularly scheduled to work in the current position.

2.2  Annual Base Salary   means the Covered Employee s annualized base salary according to
the Employer s payroll records in effect as of the date the Covered Employee incurs a
Separation From Service, without reduction for any pre-tax contributions to MSD-sponsored
benefit plans. For a Covered Employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than
full-time, annual base salary is the reduced annual base salary applicable to the less than
full-time position. Annual Base Salary does not include bonuses, commissions, overtime
pay, shift pay, premium pay, cost of living allowances, income from stock options or other
incentives under an Incentive Stock Plan of the Employer (or the Parent or any of its
subsidiaries), stock grants or other incentives, or other pay not specifically included
above.

2.3  Base Pay Rate   means

(a) With respect to an Eligible Employee who is exempt, his/her annual base salary
according to the Employer s payroll records in effect as of the

1 

date the Eligible Employee is offered an alternate position in connection with an
organizational change or general reduction of the work force. For an Eligible
Employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than full-time, annual base salary
is the reduced annual base salary applicable to the less than full-time position.

(b) With respect to an Eligible Employee who is non-exempt, the hourly rate
according to the Employer s payroll records in effect as of the date the Eligible
Employee is offered an alternate position in connection with an organizational
change or general reduction of the work force multiplied by the number of hours the
Eligible Employee is regularly scheduled to work (up to a maximum of 2080 hours).

(c) With respect to an alternate position offered to an Eligible Employee in
connection with an organizational change or general reduction of the work force,

(i) For exempt positions, the annual base salary offered to the Eligible
Employee; if a less than full-time position is offered to the employee,
the reduced annual base salary applicable to the less than full-time
position offered; and

(ii) For non-exempt positions, the hourly rate actually offered to the
Eligible Employee multiplied by the number of regularly scheduled hours
applicable to the offered position (up to a maximum of 2080 hours).

Base Pay Rate is calculated without reduction for any pre-tax contributions to
MSD-sponsored benefit plans. Base Pay Rate  includes  applicable shift pay and
premium pay but does  not include  bonuses, commissions, overtime pay, cost of living
allowances, income from stock options or other incentives under an Incentive Stock
Plan of the Employer (or the Parent or its subsidiaries), stock grants or other
incentives, or other pay not specifically included above.

2.4  Basic Life Insurance   means prior to January 1, 2011, the employee group term
life insurance coverage in effect for a Covered Employee on the date he/she incurs a
Separation From Service as follows:

(a) 
       
     if on that date the Covered Employee has  New Format 
coverage (as described in the applicable Merck life insurance plan as it may
be amended from time to time): the amount equal to 1x base pay; or 

(b) 
       
     if on that date the Covered Employee has  Old Format 
coverage (as described in the applicable Merck life insurance plan as it may
be amended from time to time): the amount equal to 2x base pay. 

Effective January 1, 2011,  Basic Life Insurance  means 1x base pay. For Eligible
Employees covered by  Old Format  coverage with a Separation Date

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

2 

before January 1, 2011, effective as of January 1, 2011,  Basic Life Insurance  is reduced
to 1x base pay.

2.5  Casual Employee   means a person who may be called by the Employer at any time for
employment in the U.S. on a non-scheduled and non-recurring basis, and who becomes an
employee of the Employer only after reporting to work for the period of time during which
the person is working and who is not an Excluded Person.

2.6  Change in Control   shall have the meaning set forth in the CIC Plan (and, for
avoidance of doubt, a valid amendment of that definition under the CIC Plan shall
constitute an amendment of this Plan without further action); provided, however that until
November 3, 2010 a  Change in Control  shall include both a  Change in Control  with
respect to Parent and an  MSD Change in Control  with respect to MSD as both such terms are
defined in the CIC Plan.

2.7  CIC Plan   means the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan, as
amended and restated effective November 3, 2009 and as it may be further amended from time
to time.

2.8  Claims Reviewer   means the Vice President, Human Resources of the Employer (or the
Parent or its subsidiaries), most directly responsible for MSD s employee benefit plans or
his or her delegate; provided however, for Section 16 Officers, Claims Reviewer means the
Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Parent or its
delegate.

2.09  Complete Year of Continuous Service   means a year from the Covered Employee s Most
Recent Hire Date to its anniversary, and thereafter from each anniversary to the next.

2.10  Continuous Service   means the period of a Covered Employee s continuous employment
with the Employer commencing on the Covered Employee s Most Recent Hire Date and ending on
the Separation Date as reflected on the Employer s employee database.

2.11  Covered Employee   means an Eligible Employee who has experienced a Separation From
Service and who has signed   and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoked   a
Release of Claims in a form that is satisfactory to the Employer in its sole and absolute
discretion.

2.12  Intentionally Omitted

2.13  Eligible Employee   means an employee of the Employer who:

(a) 
       
     is (i) a Regular Full-Time Nonunion Employee or Regular
Part-Time Nonunion Employee, exempt or non-exempt, on the Employer s normal
U.S. payroll, or (ii) a U.S. Expatriate on the Employer s normal U.S. payroll;
and 

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

3 

(b) 
       
     is not otherwise excluded under this paragraph.  Eligible
Employee  excludes a person who: 

1. 
       
     is a participant in the CIC Plan (but this clause 1
shall only apply during the Protection Period (as defined in Section
6.8)); or 

2. 
       
     is a party to an employment agreement with the Employer
or with Parent (or any of its subsidiaries) ; or 

3. 
       
     is entitled, upon termination of employment with the
Employer, to separation, severance, termination or other similar payments
(i) under another plan or program sponsored by the Employer or Parent (or
any of its subsidiaries); or (ii) pursuant to a separate agreement with
the Employer or Parent (or any of its subsidiaries) that provides for
payments or benefits in connection with the termination of the employee s
employment; or 

4. 
       
     is a party to an agreement with the Employer or
Parent (or any of its subsidiaries) that provides that no payment or
benefits are due to the employee in connection with his/her termination of
employment, 

in each case for clauses 2, 3 and 4 above, unless the other plan, program or
agreement expressly provides that the employee is eligible to participate in
this Plan; 

Whether an individual is an Eligible Employee or not is determined as of the date of
his/her Separation From Service.

2.14  Employee Benefits Committee   means the committee established by MSD (or the Parent)
to review claims and appeals under certain employee benefit plans sponsored by MSD;
provided, however, for Section 16 Officers, Employee Benefits Committee means the
Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of Parent or its delegate.

2.15  Employer   means individually and collectively, Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. and the
subsidiaries of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. listed on Schedule A attached hereto.

2.16  ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the
regulations promulgated thereunder.

2.17  Excluded Employee   means collectively, (i) Temporary Employees, (ii) Casual
Employees, (iii) Intern/Graduate/Cooperative Associate, (iv) employees of a non-US
subsidiary of MSD (or who are dual employees of a non-US subsidiary of MSD and the
Employer) who are on assignment in the US, (v) employees whose employment ends for any
reason while on unapproved leaves of absence, (vi) employees whose employment ends for any
reason while on approved leaves of absence for a period equal to or more than 6 continuous
months regardless of the reason(s) for the leave (other than military leave or family
medical leave

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

4 

under federal or state family medical leave laws) and (vii) employees of MSD who are
subject to a collective bargaining agreement. A series of leaves of absence is considered
one continuous leave for purposes of calculating the 6-month requirement if the employee
does not return to active employment for any reason, including but not limited to because
the employee s former position is unavailable and the employee is unable to secure a new
position.

2.18  Excluded Person   means a person who is an independent contractor, or agrees or has
agreed that he/she is an independent contractor, or has any agreement or understanding with
the Employer, or any of its affiliates that he/she is not an employee or an Eligible
Employee, or is employed by a temporary or other employment agency, regardless of the
amount of control, supervision or training provided by the Employer or its affiliates, or
he/she is a  leased employee  as defined under Section 414(n) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended. An Excluded Person is not eligible to participate in the Separation
Benefits Plan even if a court, agency or other authority rules that he/she is a common-law
employee of the Employer or its affiliates.

2.19  Intern/Graduate/Cooperative Associate   means a student hired by MSD as a participant
in the MSD Intern/Graduate/Cooperative Associate Program. The student must be designated
as a participant in that program at least annually by the Director of University Relations.

2.20  MSD   means Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

2.21  Most Recent Hire Date   means an Eligible Employee s most recent hire date as
reflected on the Employer s employee data system.

2.22  Outplacement Benefits   means benefits for outplacement counseling or other
outplacement services made available to a Covered Employee who incurs a Separation From
Service and who signs, and if a revocation period is applicable, does not revoke a Release
of Claims.

2.23  Parent   means Merck   Co., Inc. ultimate parent of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

2.24  Plan   means the MSD Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees as set forth
herein, and as may be amended from time to time.

2.25  Plan Administrator   means Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. or its delegate.

2.26  Plan Year   means the calendar year January 1 through December 31 on which the records
of the Plan are kept.

2.27  Regular Full-Time Nonunion Employee   means an employee employed by the Employer in
the U.S. on a scheduled basis for a normal work week, who is not an Excluded Employee or an
Excluded Person.

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

5 

2.28  Regular Part-Time Nonunion Employee   means an employee employed by the Employer in
the U.S. who works on a scheduled basis of less than the number of regularly scheduled
hours for his or her site who is not an Excluded Employee or an Excluded Person.

2.29
 Release of Claims   means the agreement that a Covered Employee must execute in order to receive Separation Plan Benefits, which shall be prepared by MSD and
shall contain such terms and conditions as determined by MSD, including but not limited to
a general release of claims, known or unknown, that the Covered Employee may have against
the Employer (and the Parent and any of its subsidiaries and/or affiliates), including
claims related to the employment and termination of employment of the Covered Employee;
such Release of Claims may also contain, in MSD s discretion, non-solicitation and
non-competition provisions.

2.30  Section 16 Officer   means an  officer  as such term is defined in Rule 16(a)-1(f) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of the Parent who is also an Eligible Employee of the
Employer.

2.31  Separation Benefits   means the outplacement benefits provided pursuant to Section 4.2
and the continued medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance benefits provided pursuant to
Section 4.3.

2.32  Separation Date   means an Eligible Employee s last day of employment with the
Employer due to a Separation From Service.

2.33  Separation From Service   means the termination of an Eligible Employee s employment
as determined and caused by the Employer
 due to:

(a) organizational changes; or

(b) a general reduction of the workforce.

Organizational changes are determined by MSD and include discontinuance of operations,
location closings, corporate restructuring or job elimination but exclude a reduction in job
title, grade or band level, Base Pay Rate, short term incentive opportunity (e.g., cash
bonuses under any bonus plan or program of the MSD or the Parent including the Annual
Incentive Plan and Executive Incentive Plan of MSD or the Parent and sales incentive
compensation under any sales incentive plan or program of MSD or the Parent including the
Sales Incentive Plan(s)), long term incentive compensation opportunity, equity compensation
opportunity and/or other forms of remuneration of an Eligible Employee without a change in
the Eligible Employee s job duties where such reduction is due to a general change in the
Employer s or the Parent s compensation framework as it applies to similarly situated
Eligible Employees, e.g., a change in the general compensation framework applicable to
similar jobs with the Employer, or an identifiable segment of the Employer such as a
subsidiary, division or department.

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

6 

A Separation From Service  does not occur 

(i) if an Eligible Employee s employment is terminated by the Employer  other than  due to an
organizational change or a general reduction of the work force; or

(ii) if an Eligible Employee s employment is terminated by the Employer due to an
organizational change or a general reduction of the work force  and  any one of the following
occur:

1. 
       
     Upon a divestiture of a subsidiary, division or other
identifiable segment of the Employer where the Eligible Employee either 

a. 
       
     continues or is offered any employment with the
acquiring company and accepts such employment; or 

b. 
       
     is offered employment with the acquiring company
and declines it and such declined offer of employment is 

i. 
       
     on such terms and conditions
agreed to between the Employer (or its designate) and the
buyer, including but not limited to the job title, grade or
band level, short term incentive compensation opportunity
(e.g., cash bonus or sales incentive compensation), long term
incentive compensation opportunity, equity compensation
opportunity and/or level of base pay offered   and 

ii. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence at
the time of the divestiture; or 

2. 
       
     Due to the Employer s decision to outsource work to a third-party
vendor where the Eligible Employee either 

a. 
       
     continues or is offered any employment with the
outsource vendor and accepts such employment; or 

b. 
       
     is offered employment with such outsource vendor
and declines it and such declined offer of employment is 

i. 
       
     on such terms and conditions
agreed to between the Employer (or its designate) and the
outsource vendor, including but not limited to the job title,
grade or band level, short term incentive compensation
opportunity (e.g., cash bonus or sales incentive
compensation), long term incentive compensation opportunity,
equity compensation opportunity and/or level of base pay
offered   and 

ii. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence on
the date the Eligible Employee s employment with the Employer
ends; or 

3. 
       
     Upon the formation of a joint venture or other business entity in
which the Employer or the Parent directly or indirectly will own some
outstanding voting or other ownership interest where the Eligible Employee
either 

a. 
       
     continues or is offered any employment with the
joint venture or other business entity and accepts such employment; or 

b. 
       
     is offered employment with the joint venture or
other business entity and declines it and such declined offer of
employment is 

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

7 

i. 
       
     on such terms and conditions
agreed to between the Employer or the Parent (or its
designate) and the joint venture or other business entity,
including but not limited to the job title, grade or band
level, short term incentive compensation opportunity (e.g.,
cash bonus or sales incentive compensation), long term
incentive compensation opportunity, equity compensation
opportunity and/or level of base pay offered   and 

ii. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence at
the time of the formation of the joint venture; or 

4. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee s job with the Employer is moved to
another work location of the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries)
and the Eligible Employee either 

a. 
       
     decides to follow the job; or 

b. 
       
     decides not to follow the job and the job offered
and declined is 

i. 
       
     a work location that is less
than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence at the
time the job is moved; and 

ii. 
       
     at a Base Pay Rate equal to
at least 100% of the employee s Base Pay Rate;***; or 

5. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee is offered a position with the Employer
(or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries)** regardless of job title, grade or
band level, short term incentive compensation opportunity (e.g., cash bonus or
sales incentive compensation), long term incentive compensation opportunity
and/or equity compensation opportunity and either 

a. 
       
     accepts the position; or 

b. 
       
     declines it, provided the position offered and
declined is 

i. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence on
the date the position is offered; and 

ii. 
       
     at a Base Pay Rate equal to
at least 100% of the employee s Base Pay Rate;*** or 

6. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee resigns for any reason; or 

7. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee is terminated for cause; or 

8. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee retires (except where the retirement
results from the Employer s termination of the Eligible Employee s employment
due to an organizational change or a general reduction of the work force; or 

9. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee s employment is terminated due to failure
to return to work at the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) for
any reason, including, but not limited to the Eligible Employee s failure to
secure a position at the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries)
upon a return from a leave of absence for any reason; or 

10. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee terminates employment with the Employer
prior to the date identified as the date the employee would experience a
Separation From Service unless the Employer expressly agreed to waive this
provision; or 

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

8 

11. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee dies (unless the Eligible Employee dies
after he/she has been notified of his/her Separation Date but before the
Separation Date occurs and a valid release of claims is executed); or 

12. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee s part-time or job share arrangement is
terminated for any reason and the Eligible Employee is offered a position with
the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries),** including a full-time
position, and either 

a. 
       
     accepts it; or 

b. 
       
     declines it, provided the position offered and
declined is 

i. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence at
the time the part-time or job share arrangement is terminated;
and 

ii. 
       
     at a Base Pay Rate equal to
at least 100% of the employee s Base Pay Rate;*** or 

13. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee s flexible work arrangement (e.g.,
flexible hours, flexible workplace, work-at-home, compressed work-week,
non-standard work hours, etc.) is terminated for any reason and the Eligible
Employee is offered a position with the Employer (or the Parent or any of its
subsidiaries),** including a position having an Employer-standard work
arrangement or a flexible work arrangement, and either 

a. 
       
     accepts it; or 

b. 
       
     declines it, provided the position offered and
declined is 

i. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence at
the time the flexible work arrangement is terminated (or for
employees with a flexible workplace or work-at-home
arrangement, at the work location where the position was
assigned on the Employer s data base); and 

ii. 
       
     at a Base Pay Rate equal to
at least 100% of the employee s Base Pay Rate;*** or 

14. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee is a shift worker and is offered a
position with the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries),**
including a position on a different shift, and either 

a. 
       
     accepts it; or 

b. 
       
     declines it, provided the position offered and
declined is 

i. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence at
the time the offer is made; and 

ii. 
       
     at a Base Pay Rate equal to
at least 100% of the employee s Base Pay Rate.*** 

A Separation From Service does not occur under subsections (a) of each of sections 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 12, 13 and 14 above if the Eligible Employee accepts the offered (or transferred)
position but later declines it.

* 
       
     Whether a work location is less than 50 miles farther from an employee s residence
will be determined in accordance with MSD s relocation policy. For Eligible Employees who
are field sales representatives, the new work location is 

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

9 

the geographic workload center of the new territory as determined by the Employer in its
sole and absolute discretion. 

** 
       
     The Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) may offer a position at the same
time the organizational change or reduction in force occurs or at any time prior to the
Eligible Employee s Separation Date and may offer a position for any reason, including but
not limited to as a result of the Eligible Employee s application for a position in
accordance with job posting system of MSD (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries). 

*** 
       
     For purposes of determining whether a Separation From Service has occurred ( and not for
purposes of calculating Separation Pay ), at least 100% the Base Pay Rate is calculated as
of the date the alternate position is offered to the Eligible Employee. 

For an Eligible Employee offered an alternative position at the same percentage of time
(for example, full-time to full-time, 50% time to 50% time), a Separation From Service will
not occur if the new position is offered with a Base Pay Rate equal to at least 100% of the
Eligible Employee s Base Pay Rate.

For an Eligible Employee whose current position is less than 100% full-time who is offered
an alternate position at a higher percentage of full-time up to 100% of full-time, a
Separation From Service will not occur if the new position is offered with a Base Pay Rate
equal to the greater of (a) at least 100% of the Eligible Employee s Base Pay Rate or (b)
at least 100% of the Eligible Employee s Adjusted Base Pay Rate.

For an Eligible Employee whose current position is full-time who is offered an alternate
position of less than 100% full-time, a Separation From Service will not occur if the new
position is offered with a Base Pay Rate equal to at least 100% of the Eligible Employee s
Base Pay Rate.

An example: Eligible Employee with a 60% full-time position at a Base Pay Rate of $60,000
who is offered an alternate position at 80% full-time has an Adjusted Base Rate of $80,000.
A Separation From Service does not occur if the alternate position is offered at a Base
Pay Rate of at least $80,000 (100% of the greater of $80,000 or $60,000). Assume the
alternate position was 50% full-time. A Separation From Service does not occur if the
alternate position is offered at a Base Pay Rate of at least $60,000 (100% of $60,000).

Whether a Separation From Service has occurred is determined at the time the alternate
position is offered and  not  at the time the actual reduction in Base Pay Rate (or Adjusted
Base Pay Rate), if any, applicable to the alternate position offered is effective. The
effectuation of a reduction in Base Pay Rate (or Adjusted Base Pay Rate) applicable to the
alternate position previously offered is not a Separation From Service regardless of when
the reduction is actually made.

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

10 

A  Separation From Service  does not occur if the terms and conditions of the offers of
employment to Eligible Employees in connection with a divestiture, outsourcing, formation
of a joint venture or other transaction agreed to between Employer (or the Parent) and the
buyer, vendor, joint venture or other entity include a level of base pay of less than 100%
of the Eligible Employees  Base Pay Rate (or Adjusted Base Pay Rate) on the date of the
applicable transaction.

2.34  Separation Pay   means the cash benefit payable under this Plan pursuant to Section
4.1.

2.35  Separation Pay Period   means the period beginning on the date the
 Covered Employee incurs a Separation From Service during which Separation Pay described on
Schedule B is payable in periodic installments in accordance with the Employer s normal
payroll periods. Payment of Separation Pay in a lump sum under the Plan does not shorten
the Separation Pay Period.

2.36  Separation Plan Benefits   means Separation Pay described in Section 4.1 and
Separation Benefits described in Sections 4.2 and 4.3.

2.37  Temporary Employee   means an employee hired and paid by the Employer for a specific
position in the U.S. for a designated length of time, which is normally not more than 24
consecutive months in duration, who is committed to leave the Employer at the end of that
time and who is not an Excluded Person.

2.38  U.S. Expatriate   means a U.S. citizen or individual with U.S. Permanent Resident
status who is employed by a foreign subsidiary of MSD, as a foreign service employee and
who is not an an Excluded Person.

SECTION 3 

ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS 

(a) 
       
     An Eligible Employee will be eligible for Separation Plan Benefits described
in Section 4 when he/she experiences a Separation From Service. Separation Pay and
Separation Benefits shall be provided under this Plan only if the Eligible Employee
has executed and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoked a Release of
Claims in a form satisfactory to MSD in its sole and nonreviewable discretion. An
Eligible Employee who has executed and, if a revocation period is applicable, not
revoked a Release of Claims is a Covered Employee. 

(b) 
       
     An Eligible Employee will also be entitled to receive those pension benefits
set forth in Schedule E (Change in Control/Pension) and retiree healthcare and life
insurance benefits set forth in Schedule F (change in Control/Retiree Healthcare and
Life Insurance) if (i) a Change in Control has occurred and (ii) within two years
thereafter, the Eligible Employee s employment with the Employer is terminated by the
Employer without Cause and other than for 

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

11 

death or Permanent Disability. MSD may, to the extent it deems necessary or
appropriate (including to comply with applicable law), (1) cause the benefits set
forth in Schedule E to be paid from the MSD Supplemental Retirement Plan (the
 Supplemental Plan ) or otherwise from MSD s general assets and (2) cause the benefits
set forth in Schedule F to be provided from an insured arrangement, pursuant to
individual arrangements or otherwise. For purposes of this Section 3(b), the terms
 Cause  and  Permanent Disability  shall have the meanings set forth in the CIC Plan
(and, for the avoidance of doubt, a valid amendment of these definitions under the CIC
Plan shall constitute an amendment of this Plan without further action). 

SECTION 4 

BENEFITS 

4.1 Separation Pay    Separation Pay shall be payable under this Plan as set forth on
Schedule B-1 to a Covered Employee whose Separation From Service occurs on or after
January 1, 2009 but on or before December 31, 2011. Separation Pay shall be payable under
this Plan as set forth on Schedule B-2 to a Covered Employee whose Separation From Service
occurs on or after January 1, 2012. The terms of such Schedule B-1 and Schedule B-2 are
hereby fully incorporated into and shall be considered as part of Section 4 of this Plan.
In no event shall the Separation Pay under the Plan exceed 200% of a Covered Employee s
Annual Base Salary.

4.2 Outplacement Benefits    Benefits for outplacement counseling or other outplacement
services, as set forth in Schedule D will be made available to a Covered Employee. The
terms of such Schedule D are hereby fully incorporated into and shall be considered as part
of Section 4 of this Plan. Outplacement benefits shall be provided in kind; cash shall not
be paid in lieu of outplacement benefits nor will Separation Pay be increased if a Covered
Employee declines or does not use the outplacement benefits.

4.3 Medical, Dental and Basic Life Insurance Benefits 

(a) 
       
     A Covered Employee shall continue medical, dental and Basic
Life Insurance coverage during the Separation Pay Period. If the Separation
Pay Period is less than 6 months, the medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance
coverage described in this Section 4.3 shall continue for the 6-month period
beginning on the first day of the month coincident with or following the date
the Covered Employee incurs a Separation From Service. 

(b) 
       
     The medical and dental and Basic Life insurance coverages
that shall be continued under this Section 4.3 are those coverages that are in
effect for the Covered Employee as of the date the Covered Employee

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

12 

incurs a Separation From Service, subject to and in accordance with the terms
of the applicable medical, dental and life insurance plans as they may be
amended from time to time. A Covered Employee who, prior to the Separation
From Service, had elected no medical or dental coverage under MSD s medical or
dental plans will not be permitted to change from no medical and/or dental
coverage to coverage as a result of a Separation From Service. The Covered
Employee who continues medical and dental coverage may change such coverages
(e.g., coverage option and family status) subject to the terms and conditions
of the applicable plans as they apply to active employees. 

(c) 
       
     These Separation Benefits shall begin on the first day of the
month coincident with or following the date the Covered Employee incurs a
Separation From Service. The medical, dental and Basic Life insurance
coverages shall end on the last day of the month in which the Separation Pay
Period ends or, if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, then at
the end of the 6-month period during which medical and dental coverages are
provided. 

(d) 
       
     Contributions for Separation Benefits shall be payable by the
Covered Employee in the time and manner specified by MSD from time to time. 

(e) 
       
     Eligibility for COBRA continuation coverage for medical
and/or dental plan coverage shall begin at the first day of the month
following the expiration of the Separation Pay Period, or, if the Separation
Pay Period is less than 6 months, then at the end of the 6 month period during
which medical and dental coverages are provided. If the Separation Date is
prior to December 31, 2010, the Covered Employee will also be eligible to
continue Basic Life Insurance coverage under the continuation provisions of
the life insurance plan, if any, and as they may be amended from time to time,
for the balance of the plan continuation period. 

(f) 
       
     At the time the Release of Claims is signed, the Covered
Employee may decline to continue medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance
Separation Benefits under this paragraph; however, the Covered Employee must
decline to continue all such Separation Benefits. Such election to decline
Separation Benefits is irrevocable. Cash shall not be paid in lieu of
Separation Benefits nor will Separation Pay be increased if a Covered Employee
declines medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance coverage. If the Covered
Employee declines medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance Separation
Benefits, then he/she shall be eligible for COBRA continuation coverage for
medical and dental in accordance with the COBRA continuation provisions of the
medical and dental plans applicable to terminated employees, and if the
Separation Date is prior to December 31, 2010, continuation of the Basic Life
insurance in accordance with the continuation provisions of

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

13 

the life insurance plan, if any, and as they may be amended from time to time.
If Separation Benefits are provided during the period for consideration and
revocation of the Release of Claims and, upon signing the Release of Claims,
the Covered Employee declines medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance
Separation Benefits, then contributions for the Separation Benefits provided
during the consideration and revocation periods will be deducted from the
Separation Pay. 

(g) Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding:

no medical coverage shall be provided under this Plan to an Eligible
Employee or a Covered Employee who is or becomes eligible for retiree
medical benefits upon retirement in connection with a Separation From
Service; 

no dental coverage shall be provided under this Plan to an Eligible
Employee or a Covered Employee who is or becomes eligible for retiree
dental benefits upon retirement in connection with a Separation From
Service; 

no Basic Life Insurance coverage shall be provided under this Plan to
an Eligible Employee or a Covered Employee who is or becomes eligible to
be treated as a retiree (including a  bridged  retiree) in connection with
a Separation From Service under the defined benefit pension plan in which
the individual participates as of his/her Separation From Service; and 

to the extent that an Eligible Employee or Covered Employee becomes
entitled to benefits pursuant to Schedule F of the Plan, no coverage shall
be provided under this Section 4.3. 

4.4 Reduction of Benefits  - Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, a
Covered Employee s Separation Pay shall be reduced by:

(a) 
       
     any amount the Plan Administrator reasonably concludes the
Covered Employee owes the Employer (or the Parent or any subsidiary or
affiliate of the Parent) including, without limitation, unpaid bills under the
corporate credit card program, and for vacation used, but not earned; and 

(b) 
       
     any severance or severance type benefits that the Employer
(or the Parent or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Parent) must pay to a
Covered Employee under applicable law; and 

(c) 
       
     where permitted by law, any payments received by the Covered
Employee pursuant to state workers compensation laws; and 

(d) 
       
     short term disability benefits where state law does not
permit Separation Pay to be offset from short term disability benefits (or

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

14 

where the Employer in its sole and absolute discretion determines it is
administratively easier for the Employer to reduce Separation Pay by short
term disability benefits in lieu of reducing short term disability benefits by
Separation Pay). 

Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, a Covered Employee s Separation Pay
and Separation Benefits are not meant to duplicate pay and benefits provided by the
Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) in connection with any Covered
Employee s Separation From Service, including pay and benefits under the federal Worker
Adjustment Retraining and Notification Act and any state or local equivalent (collectively
the  WARN Act ). If the Plan Administrator determines that a Covered Employee is entitled
to WARN Act damages or WARN Act notice, the Plan Administrator in its sole and absolute
discretion may reduce the Covered Employee s Separation Pay and Separation Benefits under
the Plan by the WARN Act damages or pay and benefits after receiving WARN Act notice, but
not below $500, with the remaining Separation Pay and Separation Benefits provided to the
Covered Employee in accordance with the terms of the Plan in satisfaction of the Covered
Employee s WARN Act notice rights or damages. In all other cases, Separation Pay paid
under the Plan in excess of $500 will be treated as having been paid to satisfy any WARN
Act damages, if applicable.

SECTION 5 

FORM AND TIMING OF BENEFITS; FORFEITURE AND REPAYMENT OF BENEFITS 

5.1 Form and Time of Payment  - Separation Pay shall commence as soon as practicable after
the Covered Employee s Separation From Service and the expiration of any period during
which the Covered Employee may consider, sign and, if a revocation period is applicable,
revoke the Release of Claims. Separation Pay, less taxes and applicable deductions shall
be paid in periodic installments corresponding to the Employer s normal payroll periods;
provided, however, that if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, then the
Employer will pay the Separation Pay in a lump sum.

Payments generally may not be made on account of separation from service for six months
following the termination of employment of a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg.
Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees
of a company ranked by compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the
contrary, if a Covered Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to
the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no
payments will be made to him or her prior to the first day of the sixth month following
termination of employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

15 

have been payable will be accumulated and paid, without interest , as soon as
administratively feasible following such six-month period.

5.2 Taxes    Separation Pay payable under this Plan shall be subject to the withholding of
appropriate federal, state and local taxes.

Section 409A   Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, benefits under this
Plan (including Separation Pay and Separation Benefits) that are subject to Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be adjusted to avoid the excise tax
under Section 409A. The Employer will take any and all steps it determines are necessary,
in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under this Plan (including
Separation Pay and Separation Benefits) to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A,
including but not limited to, reducing or eliminating benefits, changing the time or form
of payment of benefits, etc.

5.3 Forfeiture of Benefits    The Employer reserves the right, in its sole and absolute
discretion, to cancel all benefits under this Plan in the event a Covered Employee engages
in any activity that the Employer considers detrimental to its interests (or the interests
of the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) as determined by the Parent s Senior Vice
President and General Counsel and the Parent s Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
Activities that the Employer considers detrimental to its interest (or the interests of the
Parent or any of its subsidiaries) include, but are not limited to:

(a) 
       
     breach of any obligations of the Covered Employee s Terms
and Conditions of Employment; 

(b) 
       
     making false or misleading statements about the Employer,
the Parent or any of its subsidiaries or their products, officers or
employees to competitors, customers, potential customers of the Employer, the
Parent or any of its subsidiaries or to current or former employees of the
Employer, the Parent or any of its subsidiaries; and 

(c) 
       
     breaching any terms of the Release of Claims, including, if
included in the Release of Claims, any non-solicitation or non-competition
provisions. 

5.4 Cessation of Separation Pay and Separation Benefits  - Separation Pay and Separation
Benefits shall cease in the event a Covered Employee is rehired by the Employer, the Parent
or one of its subsidiaries or affiliates other than Telerx Marketing, Inc..

5.5 Return of Separation Pay  - If Separation Pay is paid under this Plan in a lump sum,
and an event described in 5.3 or 5.4 occurs pursuant to which Separation Benefits would
cease, then the Covered Employee shall repay to the Employer that portion of the lump sum
amount that would not have been paid had the Separation Pay been paid in installments. If
Separation Pay is paid in a lump

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

16 

sum and the Covered Employee receives short term disability benefits from the Employer
during the Separation Pay Period, the Employer reserves the right to seek repayment by the
Covered Employee of that portion of the Separation Pay that would not have been paid in
accordance with Section 4.4 had the Separation Pay been paid in installments.

5.6
Death of Covered Employee     If a Covered Employee dies before the Separation Pay
has been fully paid, the balance of payments will be payable to the Covered Employee s
estate, less contributions for continued medical and dental coverage as described below.
If the Covered Employee s dependents were covered under the medical and dental coverages
(other than coverages applicable to retirees and their dependents) at the time of the
Covered Employee s death, and, prior to payment of the balance of the Separation Pay, they
choose to continue to be covered under the medical and dental coverages, they will continue
to do so for the balance of the Separation Pay Period. Such coverages shall be subject to
and in accordance with the terms of the applicable plans as they may be amended from time
to time. Contributions for the medical and dental coverages will be payable by the
dependents in the time and manner specified by MSD. The dependents covered at the time of
the Covered Employee s death may change such coverages (e.g., coverage option and family
status) subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable medical and dental plans as
they apply to active employees of MSD. Any additional contributions that result from a
change in family status must be paid by the dependents in the time and manner specified by
MSD in order to maintain such coverage. Upon the expiration of the continued coverage under
this paragraph, those dependents who are still covered shall be offered COBRA continuation
coverage for the balance of the 36-month period beginning at the date of the death of the
Covered Employee.

SECTION 6 

ADMINISTRATION, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 

6.1 Plan Administration    MSD or its delegate is the Plan Administrator for purposes
of ERISA.

6.2 Powers and Duties of Plan Administrator    The Plan Administrator shall have the
full discretionary power and authority to: (i) construe and interpret the Plan (including,
without limitation, supplying omissions from, correcting deficiencies in, or resolving
inconsistencies or ambiguities in, the language of the Plan); (ii) determine all questions
of fact arising under the Plan, including questions as to eligibility for and the amount of
benefits; (iii) establish such rules and regulations (consistent with the terms of the
Plan) as it deems necessary or appropriate for administration of the Plan; (iv) delegate
responsibilities to others to assist in administering the Plan; and (v) perform all other
acts it believes reasonable and proper in connection with the administration of the Plan.
The Plan Administrator shall be entitled to rely on the records of the Employer in
determining any Covered Employee s entitlement to and the amount of benefits

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

17 

payable under the Plan. Any determination of the Plan Administrator, including
interpretations of the Plan and determinations of questions of fact, shall be final and
binding on all parties.

Additional Discretionary Authority    The Plan Administrator may, upon written approval of
the Parent s Senior Vice President, Human Resources (written approval of the Compensation
and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Parent or its delegate with respect
to Section 16 Officers), take the following actions under the Plan:

(a) 
       
     grant some, all or any portion of the benefits under this
Plan to an employee who would not otherwise be eligible for such benefits
under Section 3 above; 

(b) 
       
     waive the requirement set forth in Section 3 for any
individual Eligible Employee or group of Eligible Employees to execute a
Release of Claims; 

(c) 
       
     grant additional Separation Plan Benefits to a Covered
Employee; and 

(d) 
       
     pay Separation Pay to a Covered Employee in a single lump
sum. 

6.4  
       
      Plan Year    The Plan Year shall be the calendar year. 

(a) 
       
     Any request or claim for benefits under the Plan must be
filed by a claimant or the claimant s authorized representative within 60 days
after the date the event occurs that the claimant alleges gives rise to the
claimant s claim (e.g., for eligibility for Separation Pay, within 60 days
after the claimant s employment with the Employer ends; for amount of
Separation Pay, within 60 days after the first payment of allegedly incorrect
Separation Pay; for forfeiture of Separation Pay under Section 5.3, within 60
days after the cessation of payment). 

(b) 
       
     Any request or claim for benefits under the Plan shall be
deemed to be filed when a written request made by the claimant or the
claimant s authorized representative addressed to the Claims Reviewer at the
address below is received by the Claims Reviewer. 

Claims Reviewer for the Separation Benefits Plan 
c/o Secretary of the Employee Benefits Committee 
WS 3B-35 
Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. 
One Merck Drive, P.O. Box 100 
Whitehouse Station, NJ 08889-0100

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

18 

The claim for benefits shall be reviewed by, and a determination shall be
made by, the Claims Reviewer, within the timeframe required for notice of
adverse benefit determinations described below. 

(c) 
       
     The Claims Reviewer shall provide written or electronic
notification to the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative of
any  adverse benefit determination.  Such notice shall be provided within a
reasonable time but not later than 90 days after the receipt by the Claims
Reviewer of the claimant s claim, unless the Claims Reviewer determines that
special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim.
If the Claims Reviewer determines that an extension of time for processing is
required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant
before the expiration of the initial 90-day period indicating the special
circumstances requiring an extension and the date by which the Claims Reviewer
expects to render the benefit determination. No extension can exceed 90 days
from the end of the initial 90-day period (i.e., 180 days from the receipt of
the claim by the Claims Reviewer) without the consent of the claimant or the
claimant s authorized representative. 

(d) 
       
     An  adverse benefit determination  is a denial,
reduction, or termination of, or a failure to provide or make payment (in
whole or part) for a benefit, including one that is based on a determination
of a claimant s eligibility to participate in the Plan. 

(e) 
       
     The notice of adverse benefit determination shall be written in a manner
calculated to be understood by the claimant and shall: 

(i) 
       
     set forth the specific reasons for the adverse benefit determination; 

(ii) 
       
     contain specific references to Plan provisions
on which the determination is based; 

(iii) 
       
     describe any material or information
necessary for the claim for benefits to be allowed and an explanation
of why such information is necessary; and 

(iv) 
       
     describe the Plan s appeal procedures and the time limits
applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant s
right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an
adverse benefit determination on review. 

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

19 

(a) 
       
     Any request to review the Claims Reviewer s adverse
benefit determination under the Plan must be filed by a claimant or the
claimant s authorized representative in writing within 60 days after receipt
by the claimant of written notification of adverse benefit determination by
the Claims Reviewer. If the claimant or the claimant s authorized
representative fails to file a request for review of the Claims Reviewer s
adverse benefit determination in writing within 60 days after receipt by the
claimant of written notification of adverse benefit determination, the Claims
Reviewer s determination shall become final and conclusive. 

(b) 
       
     Any request to review an adverse benefit determination
under the Plan shall be deemed to be filed when a written request is made by
the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative addressed to the
Employee Benefits Committee at the address below is received by the Secretary
of the Employee Benefits Committee. 

Employee Benefits Committee 
c/o Secretary to the Employee Benefits Committee 
WS 3B-35 
Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. 
One Merck Drive, P. O. Box 100 
Whitehouse Station, NJ 08889-0100

(c) 
       
     If the claimant or the claimant s authorized
representative timely files a request for review of the Claims Reviewer s
adverse benefit determination as specified in this Section 6.6, the Employee
Benefits Committee shall re-examine all issues relevant to the original
adverse benefit determination taking into account all comments, documents,
records, and other information submitted by the claimant or the claimant s
authorized representative relating to the claim, without regard to whether
such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit
determination. Any such claimant or his or her duly authorized representative
may 

(i) 
       
     upon request and free of charge have reasonable access to, and copies of, all
documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits;
whether an item is relevant shall be determined by the Employee Benefits Committee in
accordance with 29 CFR 2560.503-1 (m)(8); and 

(ii) 
       
     submit in writing any comments, documents,
records, and other information relating to the claim for benefits. 

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

20 

(d) 
       
     The Employee Benefits Committee shall provide written or
electronic notice to the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative
of its benefit determination on review. Such notice shall be provided within
a reasonable time but not later than 60 days after the receipt by the Employee
Benefits Committee of the claimant s request for review, unless the Employee
Benefits Committee determines that special circumstances require an extension
of time for processing the request for review. If the Employee Benefits
Committee determines that an extension of time for processing is required,
written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant before the
expiration of the initial 60-day period indicating the special circumstances
requiring an extension and the date by which the Employee Benefits Committee
expects to render the benefit determination. No extension can exceed 60 days
from the end of the initial 60-day period (i.e., 120 days from the date the
request for review is received by the Employee Benefits Committee) without the
consent of the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative. 

(e) 
       
     If the claimant s appeal is denied, the notice of
adverse benefit determination on review shall be written in a manner
calculated to be understood by the claimant and shall: 

(i) 
       
     set forth the specific reasons for the
adverse benefit determination on review; 

(ii) 
       
     contain specific references to Plan provisions on which the
benefit determination is based; 

(iii) 
       
     contain a statement that the claimant is
entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable
access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other
information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits; whether an
item is relevant shall be determined by the Employee Benefits
Committee in accordance with 29 CFR 2560.503-1 (m)(8); and 

(iv) 
       
     include a statement of the claimant s right
to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA. 

6.7 Amendment or Termination    Parent or its delegate has the right to amend or
terminate the Plan at any time without prior notice to or the consent of any employee. The
Chief Executive Officer of Parent or its delegate has the authority to amend or terminate
this Plan; provided, however, that amendments that apply only to Section 16 Officers must
also be approved by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of
Parent or its delegate. Any Eligible Employee whose employment continues after amendment
of the Plan and, other than to the extent specifically provided in this Section 6.7,

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

21 

the Separation Plan Benefits of any Covered Employee who experienced a Separation From
Service prior to such amendment, shall be governed by the terms of the Plan as so amended.
Any Eligible Employee whose employment continues after termination of the Plan and, other
than to the extent specifically provided in this Section 6.7, any Covered Employee who
experienced a Separation From Service prior to such termination, shall have no right to a
benefit under the Plan. A Covered Employee who experiences a Separation From Service prior
to any amendment to the Plan shall not be eligible for any increase in Separation Benefits
under the Plan. Nothing in this Plan in any way limits MSD s right to amend or terminate
any or all of MSD s plans that provide Separation Benefits as described in this Plan.

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.7, if the amendment or
modification of Schedule E or Schedule F prior to a Change in Control would adversely
affect the benefits or protections hereunder of any individual who is an Eligible Employee
as of the date such amendment or modification is adopted, such amendment or modification
shall be effective as it relates to such individual only if no Change in Control occurs
within one year after such adoption, any such attempted amendment or modification adopted
within one year prior to a Change in Control being null and void  ab   initio 
as it relates to all such individuals who were Eligible Employees prior to such adoption;
 provided ,  further , that neither Schedule E nor Schedule F may be amended or
modified (i) at the request of a third party who has indicated an intention or taken steps
to effect a Change in Control and who effectuates a Change in Control or (ii) otherwise in
connection with, or in anticipation of, a Change in Control which actually occurs, any such
attempted amendment or modification being null and void  ab   initio . In
addition, this Section 6.7 shall be subject to Section 6.8 upon and following a Change in
Control.

6.8 Additional Provisions .

1. Except to the extent required by applicable law, for the entirety of the Protection
Period, the material terms of the Plan shall not be modified in any manner that is
materially adverse to the Qualifying Participants.

2. During the Protection Period, the Plan may not be amended or modified to reduce or
eliminate the protections set forth in this Section 6.8 and may not be terminated.

3. MSD shall pay all legal fees and related expenses (including the costs of experts,
evidence and counsel) reasonably and in good faith incurred by a Qualifying Participant if
the Qualifying Participant prevails on his or her claim for relief in an action (x) by the
Qualifying Participant claiming that the provisions of this Section 6.8 have been violated
(but, for avoidance of doubt, excluding claims for plan benefits in the ordinary course)
and (y) if applicable, by MSD or the Employer or the Qualifying Participant s employer to
enforce post-termination covenants against the Qualifying Participant.

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

22 

4.    Definitions . For purposes of this Section 6.8:

(a)   Protection Period   shall mean the period beginning on the date of the
Change in Control and ending on the second anniversary of the date of the Change in
Control; and

(b)   Qualifying Participants   shall mean those individuals who participate in
the Plan (whether as current or former employees) as of immediately prior to the Change in
Control.

SECTION 7 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 

7.1 Unfunded Obligation  - Separation Pay payable under this Plan and Outplacement Benefits
provided under this Plan shall constitute an unfunded obligation of the Employer. Payments
shall be made, as due, from the general funds of the Employer. This Plan shall constitute
solely an unsecured promise by the Employer to pay such benefits to Eligible Employees and
to Covered Employees to the extent provided herein. Participant contributions
are required for Separation Benefits. Separation Benefits under this Plan provide Covered
Employees with eligibility for continued medical, dental and life insurance coverage under
the applicable MSD plans and Schedule E and Schedule F of this Plan provide Eligible
Employees with eligibility for certain retirement benefits under the applicable MSD plans.
This Plan does not provide the substantive benefits under those plans.

7.2 Applicable Law    It is intended that the Plan be an  employee welfare benefit plan 
within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA, and the Plan shall be administered in a manner
consistent with such intent. The Plan and all rights thereunder shall be governed and
construed in accordance with ERISA and, to the extent not preempted by federal law, with
the laws of the state of New Jersey, wherein venue shall lie for any dispute arising
hereunder.

7.3 Severability    If any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any
reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of this Plan,
but this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if said illegal or invalid provision had
never been included herein.

7.4 Employment at Will    Nothing contained in this Plan shall give an employee the right to
be retained in the employment of the Employer or shall otherwise modify the employee s at
will employment relationship with the Employer. This Plan is not a contract of employment
between the Employer and any employee.

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

23 

SCHEDULE A 

In addition to Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., the following employers participate in this Plan:

Merck and Company, Incorporated 
Merck Holdings, Inc. 
KBI Enterprises, Inc. 
Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC. 
Merck HDAC Research, LLC. 
Abmaxis, Inc. 
Glycofi, Inc. 
Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

24 

SCHEDULE B-1 

Effective January 1, 2009

Separation Pay for Covered Employees whose Separation From Service occurs on or after 
January 1, 2009 but on or before December 31, 2011  

For purposes of calculating Separation Pay: 

A  days pay  means the Covered Employee s Annual Base Salary in effect on the date
the Covered Employee experiences a Separation in Service divided by 260. A  weeks
pay  means a  days pay  multiplied by five. 

SEPARATION PAY

Grade Level 
       
     Separation Pay 

Non-Exempt

2 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks 

pay per Complete Year of Continuous 

10-14

Service. 

Maximum of 78 weeks.  

7-9

4 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks 

pay per Complete Year of Continuous 

Service. 

Maximum of 78 weeks.  

5-6

12 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks 

pay per Complete Year of Continuous 

Service. 

Maximum of 78 weeks.  

4

12 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks 

pay per Complete Year of Continuous 

Service. 

Maximum of 78 weeks.  

1-3

26 weeks pay 

with less than 1 Complete Year of
Continuous Service

1-3

41 weeks pay 

with at least 1 Complete Year but
less than 2 complete years of
Continuous Service

1-3

41 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks 

with at least 2 Complete Years of

pay per Complete Year of Continuous 

Continuous Service

Service 

Maximum of 78 weeks.  

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

25 

SCHEDULE B-2 

Effective January 1, 2009

Separation Pay for Covered Employees whose Separation From Service occurs on or after 
January 1, 2012  

For purposes of calculating Separation Pay: 

A  days pay  means the Covered Employee s Annual Base Salary in effect on the date
the Covered Employee experiences a Separation in Service divided by 260. A  weeks
pay  means a  days pay  multiplied by five. 

SEPARATION PAY

Grade Level 
       
     Separation Pay 

Non-Exempt

2 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks pay per Complete Year of 

Continuous Service. 

10-14

Maximum of 52 weeks.  

7-9

3 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks pay per Complete Year of 

Continuous Service. 

Maximum of 52 weeks.  

5-6

4 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks pay per Complete Year of 

Continuous Service. 

Maximum of 52 weeks.  

4

12 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks pay per Complete Year of 

Continuous Service. 

Maximum of 52 weeks.  

1-3

26 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks pay per Complete Year of 

Continuous Service 

Maximum of 52 weeks.  

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

26 

SCHEDULE C

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

27 

SCHEDULE D

OUTPLACEMENT BENEFITS

GRADE LEVEL  
       
      PROGRAM NAME  
       
      DURATION  

Non-Exempt

Individual Career Transition 
       
           2 Day Milestones Seminar

Seminar 
       
           Up to six (6) individual follow-up  
 consulting sessions

10-14

Counseling 

3 months access to Career Resource

Network 

7-9

Career Assistance Program 
       
     3 Months 

5-6

Career Transition Service 
       
     6 Months 

4

Executive Service 
       
     12 Months 

1-3

Senior Executive Service 
       
     12 Months 

The Outplacement Benefits are provided through a third party vendor. The programs listed above are
the programs in effect through the vendor engaged by MSD as of the October 1, 2010 to provide such
services. The vendor and/or the programs may change from time to time.

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

28 

SCHEDULE E (Change in Control/Pension)  
Description of Change-in-Control Benefits under the 
MSD Salaried Retirement Plan (the  Pension Plan )

This Schedule describes benefits under the Pension Plan and the Supplemental Plan
provided to an Eligible Employee under the Plan if such Eligible Employee signs and returns
the release of claims in use under the CIC Plan.

I. If an Eligible Employee s employment is terminated in circumstances entitling him or her
to the benefits provided in Section 3(b) of the Plan:

1. For an Eligible Employee who participates in the Pension Plan and on his or
her Separation Date is not at least age 55 with at least ten years of Credited
Service under the Pension Plan but would attain at least age 50 and have at least
ten years of Credited Service under the Pension Plan within two years following the
date of the Change in Control (assuming continued employment during the entirety of
such two-year period), then the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to be eligible
for a subsidized early retirement benefit under the Pension Plan commencing no
earlier than age 55 based on his or her Credited Service under the Pension Plan
accrued as of his or her Separation Date.

2. For an Eligible Employee who participates in the Pension Plan and on his or
her Separation Date is not at least age 65 but would attain at least age 65 within
two years following the date of the Change in Control without regard to years of
Credited Service (assuming continued employment during the entirety of such
two-year period), then the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to be eligible for a
benefit unreduced for early commencement under the Pension Plan commencing as soon
after his or her Separation Date that he or she elects to commence to receive
benefits.

3. For an Eligible Employee who participates in the Pension Plan and on his or her
Separation Date is not eligible for the  Rule of 85 Transition Benefit  (as such
term is defined in the Pension Plan) but would have been eligible for the Rule of
85 Transition Benefit within two years following the date of the Change in Control
(assuming continued employment during the entirety of such two-year period), then
the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to be eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition
Benefit upon commencement of his or her pension benefit under the Pension Plan.

II. The benefits described in this Schedule E shall be payable from the Pension Plan and,
to the extent that such benefits cannot be paid from the Pension Plan, MSD may, to the
extent it deems necessary or appropriate (including to comply with applicable law and to
preserve grandfathered status of arrangements subject to Section 409A of the Code), cause
such benefits to be paid under the Supplemental Plan or under new arrangements or from
MSD s general assets.

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

29 

SCHEDULE F (Change in Control/Retiree Healthcare and Life Insurance) 

Description of Change-in-Control Benefits under the MSD Medical Plan for Nonunion Employees
and the MSD Dental Plan for Nonunion Employees (which plans are part of the MSD Medical,
Dental and Long-Term Disability Program for Nonunion Employees) (the  Health Plan ) and the
MSD Group Term Life and Optional Insurance Plan (the  Life Insurance Plan )

This Schedule describes benefits under the Health Plan and the Life Insurance Plan
provided to an Eligible Employee under the Plan if such Eligible Employee signs and returns
the release of claims in use under the CIC Plan.

I. If an Eligible Employee s employment is terminated in circumstances entitling him or her
to the benefits provided in Section 3(b) of the Plan:

(1) If the Eligible Employee is eligible to participate in the Health Plan and on his
or her Separation Date is not at least age 55 with the requisite amount of service with an
Employer to satisfy the requirements to be considered a retiree under the Health Plan but
would attain at least age 50 and meet the service requirements to be considered a retiree
under the Health Plan within two years following the date of the Change in Control
(assuming continued employment during the entirety of such two-year period), then the
Eligible Employee shall be eligible for retiree healthcare benefits under the Health Plan
on his or her Separation Date on the same terms and conditions applicable to salaried
U.S.-based employees of the Employer whose employment terminated the last day of the month
prior to the Eligible Employee s Separation Date who were treated as retirees under the
Health Plan as of that date.

(2) If the Eligible Employee is eligible to participate in the Health Plan and on his
or her Separation Date is not either at least age 65 or at least age 55 with the requisite
amount of service with an Employer to satisfy the requirements to be considered a retiree
under the Life Insurance Plan but would attain at least age 65 or at least age 50 and meet
the service requirements to be considered a retiree under the Life Insurance Plan within
two years following the date of the Change in Control (assuming continued employment during
the entirety of such two-year period), then the Eligible Employee shall be eligible for
retiree life insurance benefits under the Life Insurance Plan on his or her Separation Date
on the same terms and conditions applicable to salaried U.S.-based employees of the
Employer whose employment terminated the last day of the month prior to the Eligible
Employee s Separation Date who were treated as retirees under the Life Insurance Plan as of
that date.

II. MSD may, to the extent it deems necessary or appropriate (including to comply with
applicable law and to preserve grandfathered status of arrangements subject to Section 409A
of the Code), cause the benefits set forth in this Schedule F to be provided from insured
arrangements, or pursuant to new arrangements, individual arrangements or otherwise.

sep bene plan/nonunion/revised 11-09

30 

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.11>
 3
 y87773exv10w11.htm
 EX-10.11

exv10w11 

EXHIBIT 10.11 

MSD 

SPECIAL SEPARATION PROGRAM 

FOR 

SEPARATED  EMPLOYEES 

Eligible Employees: Employees of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. (and certain of its
subsidiaries) who are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement and: 

(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or
between January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011; and 

(2) who, as of their Separation Date are 

Less than age 49; or  

At least age 49 but not yet age 64 with less than 9 years of Credited
Service  

Effective Date: As of October 1, 2010 

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

This document summarizes the benefits for which a  Separated Employee  may be eligible under
the Special Separation Program and other employee benefit plans and programs of Merck Sharp  
Dohme,Corp. ( MSD ). Unless otherwise noted below, the terms and conditions of MSD s employee
benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee s termination of employment from the Employer
are as described in the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable
summaries of material modification) previously provided to you or provided to you with this
Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the applicable sections of the MSD Benefits Book) may be
amended from time to time. (A copy of the applicable sections of the MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) can be obtained on
line at  http://hr.merck.com or
www.merck.com/benefits  or by calling the Merck Benefits Service Center at 1-800-666-3725).
However, to the extent that the terms below differ from those described in the applicable sections
of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification), this
communication constitutes a summary of material modifications and should be kept with that book.

Separated Employees  are certain nonunionized employees of the Employer

(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as that term is defined in the Separation
Benefits Plan) on or between January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011; and

(2) who, as of their Separation Date, is:

Less than age 49 or 

At least age 49 but not yet age 64 with less than nine years of Credited
Service 

Separated Employees are only those employees who are designated by MSD as  Separated Employees. 
 Separated Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not
constitute a Separation From Service as determined by MSD, including employees who resign for any
reason. Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to Separated Employees and do not apply to
any other employees of Merck or its subsidiaries or affiliates, including the Employer.

If you have been designated as a Separated Employee, MSD will provide you with a separation letter
(the  Separation Letter ) that will describe the Special Separation Program benefits for which you
are eligible and include a release of legal claims against Merck and its subsidiaries and
affiliates, including the Employer, and may also include other terms, such as non-solicitation and
non-competition provisions, as MSD in its sole discretion decides to include. In order to receive
the benefits under the Special Separation Program, you must sign and return the Separation Letter
by the date stated in the letter (the  Separation Letter Return Date ) and, if a revocation period
is applicable to you, not revoke the letter within the revocation period.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

2 

Special Separation Program 

All benefits under this Special Separation Program are contingent upon the Separated Employee
signing (and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoking) the Separation Letter. They
consist of:

Separation Pay 

Outplacement Services 

Eligibility for continued medical, dental and life insurance benefits 

Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year
in which his or her Separation Date occurs if his or her Separation Date occurs after June
30 and on or before December 31 of that performance year 

Separation Pay, Outplacement Benefits and continued medical, dental and life insurance benefits are
described in the Separation Plan SPD distributed with this Brochure.

This Brochure describes the following:

the benefits for those Separated Employees who do not sign, or who sign and, if a
revocation period is applicable to them, later revoke, the Separation Letter; and 

the terms and conditions of certain MSD benefit plans and programs as they apply to any
separated employee without regard to whether they sign the Separation Letter. 

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental 

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter 

If you do not sign the Separation Letter (or if a revocation period is applicable to you, you
revoke the Separation Letter), your medical and dental coverage options in effect on your
Separation Date will continue under MSD s medical and dental plans (as they may be amended from
time to time) until the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. At the end of that
period, you will be eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to
18 months from your Separation Date. If you have no medical and/or dental coverage under MSD s
medical and dental plans on your Separation Date, you will not have medical and/or dental coverage,
as applicable, after your Separation Date nor will you be eligible to elect such coverage under
COBRA.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

3 

Special Separation Program   Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   If You Sign
the Separation Letter 

Under the Special Separation Program, if you sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period
is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), you will be eligible to continue
medical and dental coverage under MSD s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) for the
Separation Pay Period as more fully described in the Separation Plan SPD. If the Separation Pay
Period is less than six months, you may continue medical and dental coverage for six months. Your
contributions to continue such coverage will be the same as the contributions for active employees,
as they may change from time to time and will be payable to MSD (or its designee) in the time and
manner specified by MSD from time to time. If you do not pay the required contributions to MSD (or
its designee) in the time and manner specified by MSD from time to time, your coverage will be
terminated and it will not be reinstated. Provided you have paid the required contributions to
continue coverage, at the end of the Separation Pay Period or, if the Separation Pay Period is less
than 6 months, at the end of the 6-month period during which medical and dental coverages are
provided, you may elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to an additional
18 months.

Continuation of medical and dental coverages under the Special Separation Program is subject to the
early forfeiture provisions described in the Separation Plan SPD.

Life Insurance 

Whether or not you sign the Separation Letter, your accidental death and dismemberment
coverage ends on your Separation Date. In addition, a full month s premium for your life insurance
coverage in effect on your Separation Date may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in
which your Separation Date occurs.

Life Insurance   If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter 

If your Separation Date Occurs before December 31, 2010.   If your Separation Date occurs before
December 31, 2010 and you do not sign the Separation Letter (or if a revocation period is
applicable to you, you revoke the Separation Letter), your basic and optional employee group term
life, dependent life, and survivor income protection will continue for 31 days after your
Separation Date. After this 31-day period you may elect to continue these coverages at the level
in effect on your Separation Date under MSD s Life Insurance Plan (as it may be amended from time
to time). You may continue these coverages at your cost for up to the earlier of 30 months from
your Separation Date or age 65. If you wish to continue your survivor income protection and/or
your dependent life coverage, you must continue your

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

4 

employee group term life (basic and optional). Please note that if you have  old format  basic
life insurance and/or survivor income coverage in effect on December 31, 2010, that coverage will
terminate at midnight on that date and an amount of coverage will map to an amount of optional life
insurance effective January 1, 2011, which amount will be added to your then current optional life
insurance. See your annual enrollment communications for 2011 for more information on coverage
mapping. To continue your life insurance coverage(s) you must contact the Merck Benefits Service
Center (1-800-666-3725) within 31 days after your Separation Letter Return Date and you must pay
the applicable premium in the time and manner specified by MSD. If you fail to pay the premium in
the time and manner specified by MSD, your coverage(s) will be terminated and will not be
reinstated. If you are interested in continuing your coverage(s), contact the Merck Benefits
Service Center (1-800-666-3725) for more information.

If your Separation Date Occurs on or after December 31, 2010.   If your Separation Date occurs on or
after December 31, 2010 and you do not sign the Separation Letter (or if a revocation period is
applicable to you, you revoke the Separation Letter), your basic group term life insurance equal to
1x base pay will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this 31-day period you
may elect to convert this coverage to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain
limitations. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) or Prudential for more
information.

If your Separation Date occurs on or after December 31, 2010 whether or not you sign the Separation
Letter, your optional group term life insurance (including any amount of  old format  basic life
and/or survivor income protection coverage that is mapped to your optional life insurance coverage
effective January 1, 2011 as described in the annual enrollment communications for 2011) and
dependent life insurance will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this 31-day
period you may elect to convert or port this coverage to an individual policy with Prudential,
subject to certain limitations. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) or
Prudential for more information.

Special Separation Program   Life Insurance   If You Sign the Separation Letter 

If your Separation Date Occurs before December 31, 2010.   Under the Special Separation Program, if
your Separation Date occurs before December 31, 2010 and you sign the Separation Letter (and if a
revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), your basic employee
group term life insurance coverage will continue under MSD s Life Insurance Plan (as it may be
amended from time to time) until the earlier of (i) last day of the month in which the Separation
Pay Period ends, or, if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, then for 6 months
beginning on the first of the

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

5 

month coincident with or following your Separation Date as more fully described in the
Separation Plan SPD, or (ii) age 65. If your basic employee group term life coverage is under the
 Old Format  (that is, equal to 2x base pay with the 1 st  $20,000 company-paid and the
remainder up to 2x base pay employee-paid at .25/1,000), prior to January 1, 2011 your
contributions to continue such coverage will be the same as the contributions for active employees,
as they may change from time to time and will be payable to MSD (or its designee) in the time and
manner specified by MSD from time to time. Prior to January 1, 2011, if you do not pay the
required contributions to MSD (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by MSD from time
to time, your coverage will default to  New Format  (that is 1x base pay). No contributions are
required if your basic employee group term life coverage is under the  New Format  (that is 1x base
pay). If you continue to be covered under  Old Format  coverage as of December 31, 2010, then you
will be mapped effective January 1, 2011 to company-paid basic life insurance equal to 1x base pay
and employee-paid optional coverage of 1x base pay which will be added to your then current
optional life insurance, if any (see the annual enrollment communications for 2011 for more
information on coverage mapping). Continuation of basic life insurance under the Special Separation
Program is subject to the early forfeiture provisions described in the Separation Plan SPD.

If you sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke
the Separation Letter) and your basic life insurance continues, you may also continue optional term
life, dependent life and survivor income protection at your cost for up to the earlier of 30 months
from your Separation Date or age 65. If you wish to continue your survivor income protection and/or
your dependent life coverage, you must continue your optional employee group term life. Please note
that if you have  old format  basic life insurance and/or survivor income coverage in effect on
December 31, 2010, that coverage will terminate at midnight on that date and an amount of coverage
will map to an amount of optional life insurance effective January 1, 2011, which amount will be
added to your then current optional life insurance. See your annual enrollment communications for
2011 for more information on coverage mapping. To continue your optional life insurance coverage(s)
you must contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) within 31 days after your
Separation Letter Return Date and you must pay the applicable premium in the time and manner
specified by MSD. If you fail to pay the premium in the time and manner specified by MSD, your
optional coverage(s) will be terminated and they will not be reinstated. If you are interested in
continuing your optional coverage(s), contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725)
for more information. After the Separation Pay Period, you may continue your basic employee group
term life coverage at your cost for the remainder of the period ending at the earlier of the
expiration of the 30-month period from your Separation Date or age 65. At that time, if you are
interested in continuing your basic life coverage, you must contact the Merck Benefits Service
Center (1-800-666-3725).

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

6 

If your basic life insurance ends as a result of the early forfeiture provisions of the
Separation Benefits Plan, you will not be allowed to continue your optional coverages under the
30-month continuation provisions. See the life insurance section of the MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) for description of conversion rights.

If your Separation Date Occurs on or after December 31, 2010.   Under the Special Separation
Program, if your Separation Date occurs on or after December 31, 2010 and you sign the Separation
Letter (and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), your
basic employee group term life insurance coverage equal to 1x base pay will continue at no cost to
you under MSD s Life Insurance Plan (as it may be amended from time to time) until the earlier of
(i) last day of the month in which the Separation Pay Period ends, or, if the Separation Pay Period
is less than 6 months, then for 6 months beginning on the first of the month coincident with or
following your Separation Date as more fully described in the Separation Plan SPD, or (ii) age 65.
Continuation of basic life insurance under the Special Separation Program is subject to the early
forfeiture provisions described in the Separation Plan SPD.

If your Separation Date occurs on or after December 31, 2010 whether or not you sign the Separation
Letter, your optional group term life insurance (including any amount of  old format  and/or
survivor income protection coverage that is mapped to your optional life insurance coverage
effective January 1, 2011 as described in the annual enrollment communications for 2011) and
dependent life insurance will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this 31-day
period you may elect to convert or port this coverage to an individual policy with Prudential,
subject to certain limitations. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) or
Prudential for more information.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

7 

The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and life insurance
benefits offered under the Special Separation Program to the normal plan provisions.

Special Separation  

Program (if sign  

Regular Plan Provisions  
       
      letter)  

Medical, Dental, Prescription  
Drug 

Benefits continue
to the end of the
month in which your
Separation Date
occurs; eligible for
COBRA afterward 

Benefits continue
to the end of the
month in which the
Separation Pay
Period ends (or a
minimum of 6
months), provided
you pay the
applicable employee
contributions in
the time and manner
specified by MSD
(or its designee);
eligible for COBRA
afterward  

Basic Employee Term Life
Insurance (New Format-maximum
1x base pay; Prior to January
1, 2011, Old Format -2x base
pay) 

If your Separation
Date occurs before
December 31, 2010   
        coverage at
level in effect on
Separation Date
continues for 31 days,
provided  old format 
coverage is reduced to
1x base pay due to
mapping of  old
format  coverage
effective January 1,
2011 as described in
annual enrollment
materials for 2011;
and   

        you may elect
to continue coverage
for up to 30 months
(but not beyond age
65) from your
Separation Date at
your cost under the
Merck Life Insurance
Plan. 

If your Separation
Date occurs on or
after December 31,
2010, coverage equal
to 1x base pay
continues for 31 days. 
  
 In either event, you
may be eligible to
convert to an
individual policy with
Prudential after
coverage under the
Merck Life Insurance
Plan ends.   

Coverage under the
Merck Life
Insurance Plan
continues to the
end of the month in
which the
Separation Pay
Period ends (or a
minimum of 6
months) (but not
beyond age 65),
provided you pay
the applicable
employee
contributions in
the time and manner
specified by MSD
(or its designee)
for  old format 
coverage prior to
January 1, 2011 and
subject to mapping
of  old format 
coverage effective
January 1, 2011 as
described in annual
enrollment
materials for 2011.   

 If your Separation
Date occurs before
December 31, 2010,
you may elect to   continue
coverage
under the Merck
Life Insurance Plan
for the balance of
up to 30 months
(but not beyond age
65) from your
Separation Date at
your cost.   
 You may be eligible
to convert to an
individual policy
with Prudential
after coverage
under the Merck
Life Insurance Plan
ends.  

Optional Employee Group
Term Life, Dependent Life and
prior to January 1, 2011,
Survivor Income 

Coverage at level
in effect on your
Separation Date
continues for 31 days,
subject to mapping of
 old format  and
survivor income
coverage effective
January 1, 2011 as
described in annual
enrollment materials
for 2011.   
 If your Separation
Date occurs before
December 31, 2010, you
may elect to continue
coverage for up to 30
months (but not beyond
age 65) from your
Separation Date at
your cost under the
Merck Life Insurance
Plan    
 You may be eligible to
convert or port to an
individual policy with
Prudential after
coverage under the
Merck Life Insurance
Plan ends. 

Coverage at level
in effect on your
Separation Date
continues for 31
days, subject to
mapping of  old
format  and
survivor income
coverage effective
January 1, 2011 as
described in annual
enrollment
materials for 2011   
 If your Separation
Date occurs before
December 31, 2010,
you may elect to
continue coverage
for up to 30 months
(but not beyond age
65) from your
Separation Date at
your cost under the
Merck Life
Insurance Plan   
 You may be eligible
to convert or port
to an individual
policy with
Prudential after
coverage under the
Merck Life
Insurance Plan
ends.  

AD D 

No coverage 

No coverage  

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010 

8 

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )  

As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus,
depends on when a Separated Employee s Separation Date occurs during a performance year. Actual
AIP/EIP bonuses with respect to the performance year immediately preceding the Separated Employee s
Separation Date may be paid to employees whose employment terminates between January 1 and the time
AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees. No AIP/EIP or special payment in lieu
of a bonus with respect to the performance year in which the Separation Date occurs is payable for
any employee separated January 1 through June 30, inclusive. A special payment in lieu of a bonus
is payable under this program with respect to the performance year in which the Separation Date
occurs only for employees whose Separation Dates occur on or after July 1 and on or before December
31 of that performance year. For executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for
the most recent proxy materials issued by Merck in connection with the annual meeting of
shareholders, the amount of payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the following
principles, but Merck retains complete discretion to pay more, or less, than those amounts. The
Employer reserves the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments in
lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental wages subject to flat-rate withholding (that is, not taking
into account any exemptions).

If
Your Separation Date occurs between January 1 and prior to the time
AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for the prior performance year 

If your Separation Date occurs on or after January 1 and prior to the day AIP/EIP bonuses for the
prior performance year are paid to other MSD employees, you will be eligible for consideration for
an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the prior complete performance year on the same terms and
conditions as other MSD employees. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an
AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid
to other MSD employees or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for
that AIP/EIP performance year, as applicable. Eligibility for consideration for AIP/EIP bonus is
not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter. You will not be eligible for any AIP/EIP
or payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP for the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs.

If
Your Separation Date occurs between the time AIP/EIP bonuses for the prior performance year are paid and June 30 

If your Separation Date occurs after AIP/EIP bonuses for the prior performance year are paid
to other MSD employees and on or before June 30, you will not be eligible for consideration for an
AIP/EIP bonus or the special in lieu of bonus payment described below whether or not you sign the
Separation Letter.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010 

9 

If Your Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31 

If your Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31, a special payment in
lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be
paid only if you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke) the
Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based on the target bonus
applicable to you under the Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program with respect to
the current performance year and the number of full and partial months you worked in the current
performance year and is subject to adjustment by Merck in its sole discretion based on a variety of
factors, including but not limited to your documented poor or extraordinary performance in the
current performance year. If you receive a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus, it will be
paid to you (less applicable withholding) as soon as administratively feasible following your
Separation Date. However, if you elected to defer your AIP/EIP bonus, that election will apply to
payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.

OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS 

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units 

Only employees may receive incentives under Merck s incentive stock plans, including stock options,
restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or performance stock units ( PSUs  therefore, you will not be
eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.

Outstanding Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs 

Whether you sign the Separation Letter or not, the separation provisions applicable to stock
options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives you hold on your Separation Date
that were granted to you before 2010; the sale/involuntary termination provisions applicable to
stock options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives you hold on your Separation
Date that were granted to you after 2009. Provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS YOUR REPSONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF
INDIVIDUAL GRANTS. 

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010 

10 

Stock Options (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms) 
Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2001, the terms
are:

Vested options will expire upon the earlier of (i) the day before the one-year anniversary
of your Separation Date or (ii) the original 10-year expiration date.

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2001 through 2009:

Unvested options will vest on the Separation Date. You will then have two years to
exercise them and previously vested grants. All outstanding vested options including those
previously vested will expire on the day before the second anniversary of your Separation
Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier). 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made during 2010 and
thereafter, terms differ depending on whether your employment terminated due to the sale of your
division or otherwise in an involuntary termination:

If your employment is terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary, division or
joint venture, options that would have become exercisable within one year of your
Separation Date will be exercisable on your Separation Date and all others immediately
expire. All unexercised options will expire on the day before the first anniversary
of your Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier). 

If your employment terminates due to an other involuntary termination, options that
are unvested on your Separation date will expire on your Separation Date. Options
that are exercisable on your Separation Date will expire on the day before the first
anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier). 

Key R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants and other stock option grants may have different
terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.

If on your Separation Date your then outstanding equity is treated as described above and you are
rehired,

stock options granted before 2010 that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire
date will be reinstated to active status as if your employment had not been interrupted,
and 

stock options granted during 2010 and thereafter that are unexercised and outstanding
on your rehire date will continue to be treated as described above. 

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010 

11 

RSUs (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms) 

For RSUs
granted before 1/1/2011, under the separation provisions of the RSUs, a pro rata portion of
your annual grants of restricted stock units, if any, generally will vest and become distributable
at the same time as if your employment had continued; the remainder of the grant will expire on
your Separation Date. Different terms may apply to RSUs that were not granted as part of the
annual RSU grants. See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.

For each annual and quarterly RSU grant made on or after 1/1/2010, terms differ depending on
whether your employment terminated due to the sale of your division or otherwise in an involuntary
termination.

If your employment is terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary, division or joint venture, the
following portion of your RSU awards and accrued dividends, if any, will be distributed at the time
distributed to active employees: one-third if your Separation Date is on or after the grant date
but before the first anniversary of the grant date; two-thirds if your Separation Date is on or
after the first anniversary of the grant date but before the second anniversary of the grant date;
and all if your Separation Date is on or after the second anniversary of the grant date.

If your employment terminates in an other involuntary termination and your Separation Date occurs

On or after the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your RSU
grant generally will vest and become distributable to you (together with any applicable
accrued dividend equivalents) at the same time as if your employment had continued; the
remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date; or 

before the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, the entire grant (together with any
applicable accrued dividend equivalents) will expire on your Separation Date. 

See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.

  PSUs (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms) 

For PSUs granted before 1/1/2010, under the separation provisions of the PSUs, a pro rata portion
of your annual grant of performance share units will be payable, if at all, when the distribution
with respect to the applicable performance year is made to active employees. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.

For each PSU granted on or after 1/1/2010, terms differ depending on whether your employment
terminated due to the sale of your division or otherwise in an involuntary termination.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010 

12 

If your employment is terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary, division or joint venture, the
following portion of your PSU awards will be distributed at the time distributed to active
employees, based on actual performance: one-third if your Separation Date is on or after the grant
date but before the first anniversary of the grant date; two-thirds if your Separation Date is on
or after the first anniversary of the grant date but before the second anniversary of the grant
date; and all if your Separation Date is on or after the second anniversary of the grant date.

If your employment terminates in an other involuntary termination and your Separation Date occurs

on or after the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your PSU
grant generally will vest and become distributable to you at the same time as if your
employment had continued and based on actual performance; the remainder of the grant will
expire on your Separation Date; or 

before the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, the entire grant will expire on
your Separation Date. 

See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any. 

If you have any question about your stock options, RSUs or PSUs, you can call the Support Center at
1-866-MERCK-HD (1-866-637-2543).

* * *

The following describes the terms and conditions of certain MSD benefit plans and programs as
they apply to employees whose employment with the Employer terminates for any reason. For
additional information, see the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification).

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010 

13 

Dependent Care Reimbursement Account 

Your participation in the Dependent Care Reimbursement Account ( DCRA ) ends on your Separation
Date. Eligible expenses incurred throughout the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs
(even after employment with the Employer ends) can be reimbursed but only up to the amount actually
contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue
Shield by April 15 th  of the year following the year in which your Separation Date
occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be
forfeited.

Financial Planning 

Your company-paid financial planning benefit will continue through the end of the calendar year in
which your Separation Date occurs.

Flexible Benefits Program 

The Flexible Benefits Program consists of the following MSD plans and programs: medical, dental,
vision, health care and dependent care reimbursement accounts, life insurance (including basic and
optional term life, dependent term life, accidental death and dismemberment and prior to January 1,
2011, survivor income protection), long term care and long term disability. Your participation in
these plans ends as described elsewhere in this communication. However, a full month of
contribution/premium for your coverage under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be
deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.

Health Care Reimbursement Account 

Your participation in the Health Care Reimbursement Account ( HCRA ) ends on your Separation Date,
unless you elect to continue to participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the
calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If you elect to continue participation in HCRA
under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis. Eligible expenses
incurred while you participate in HCRA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date
occurs can be reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your
participation in HCRA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter how much money is left in the account.
Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and
while you are a participant in HCRA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15
of the year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the
account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010 

14 

Long Term Care 

If you elected coverage under MSD s Long Term Care Plan for you (or your spouse or same-sex
domestic partner), that coverage will end on your Separation Date. However, if you want to
continue coverage without interruption, you must contact CNA (the insurer) and pay your first
quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after the last day of the month in which your Separation
Date occurs. For more information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at
1-800-528-4582.

Long Term Disability 

Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan will end on the last day of the month in which
your Separation Date occurs. In other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week eligibility
period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to be eligible for LTD benefits.
If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan
on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the Long Term
Disability Plan. However, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the Special Separation Program
will act as an offset from benefits payable under the Long Term Disability Plan (meaning the LTD
benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).

Pension 

If you have at least 5 years of Vesting Service (as that term is defined in the Retirement Plan) as
of your Separation Date, you will be a  terminated vested  participant in the Retirement Plan.
This means that your employment will have terminated before you were eligible to  retire  from
active service with the Employer (generally, age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service (as
that term is defined in the Retirement Plan)) and that you have a  vested  pension under the
Retirement Plan.

If you are a  terminated vested  participant, your benefits under the Retirement Plan  must 
begin no later than the first day of the month following age 65 after your employment terminates.
However, you can start receiving a reduced benefit on the first day of any month after you reach
age 55. The early payment reduction for a  terminated vested  participant is an  actuarial 
reduction. That is, your life expectancy and certain other actuarial assumptions are used in
calculating the reduction amount. You should expect this to reduce your benefits substantially
because by commencing your benefit early, you receive benefits earlier and for a longer period. A
table illustrating examples of actuarial reductions from the age 65 benefit and a more detailed
explanation of the benefits for  terminated vested  participants can be found in the Salaried
Retirement Plan section of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material
modification). If you do not have at least 5 years of

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010 

15 

Vesting Service as of your Separation Date, you will not be eligible for a benefit under the
Retirement Plan.

After you leave the Employer, if you are entitled to a vested benefit from the Retirement Plan,
you ll receive a statement that will tell you what your life income will be at age 65. This will
be sent to you within approximately one year from your Separation Date. If any portion of your
benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of MSD, there is
an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit
payable from two different plans generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one
plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).

Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement
Plan purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your
Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes.

Sales Incentive Plan 

If you are a participant in a sales incentive plan of Merck or its subsidiaries, including the
Employer, on your Separation Date, your eligibility to be paid a bonus, if any, will be determined
under the terms and conditions of the plan in which you are a participant.

Savings Plan 

Any Separation Pay you receive under the Special Separation Program is not Base Pay and may not be
contributed to the Savings Plan. A pro-rata deduction will be made to the Savings Plan based on
the percentage of your monthly base pay you receive for the month in which your Separation Date
occurs. If you have a plan loan and do not repay it within 45 days of your Separation Date, the
loan will be declared in default and reported as a taxable distribution to the Internal Revenue
Service.

You generally may receive a final distribution from the Savings Plan at any time after your
Separation Date. However, if your account balance is $5,000 or less, your account balance
automatically will be distributed to you soon after your Separation Date. If, upon reaching age
65, you have not previously elected to receive your benefits, your account balance will be
distributed to you without regard to its amount. Review the information in the Salaried Savings
Plan section of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification)
for additional information on Receiving a Final Distribution.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010 

16 

Short Term Disability 

Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ends on your
Separation Date. If you are disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits under the Short
Term Disability Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the
terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the
Special Separation Program will act as an offset from benefits payable under the Short Term
Disability Plan (meaning the STD benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay). Where state law does
not permit such offsets to be made to STD benefits (or where MSD in its sole and absolute
discretion determines it is easier for the Employer to administer), STD benefits will instead act
as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Employer under the Special Separation
Program (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD benefits).

Travel Accident 

Your coverage under the Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.

Vacation Pay 

You will be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your
Separation Date. Conversely, you must reimburse MSD for any vacation you used prior to your
Separation Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date. Any such amounts to be
reimbursed may be deducted from Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan.

Vision 

Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date
occurs. You will be given the opportunity to continue this benefit in accordance with COBRA for up
to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the required premiums.

* * * 

The Special Separation Program described here currently is scheduled to be in effect for 
 Separations From Service that occur from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. MSD retains
the right (to the extent permitted by law) to amend or terminate the Special Separation Program and
any benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any time. However, following a
 change in control  of Merck (as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation
Benefits Plan, as it may be 

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010 

17 

amended from time to time), certain limitations apply to MSD s ability to amend or terminate this
and other benefit plans. 

While it has no current intention to do so, MSD also may extend, decrease or enhance, the Special 
 Separation Program in the future. If you sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation
Letter Return Date, any later amendment or termination will not decrease or increase the amount of
Separation Pay you are eligible to receive under the Special Separation Program. 

Notwithstanding anything in the Special Separation Program to the contrary, benefits under the 
 Program that are subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be
adjusted to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A. MSD will take any and all steps it determines
are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under the Special Separation
Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or
eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc. 

Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following the 
 termination of employment of a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or
any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by
compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Special Separation Program to the
contrary, if a Covered Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to the
extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments will
be made during the six-month period following termination of employment. Instead, amounts that
would otherwise have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without
interest, as soon as administratively feasible following the end of such six-month period after
termination of employment. 

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010 

18 

Glossary of Definitions  

As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.

Basic Employee Group Term Life Coverage  is (i) prior to January 1, 2011, 1x base pay for those
who are considered New Format and 2x base pay (with the 1 st  $20,000 company-paid and the
remainder up to 2x base pay employee paid at .25/1,000) for those who are considered Old Format and
(ii) on and after January 1, 2011, 1x base pay.

Credited Service  is as defined in the Retirement Plan.

Employer  means individually and collectively, Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., Merck Holdings, Inc.,
Merck and Company Incorporated, KBI Enterprises, Inc., Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC, Merck HDAC
Research, LLC, Abmaxis, Inc., Glycofi, Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

Merck  means Merck   Co., Inc., ultimate parent of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

MSD  means Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

MSD Benefits Book  means summary plan descriptions of various employee benefit plans sponsored by
MSD (formerly known as the Merck Benefits Book).

Retirement Plan  means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of MSD.

Separation Benefits Plan  means the MSD Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees

Separation Date  means a Separated Employee s last day of employment with the Employer.

Separated Employees  are certain nonunionized employees of the Employer

(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as that term is defined in the Separation
Benefits Plan) on or between January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011; and

(2) who, as of their Separation Date, is:

Less than age 49 or 

At least age 49 but not yet age 64 with less than nine years of Credited
Service 

Separated Employees are only those employees who are designated by MSD as  Separated Employees. 
 Separated Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not
constitute a Separation From Service as determined by MSD, including employees who resign for any
reason.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010 

19 

Separation Letter  means the MSD-provided letter that will describe the Special Separation Program
benefits and include a release of claims against Merck and its subsidiaries and affiliates,
including the Employer and may include such other terms such as non-solicitation and
non-competition provisions, as MSD determines.

Separation Letter Return Date  is the date stated in the Separation Letter by which Separated
Employees must sign and return it to MSD.

Separation Pay Period  is the number of full or partial workweeks for which a Separated Employee
is being paid Separation Pay.

Special Separation Program  means the separation benefits that Separated Employees receive if they
sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to them, do not revoke) the Separation Letter.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010 

20 

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.12>
 4
 y87773exv10w12.htm
 EX-10.12

exv10w12 

Exhibit 10.12 

MSD 

SPECIAL SEPARATION PROGRAM 

FOR 

BRIDGED  EMPLOYEES 

Eligible Employees: Employees of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. (and certain of its subsidiaries)
who are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement and: 

(1) Who Experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or
between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2011; and 

(2) Who as of their last day of employment (Separation Date), are 

at least 49 years of age but not yet age 55 and have at least 9 years of Credited
Service; or  

at least 55 years of age but not yet age 65* and have at least 9 years of Credited
Service but do not have 10 years of Credited Service; or  

at least 64 years of age but not yet age 65* and have less than 9 years of Credited
Service  

* For those who are at least age 65 with at least 9 but less than 10 years of Credited
Service, see the brochure applicable to  Separated Retirement Eligible  Employees. 

Effective Date: As of October 1, 2010 

Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

This document summarizes the benefits for which a  Bridge-Eligible Employee  may be eligible
under the Special Separation Program and other employee benefit plans and programs of Merck Sharp  
Dohme Corp. ( MSD ). Unless otherwise noted below, the terms and conditions of MSD s employee
benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee s termination of employment from the Employer
are as described in the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable
summaries of material modification) previously provided to you or provided to you with this
Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the applicable sections of the MSD Benefits Book) may be
amended from time to time. (A copy of the applicable sections of the MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) can be obtained on
line at  http://hr.merck.com  or
 www.merck.com/benefits  or by calling the Merck Benefits Service Center at 1-800-666-3725).
However, to the extent that the terms below differ from those described in the applicable sections
of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification), this
communication constitutes a summary of material modifications and should be kept with that book.

Bridge-Eligible Employees  are certain nonunionized employees of the Employer

(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan)
on or between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2011; and

(2) who as of their last day of employment with the Employer (the  Separation Date ), are

at least 49 years of age but not yet age 55 and have at least 9 years
of Credited Service; or 

at least 55 years of age but not yet age 65 and have at least 9 years
of Credited Service but do not have 10 years of Credited Service; or 

at least 64 years of age but not yet age 65 and have less than 9
years of Credited Service (as defined in the Retirement Plan). 

Bridge-Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by MSD as  Bridge-Eligible
Employees.   Bridge-Eligible Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any
way that does not constitute a Separation From Service as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan
as determined by MSD, including employees who resign for any reason. Benefits described in this
Brochure only apply to Bridge-Eligible Employees and do not apply to any other employees of Merck
or its subsidiaries or affiliates, including the Employer.

If you have been designated as a Bridge-Eligible Employee, MSD will provide you with a separation
letter (the  Separation Letter ) that will describe the Special Separation Program benefits for
which you are eligible and will include a release of legal claims against Merck and its
subsidiaries and affiliates, including the Employer, and may also include other terms, such as
non-solicitation and non-

Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

1 

competition provisions, as MSD in its sole discretion decides to include. In order for you to
retire under the Retirement Plan as of your Separation Date and to receive the benefits under the
Special Separation Program, you must sign and return the Separation Letter by the date stated in
the letter (the  Separation Letter Return Date ) and, if a revocation period is applicable to you,
not revoke the letter within the revocation period.

Bridge-Eligible Employees who sign, return and, if a revocation period is applicable, do not revoke
the Separation Letter shall be treated as retired under the Retirement Plan and referred to as
 Bridged Employees. 

Special Separation Program 

All benefits under this Special Separation Program are contingent upon the Bridge-Eligible
Employee signing (and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoking) the Separation Letter.
They consist of:

Separation Pay 

Outplacement Services 

A pro-rata portion of certain early retirement subsidies under the Retirement Plan
( Pension Bridge ) and treatment as a retiree under the Retirement Plan 

Medical and dental benefits 

For Bridge-Eligible Employees with at least 9 years of Credited
Service (as defined by the Retirement Plan) as of their Separation
Dates) Treatment as a retiree for purposes of medical, dental benefits 

For Bridge-Eligible Employees who have less than 9 years of Credited
Service as of their Separation Dates Eligibility for continued medical and dental
benefits for a period 

Treatment as a retiree for purposes of unexercised stock options and restricted stock
units and performance stock units 

Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year
in which his or her Separation Date occurs if his or her Separation Date occurs after June
30 and on or before December 31 of that performance year 

Separation Pay and Outplacement Benefits are described in the Separation Plan SPD distributed with
this Brochure.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

2 

This Brochure describes:

the additional benefits offered under the Special Separation Program that are not
described in the Separation Plan SPD: 

Pension Bridge; 

treatment as a retiree for purposes of medical and dental benefits (provided that,
for retiree healthcare benefits, the Bridge-Eligible Employees would have had at least
9 years of Credited Service (as defined by the Retirement Plan) as of their Separation
Dates); 

treatment as a retiree for purposes of stock options, restricted stock units and
performance stock units; 

eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance
year in which his or her Separation Date occurs; 

the benefits for those Bridge-Eligible Employees who do not sign, or, if a revocation
period is applicable to them, who sign and later revoke, the Separation Letter; and 

the terms and conditions of certain Merck or MSD benefit plans and programs as they
apply to Bridge-Eligible Employees without regard to whether they sign the Separation
Letter. 

Retirement Plan   Pension Bridge 

Terminated Vested    If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter 

By definition, as of the Separation Date, Bridge-Eligible Employees are not eligible for early or
normal retirement under the terms of the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees. So, on your
Separation Date, if you are not a Bridged Employee (one who has signed and, if a revocation period
is applicable to you, not revoked the Separation Letter) and you have at least 5 years of Vesting
Service (as that term is defined in the Retirement Plan), you will be a  terminated vested 
participant in the Retirement Plan for all purposes and will stop accruing additional Credited
Service (as that term is defined in the Retirement Plan). This means that your employment will
have terminated after you are vested and before you were eligible for early or normal retirement
under the Retirement Plan (generally, at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service,
or at least age 65 without regard to years of service). If you are less than 65 and your
employment terminates before you have at least 5 years of Vesting Service, you are not vested and
have no entitlement under the Retirement Plan; you are not considered  terminated vested. 

If you are a  terminated vested  participant, your benefits under the Retirement Plan  must 
begin no later than the first day of the month following age 65. However, you can start receiving
a reduced benefit on the first day of any month after you reach age 55. Your benefit will be
reduced to reflect early payment of your benefits. The early payment reduction for a  terminated
vested  participant

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

3 

is an  actuarial  reduction. That is, your life expectancy and certain other actuarial assumptions
are used in calculating the reduction amount for each year prior to age 65 that the benefits begin.
You should expect this to reduce your benefits substantially because by commencing your benefit
early, you receive benefits earlier and for a longer period. A table illustrating examples of
actuarial reductions from the age 65 benefit and a more detailed explanation of the benefits for
 terminated vested  participants can be found in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the
current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification).

After you leave the Employer, if you are entitled to a vested benefit from the Retirement Plan,
you ll receive a statement that will tell you what your life income will be at age 65. This will
be sent to you within approximately one year from your Separation Date. If any portion of your
benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of MSD, there is
an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit
payable from two different plans generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one
plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).

Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement
Plan purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your
Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes.

Special Separation Program   Pension  Bridge    If You Sign the Separation Letter 

For Retirement Plan purposes, as a Bridged Employee (one who has signed and, if a revocation period
is applicable, not revoked the Separation Letter), you will be considered to have retired from
active service with the Employer on your Separation Date and will be entitled to a pro-rata portion
of your early retirement subsidies. For those who are not yet 55, you will be considered to have a
 deferred  pension on the terms described below. A  deferred  pension benefit is payable no
earlier than the first of the month following the participant s 55 th  birthday.

Early Retirement Subsidy . Your benefit from the Retirement Plan will be based on the Credited
Service accrued as of the Separation Date and will be payable at age 65; however, you can begin to
receive your benefits on the first day of any month after you reach age 55. If you commence your
benefit at or after age 55 but before age 62, the benefit will still be reduced. The amount of the
reduction is less than the actuarial reduction that applies to  terminated vested  participants and
more than the reduction that applies to early retirees who are not Bridged Employees.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

4 

The Retirement Plan provides that the benefits for early retirees are reduced by 0.25% for each
month (i.e., 3% for each year) that they begin before age 62. Bridged Employees receive a pro-rata
portion (the  Pro-Rata Fraction ) of the enhancement provided by the early retirement subsidies.
The Pro-Rata Fraction equals the percentage of the employee s Credited Service on his/her
Separation Date divided by the Credited Service that employee would have had if employment had
continued until he/she was first eligible to be treated as an early retiree. For purposes of this
fraction, Credited Service is limited to 35 years for both Credited Service at separation and the
Credited Service had employment continued to his/her first day of eligibility for treatment as an
early retiree.

For example, assume an employee is 49 years old with 9 years of Credited Service on his Separation
Date. He would have been first eligible to be treated as an early retiree when he attained age 55,
when he would have had 15 years of Credited Service. The Pro-Rata Fraction in this example would
be 9/15.

As another example, assume a Bridged Employee is 57 with 9 years of Credited Service on her
Separation Date. This employee would have been first eligible to be treated as an early retiree
when she had 10 years of Credited Service, so the pro-rata portion would be 9/10.

To calculate the benefit that will be paid, the formula is

Pro-Rata Fraction TIMES the participant s accrued benefit as of the Separation Date
payable with early retirement subsidies 

PLUS (1 MINUS the Pro-Rata Fraction) TIMES the participant s accrued benefit at
Separation Date actuarially reduced for early commencement 

Here s an example of how this formula will work. Assume an employee is 52 years old at separation
with 23 years of Credited Service. His earliest retirement age will be 55, at which time he would
have had 26 years of Credited Service, so his Pro-Rata Fraction is 23/26, or 88.46%. Assume his
accrued benefit that is, the age 65 annuity paid every month for the rest of his life is $1,000.
If he receives his pension at age 55, as an early retiree he would receive $790. As a terminated
vested participant, he would receive $340.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

5 

Under the formula, he would receive

88.46% Times $790 equals $698.83 
Plus 
(1-88.46% = 11.54%) Times $340 equals $39.24 
Equals 
$738.07 as an annuity, payable at age 55.

The $738.07 annuity value could be converted into any of the forms of benefit available under the
Retirement Plan.

Rule of 85 Transition Benefit . Bridged Employees who, if their employment with the Employer had
continued would have qualified for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of their
Separation Date will receive the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit when benefits from the Retirement
Plan begin. In other words, this enhancement applies if on your Separation Date you are at least
53 years old, and the sum of your age and Credited Service is at least 81. The Rule of 85
Transition Benefit will be payable upon commencement of your pension benefits, even if the date of
commencement of pension benefits is earlier than the date you would otherwise have qualified for
the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit, and is included in the early retirement subsidies that are
subject to the Pro-Rata Fraction described above.

The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit is fully described in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the
current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification). In general, the
Rule of 85 was phased out in July of 1995. It had provided that an employee whose employment
terminated after age 55, when age and service equaled at least 85, would be eligible for an
unreduced age 65 benefit instead of the normal early retirement subsidy (i.e., a 3% per year
reduction for each year that benefit payments begin prior to age 62). The Rule of 85 Transition
Benefit preserved 100% of the Rule of 85 for any employee who was 50 or older in July of 1995, with
90% preserved for then 49 year old employees, 80% for then 48 year old employees, etc. No benefit
was preserved for employees then 40 or younger.

For example, assume a Bridged Employee was born June 30, 1954. On July 1, 1995, this employee was
41 so 10% of her Rule of 85 benefit was preserved. Assume further that her Separation Date is
January 1, 2009 (she ll be 54 years and 6 months old) and that she then has 30 years of Credited
Service. If her employment had continued until she attained age 55, she would have been entitled
to the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit as of July 1, 2009 (her age and service as of that date would
have exceeded 85). This employee may begin to receive her benefits (including her Rule of 85
Transition Benefit, i.e., 10% of the Rule of 85 benefit) from the Retirement Plan on July 1, 2009,
the first day of the month after she reaches age 55. For this Bridged Employee, her  early
retirement subsidies  as described above that are subject to the Pro-Rata Fraction would include
the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

6 

On the other hand, assume instead that a Bridged Employee would be 52 on his Separation Date. No
matter how many years of Credited Service he had, he is not eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition
Benefit under the Special Separation Program because he would not have been entitled to the Rule of
85 Transition Benefit within two years of his Separation Date had he remained an employee of the
Employer. In other words, he would not have reached age 55 and had 85 points within 2 years of his
Separation Date had his employment continued.

Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit . Bridged Employees also will be eligible for the Social
Security Bridge Transition Benefit under the Special Separation Program. The Social Security
Bridge Transition Benefit is fully described in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the current
MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification). In general, the Social
Security Bridge Transition Benefit reduces the offset for Social Security Benefits under the
Retirement Plan by providing a temporary monthly supplement prior to age 62. The benefit was
eliminated in July 1995 but was preserved for employees then at least age 50, with 90% preserved
for employees then 49, 80% for employees then 48, etc. The benefit was not preserved for employees
then 40 or younger. Because this benefit does not require any particular number of points, you may
be eligible for the Social Security Transition Benefit even if you are not eligible for the Rule of
85 Transition Benefit.

Death of a Bridged Employee . If you die after you sign the Separation Letter but before you begin
to receive your benefits from the Retirement Plan, your spouse (or estate in the case of any
unmarried participant) will receive an annuity or a lump sum. If you die before age 55, you will
be eligible for the Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit. If you were eligible for the Rule
of 85 Transition Benefit on your Separation Date, you will not be eligible for this benefit if you
die before you reach age 55. The Pro-Rata Fraction described above would be applied as described
above. The benefit is calculated as though you had elected a joint and 50% survivor annuity with
your spouse (if you re unmarried, as though you had a spouse the same age as you) on the day before
you died. The lump sum is the actuarial equivalent of just the 50% survivor portion of the
benefit that is, taking into account your death. The annuity or lump sum is payable only after
your spouse (or administrator of your estate) applies for the benefit. Bridged Employees under the
Special Separation Program will not be charged for the qualified pre-retirement spousal annuity
fully described in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the current MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification).

Other Information . Except as described here, you will be treated as a terminated vested
participant for Retirement Plan purposes. For example, you may not receive a  disability
retirement  as discussed in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the current MSD Benefits Book
(and applicable summaries of material modification).

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

7 

The special provisions in the Retirement Plan regarding Bridged Employees are subject to certain
discrimination tests under tax laws. Our actuaries have reviewed data on a preliminary basis and
concluded that these special provisions satisfy those tests under most scenarios. However, if the
provisions in practice happen to fail the tests, the benefits described here will be paid, to the
extent necessary, from assets of MSD outside the Retirement Plan. Benefits from the Retirement
Plan have tax advantages that payments outside it do not. You will be notified as soon as possible
if this provision affects you.

After you leave the Employer, if you are entitled to a vested benefit from the Retirement Plan,
you ll receive a statement that will tell you what your life income will be at age 65. This will
be sent to you within approximately one year from your Separation Date. If any portion of your
benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of MSD, there is
an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit
payable from two different plans generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one
plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).

Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement
Plan purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your
Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes.

Split Election . Bridged Employees whose pension benefits are payable in part from the Supplemental
Retirement Plan who wish to make an election with respect to the retirement benefits under that
plan may do so in accordance with that plan by contacting the Support Center at 1-866-MERCK-HD
(1-866-637-2543) to request the appropriate paperwork if eligible.

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental 

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter 

If you don t sign the Separation Letter (or if a revocation period is applicable to you, you revoke
the Separation Letter), your medical and dental coverage options in effect on your Separation Date
will continue under MSD s medical and dental plans (as they may be amended from time to time) until
the end of the month in which your Separation Date occur. At the end of that period, you will be
eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your
Separation Date. If you have no medical and/or dental coverage under MSD s plans on your
Separation Date, you will not have medical

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

8 

and/or dental coverage, as applicable, after your Separation Date nor will you be eligible to elect
such coverage under COBRA.

Special Separation Program   Retiree Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   If You
Have at least Nine Years of Credited Service as of Your Separation Date and You Sign the Separation
Letter 

Under the Special Separation Program, if you have at least nine years of Credited Service on your
Separation Date and you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke) the
Separation Letter, you will be eligible to participate in retiree medical and dental coverage under
MSD s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) as of the first day of the month after your
Separation Date (even if your Separation Date is not the first day of a month). Your active
employee coverage will continue until the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs.
Your retiree healthcare benefits will commence as of the first of the month following your
Separation Date ( Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date ).

You will be automatically enrolled in retiree dental under the comprehensive coverage option and in
retiree medical coverage under the same coverage option in which you were enrolled as an active
employee on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, provided that coverage option
is available to you as a retiree; if that medical coverage option is not available, you will be
automatically enrolled in the plan s default option. Coverage under your retiree medical and
dental coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible dependents who were your covered
dependents under the applicable plans on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date.

You are permitted to add eligible dependents or drop covered dependents and/or change medical
coverage options retroactive to the date your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you
notify the Merck Benefits Service Center of such change(s) within 30 days after your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will only be made prospectively.

Note that only those eligible dependents who are your  Dependents of Record  as of your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date can be eligible for dependent coverage under your retiree healthcare
coverage, subject to any special enrollment rights under HIPAA.  Be sure to register your eligible
dependents as  Dependents of Record  with the Merck Benefit Service Center within 30 days after
your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. If an eligible dependent is not timely registered as
your  Dependent of Record , he/she will never be eligible for dependent coverage under your MSD
retiree healthcare coverage, subject to any special enrollment rights under HIPAA. Eligible
dependents who are your covered dependents on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, are
automatically registered as Dependents of Record.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

9 

You can  opt-out  of retiree coverage, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is
generally limited to annual open enrollment (with the following January 1 as the re-enrollment
effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if you are covered under and lose other
coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center to re-enroll in MSD retiree coverage
within 30 days of the loss of your other coverage.

You must pay the applicable retiree premiums for retiree healthcare coverage beginning on your
Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. You will receive an invoice from Fidelity that indicates the
premium due for your retiree coverage. If you fail to pay the premium required for retiree medical
and dental coverage in the time and manner specified on the invoice, you will be deemed to have
opted out of coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as described above.

For purposes of determining the retiree medical and dental premiums, a Bridged Employee

will have the number of points that is the sum of his/her age and years of adjusted
service as recorded on MSD s records (from age 40 for those subject to the  Rule of
88  all adjusted service for those subject to the  Rule of 92 ) as of his/her
Separation Date; provided however, if such sum is less than 65, then the Bridged
Employee is deemed to have 65 points; and 

will pay premiums for medical coverage in accordance with the premium schedule for
the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88 , as applicable, in effect on his/her Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date, as the premium schedule may be amended from time to
time. 

To determine whether the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88  applies to you and to see the
premiums applicable to those schedules, see the Reference Library on Fidelity s netbenefits
website. 

Continuation of retiree medical and dental coverages for Bridged Employees under the Special
Separation Program is subject to the same early forfeiture provisions applicable to separated
employees as described in the Separation Plan SPD. The forfeiture provisions will apply for the
Separation Pay Period only.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

10 

Special Separation Program   If You Are 64 and Would Have Less than 9 Years of Credited Service as
of Your Separation Date and You Sign the Separation Letter 

If, you (a) are 64 and have less than nine years of Credited Service on your Separation Date and
(b) sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the
Separation Letter), then, under the Special Separation Program, you will be eligible for continued
medical and dental coverage (not retiree coverage) under MSD s medical and dental plans (as they
may be amended from time to time) for the Separation Pay Period as more fully described in the
Separation Plan SPD. If the Separation Pay Period is less than six months, you may continue
medical and dental coverage for six months. Your contributions to continue such coverage will be
the same as the contributions for active employees, as they may change from time to time and will
be payable to MSD (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by MSD from time to time. If
you do not pay the required contributions to MSD (or its designee) in the time and manner specified
by MSD from time to time, your coverage will be terminated and it will not be reinstated. Provided
you have paid the required contributions to continue coverage, at the end of the Separation Pay
Period or, if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, then at the end of the 6-month
period during which medical and dental coverages are provided, you may elect to continue your
coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to an additional 18 months.

Continuation of medical and dental coverages under the Special Separation Program for
Bridge-Eligible Employees under this paragraph is subject to the same early forfeiture provisions
applicable to separated employees as described in the Separation Plan SPD.

Life Insurance 

Regardless of when your Separation Date occurs and whether or not you sign the Separation
Letter, your accidental death and dismemberment coverage ends on your Separation Date. In
addition, a full month s premium for your life insurance coverage in effect on your Separation Date
may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.

Life Insurance   If Your Separation Date Occurs on or before December 30, 2010 

And you Do Not Sign the Separation Letter 

If your Separation Date occurs on or before December 30, 2010 and you do not sign the Separation
Letter (or if a revocation period is applicable to you, you revoke the Separation Letter), your
basic and optional employee group term life, dependent life, and survivor income protection will
continue for 31 days after your

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

11 

Separation Date. After this 31-day period you may elect to continue these coverages at the level
in effect on your Separation Date under MSD s Life Insurance Plan (as it may be amended from time
to time). You may continue these coverages at your cost for up to the earlier of 30 months from
your Separation Date or age 65. If you wish to continue your survivor income protection and/or
your dependent life coverage, you must continue your employee group term life (basic and optional).
Please note that if you have  old format  basic life insurance and/or survivor income coverage in
effect on December 31, 2010, that coverage will terminate at midnight on that date and an amount of
coverage will map to an amount of optional life insurance effective January 1, 2011, which amount
will be added to your then current optional life insurance. See your annual enrollment
communications for 2011 for more information on coverage mapping. To continue your life insurance
coverage(s) you must contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) within 31 days
after your Separation Letter Return Date and you must pay the applicable premium in the time and
manner specified by MSD. If you fail to pay the premium in the time and manner specified by MSD,
your coverage(s) will be terminated and will not be reinstated. If you are interested in
continuing your coverage(s), contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) for more
information.

And you sign the Separation Letter 

If your Separation Date occurs on or before December 30, 2010 and you sign the Separation Letter
(and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), you will be
considered a retiree for life insurance purposes under MSD s Life Insurance Plan (as it may be
amended from time to time) as of your Separation Date, with retiree coverage to begin on the first
day of the month after your Separation Date. As a retiree, your employee group term life insurance
coverage equal to 1x base pay (or 2x base pay if you have  Old Format ) will continue at no cost to
you. This amount will reduce by 25% of the amount of your coverage starting on the first day of
the month following your Separation Date, and by an equal dollar amount on the anniversary of that
date, until the third anniversary of that date, when no balance remains. You have the right to
convert the amount of reduction to an individual policy. See the Life Insurance Plan section of
the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification) for information
on conversion. As a retiree, you may continue your employee group term life insurance in excess of
1x base pay (2x if you are  Old Format ), dependent life and/or survivor income protection
(collectively  Optional Coverages ) in effect on your Separation Date until age 65 by paying the
applicable premiums in the time and manner required by MSD. Please note that if you have survivor
income coverage in effect on December 31, 2010, that coverage will terminate at midnight on that
date and an amount of coverage will map to an amount of optional life insurance effective January
1, 2011, which amount will be added to your then current optional life insurance. See your annual
enrollment communications for 2011 for more information on

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

12 

coverage mapping. If you fail to pay the premium required to continue your coverage in the time and
manner specified by MSD, your coverage(s) will be terminated and they will not be reinstated.

Continuation of basic life insurance as a retiree under the Special Separation Program is subject
to the same early forfeiture provisions applicable to separated employees as described in the
Separation Plan SPD. If your basic life insurance ends as a result of forfeiture, your Optional
Coverages will also cease. See the life insurance section of the MSD Benefits Book (and applicable
summaries of material modification) for description of conversion rights.

If your Separation Date Occurs on or after December 31, 2010 Whether or Not You Sign the Separation
Letter.   If your Separation Date occurs on or after December 31, 2010 whether or not you sign the
Separation Letter, you are not eligible for retiree life insurance. Your basic group term life
insurance equal to 1x base pay will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this
31-day period you may elect to convert this coverage to an individual policy with Prudential,
subject to certain limitations. Your optional group term life insurance (including any amount of
 old format  basic life and/or survivor income protection coverage that is mapped to your optional
life insurance coverage effective January 1, 2011 as described in the annual enrollment
communications for 2011) and dependent life insurance will continue for 31 days after your
Separation Date. During this 31-day period you may elect to convert or port this coverage to an
individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain limitations. Contact the Merck Benefits
Service Center (1-800-666-3725) or Prudential for more information.

The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and life insurance
benefits offered under the Special Separation Program to the normal plan provisions.

Regular Plan Provisions  
       
      Special Separation Program  

Medical, Dental,  
Prescription Drug 

Benefits continue
to the end of the month
in which your
Separation Date occurs;
eligible for COBRA
afterward 

You will be treated
as a retiree with
applicable
contributions if you
would have at least
9 years of credited
service as of your
Separation Date  

If you have less
than 9 years of
credited service as
of your Separation
Date, then benefits
continue to the end
of the month in
which the Separation
Pay Period ends (or
a minimum of 6
months), provided
you pay the
applicable employee
contributions in the
time and manner
specified by MSD (or
its designee);
thereafter eligible
for COBRA  

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

13 

Regular Plan Provisions  
       
      Special Separation Program  

Basic Employee
Term  Life Insurance
(New  Format-maximum   1x base pay; prior
to  January 1, 2011,
if Old  Format -2x
base pay) 

If your Separation
Date occurs on or
before December 30,   2010          coverage at
level in effect on
Separation Date
continues for 31 days,
provided  old format 
coverage is reduced to
1x base pay due to
mapping of  old format 
coverage effective
January 1, 2011 as
described in annual
enrollment materials
for 2011; and   

       you may elect
to continue coverage
for up to 30 months
(but not beyond age 65)
from your Separation
Date at your cost under
the Merck Life
Insurance Plan. 

If Separation Date
occurs on or before
December 30, 2010:  Treated as a retiree
with 1x base pay
coverage (2x if old
format) reducing
over 3 years to no
coverage.  

If your Separation Date
occurs on or after
December 31, 2010,
coverage equal to 1x
base pay continues for
31 days. 

If your Separation
Date occurs on or
after December 31,
2010, coverage equal
to 1x base pay
continues for 31 days.  

In either event, you
may be eligible to
convert to an
individual policy with
Prudential after
coverage under the
Merck Life Insurance
Plan ends. 

In either event, you
may be eligible to
convert to an
individual policy
with Prudential
after coverage under
the Merck Life
Insurance Plan ends.  

Optional  
Employee Group Term  
Life, Dependent Life   and prior to January
1, 2011 Survivor
Income 

If your Separation
Date occurs on before
or after December 30,  2010, coverage at level
in effect on your
Separation Date
continues for 31 days,
subject to mapping of
 old format  and
survivor income
coverage effective
January 1, 2011 as
described in annual
enrollment materials
for 2011. 

If Separation Date
is on or before
December 30, 2010:   Treated as a retiree
  You can continue
optional coverage
(including the
amounts of  old
format  and survivor
income coverage
mapped to optional
coverage effective
January 1, 2011)
under the Merck Life
Insurance Plan at your cost up to age 65  

If your Separation Date
occurs on or before
December 30, 2010, you
may elect to continue
coverage for up to 30  months (but not beyond
age 65) from your
Separation Date at your
cost under the Merck
Life Insurance Plan  

If Separation Date
is on or after
December 31, 2010:  Coverage at level in
effect on your
Separation Date
continues for 31
days, subject to
mapping of  old
format  and survivor
income coverage
effective January 1,
2011 as described in
annual enrollment
materials for 2011.  

You may be eligible to
convert or port to an
individual policy with
Prudential after
coverage under the
Merck Life Insurance
Plan ends.   
       
      You may be eligible
to convert or port
to an individual
policy with
Prudential after
coverage under the
Merck Life Insurance
Plan ends.  

AD D 

No coverage 

No coverage  

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units 

Only employees may receive incentives under Merck s incentive stock plans, including stock
options, restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or performance stock units ( PSUs  therefore, you will
not be eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010

Revised as of October 1, 2010

14 

Outstanding Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs 

If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter    Separated  or  Involuntarily Terminated  for Purposes
of Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs 

Under Merck s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose
employment ends are treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the
employee is considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan. Bridge-Eligible Employees who do not
sign the Separation Letter (or, if a revocation period is applicable, who revoke the Separation
Letter) are not considered retirees under the Retirement Plan. Therefore, if you do not sign the
Separation Letter (or, is a revocation period is applicable to you, you revoke the Separation
Letter), the separation provisions (not the retirement provisions) applicable to stock options,
RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives granted to you prior to 2010 that you hold
on your Separation Date and the sale/involuntary termination provisions (not the retirement
provisions) applicable to stock options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives
granted to you in 2010 and thereafter that you hold on your Separation Date. Provisions may differ
based on the grants.  IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF
INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .

Stock Options (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms) 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2001, the
separation terms are:

Vested options will expire upon the earlier of (i) the day before the one-year anniversary
of your Separation Date or (ii) the original 10-year expiration date. 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2001 through 2009, the
separation terms are:

Unvested options will vest on the Separation Date. You will then have two years to
exercise them and previously vested grants. All outstanding vested options including
those previously vested will expire on the day before the second anniversary of your
Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier). 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2010 and thereafter
terms differ depending on whether your employment terminated due to the sale of your division or
otherwise in an involuntary termination:

If your employment is terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary, division or
joint venture, options that would have become exercisable within one year of your Separation Date will become exercisable on 

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

15 

your Separation Date and all others immediately expire. All unexercised options will expire on the day
before the first anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original expiration
date, if earlier). 

If your employment terminates due to an other involuntary termination, options that
are unvested on your Separation date will expire on your Separation Date. Options
that are exercisable on your Separation Date will expire on the day before the first
anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier). 

Key R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and other stock option grants may have different
terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.

If on your Separation Date your then outstanding equity is treated as described above and you are
rehired,

stock options granted before 2010 that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire
date will be reinstated to active status as if your employment had not been interrupted,
and 

stock options granted during 2010 and thereafter that are unexercised and outstanding
on your rehire date will continue to be treated as described above. 

RSUs (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms) 

For RSUs granted before 1/1/2010, if you are treated as separated, a pro rata portion of your
annual grants of restricted stock units, if any, generally will vest and become distributable at
the same time as if your employment had continued; the remainder of the grant will expire on your
Separation Date. Different terms may apply to RSUs that were not granted as part of the annual RSU
grants. See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.

For each annual and quarterly RSU grant made on or after 1/1/2010, terms differ depending on
whether your employment terminated due to the sale of your division or otherwise in an involuntary
termination.

If your employment is terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary, division or joint venture, the
following portion of your RSU awards and accrued dividends, if any, will be distributed at the time
distributed to active employees: one-third if your Separation Date is on or after the grant date
but before the first anniversary of the grant date; two-thirds if your Separation Date is on or
after the first anniversary of the grant date but before the second anniversary of the grant date;
and all if your Separation Date is on or after the second anniversary of the grant date.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

16 

If your employment terminates in an other involuntary termination and your Separation Date occurs

On or after the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your RSU
grant generally will vest and become distributable to you (together with any applicable
accrued dividend equivalents) at the same time as if your employment had continued; the
remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date; or 

before the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, the entire grant (together with any
applicable accrued dividend equivalents) will expire on your Separation Date. 

See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.

PSUs (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms) 

For PSUs granted before 1/1/2010, if you are treated as separated, a pro rata portion of your
annual grant of performance share units will be payable if at all when the distribution with
respect to the applicable performance year is made to active employees; the remainder of the grant
will expire on your Separation Date. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if
any.

For each PSU granted on or after 1/1/2010, terms differ depending on whether your employment
terminated due to the sale of your division or otherwise in an involuntary termination.

If your employment is terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary, division or joint venture, the
following portion of your PSU awards will be distributed at the time distributed to active
employees, based on actual performance: one-third if your Separation Date is on or after the grant
date but before the first anniversary of the grant date; two-thirds if your Separation Date is on
or after the first anniversary of the grant date but before the second anniversary of the grant
date; and all if your Separation Date is on or after the second anniversary of the grant date.

If your employment terminates in an other involuntary termination and your Separation Date occurs

on or after the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your PSU
grant generally will vest and become distributable to you at the same time as if your
employment had continued and based on actual performance; the remainder of the grant will
expire on your Separation Date; or 

before the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, the entire grant will expire on
your Separation Date. 

See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

17 

If you have any question about your stock options, restricted stock units or performance stock
units, you can call The Support Center at 1-866-MERCK-HD (1-866-637-2543).

Special Separation Program   If You Sign the Separation Letter    Retired  for Purposes of Stock
Options, RSUs and PSUs 

Under Merck s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose
employment ends are treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the
employee is considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan. If you sign (and, if a revocation
period is applicable to you, do not revoke) the Separation Letter you are considered a retiree
under the Retirement Plan. Therefore, if you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to
you, do not revoke) the Separation Letter, the retirement provisions (not the separation
provisions) applicable to stock options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentive you
hold on your Separation Date. The retirement provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS
YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .

Stock Options (retirement terms) 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2001, the
retirement provisions are:

Vested options: May be exercised until the earlier of (i) the day before the 5 th 
anniversary of your Separation Date (considered your  retirement date ) or (ii) the
original expiration date. 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2001 through 2009, the
retirement provisions are:

Unvested options will vest on the original vesting date and then be exercisable for the
full term of the option, expiring on the original expiration date. Vested options will be
exercisable for then remaining term of the option, expiring on the original expiration
date. 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2010 and thereafter,
the retirement provisions are:

Unvested Options: 

If your Separation Date occurs before the 6-month anniversary
of the option grant date, the options expire on your Separation Date; or 

If your Separation Date occurs on or after the 6-month
anniversary of the option grant date, unvested options will become exercisable
on their original vesting date and remain exercisable until they expire on the
day before the fifth 

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

18 

anniversary of the grant date (or their original expiration date, if earlier). 

Vested Options: Options that are vested on your Separation Date will be
exercisable until they expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the grant
date (or their original expiration date, if earlier). 

Key R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and other stock option grants may have different
terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.

If you are treated as retired, and later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and
outstanding on your rehire date will continue under the retirement terms.

RSUs (retirement terms) 

If you are treated as retired, any annual grants of restricted stock units that were granted at
least 6 months prior to your Separation Date, if any, generally will vest and become distributable
(together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents for grants made in 2010 and thereafter)
as if your employment with the Employer had continued. RSUs granted within 6 months of your
Separation Date will be forfeited (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents for
grants made in 2010 and thereafter). See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if
any.

PSUs (retirement terms) 

If you are treated as retired, a pro rata portion of any annual grant of performance share units
that were granted to you at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date will be payable if at all
when the distribution with respect to the applicable performance year is made to active employees;
the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date. Performance share units, if any,
granted to you within 6 months of your Separation Date will lapse on your Separation Date. See the
term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.

If you have any question about your stock options, RSUs or PSUs, call the Support Center at
1-866-MERCK-HD (1-866-637-2543).

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )  

As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus,
depends on when a Bridged Employee s Separation Date occurs during a performance year. Actual
AIP/EIP bonuses with respect to the performance year immediately preceding the Bridged Employee s
Separation Date may be paid to employees whose employment terminates between January 1 and the time
AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees. No AIP/EIP or special payment in lieu
of a bonus with respect to the performance

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

19 

year in which the Separation Date occurs is payable for any employee separated January 1 through
June 30, inclusive. A special payment in lieu of a bonus is payable under this program with
respect to the performance year in which the Separation Date occurs only for employees whose
Separation Dates occur on or after July 1 and on or before December 31 of that performance year.
For executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for the most recent proxy materials
issued by Merck in connection with the annual meeting of shareholders, the amount of payment in
lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the following principles, but Merck retains complete
discretion to pay more, or less, than those amounts. The Employer reserves the right to treat the
payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments in lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental
wages subject to flat-rate withholding (that is, not taking into account any exemptions).

If Your Separation Date occurs between January 1 and prior to the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for
the prior performance year 

If your Separation Date occurs on or after January 1 and prior to the day AIP/EIP bonuses for the
prior performance year are paid to other MSD employees, you will be eligible for consideration for
an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the prior complete performance year on the same terms and
conditions as other MSD employees. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an
AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid
to other MSD employees or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for
that AIP/EIP performance year, as applicable. Eligibility for consideration for AIP/EIP bonus is
not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter. You will not be eligible for any AIP/EIP
or payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP for the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs.

If Your Separation Date occurs between the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for the prior performance
year and June 30 

If your Separation Date occurs after AIP/EIP bonuses are paid to other MSD employees and on or
before June 30, you will not be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP bonus or the special in
lieu of bonus payment described below whether or not you sign the Separation Letter.

If Your Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31 

If your Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31, a special payment in
lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be
paid only if you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke) the
Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based on the target bonus
applicable to you under the Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program with respect to
the current performance year and the number of full and partial

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

20 

months you worked in the current performance year and is subject to adjustment by Merck in its sole
discretion based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to your documented poor or
extraordinary performance in the current performance year. If you receive a special payment in
lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus, it will be paid to you (less applicable withholding) as soon as
administratively feasible following your Separation Date. However, if you elected to defer your
AIP/EIP bonus, that election will apply to payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.

* * *

The following describes the terms and conditions of certain MSD benefit plans and programs as
they apply to employees whose employment with the Employer terminates for any reason. For
additional information, see the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification).

Dependent Care Reimbursement Account 

Your participation in the Dependent Care Reimbursement Account ( DCRA ) ends on your Separation
Date. Eligible expenses incurred throughout the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs
(even after employment with the Employer ends) can be reimbursed but only up to the amount actually
contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue
Shield by April 15 th  of the year following the year in which your Separation Date
occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be
forfeited.

Financial Planning 

Your company-paid financial planning benefit will continue through the end of the calendar year in
which your Separation Date occurs.

Flexible Benefits Program 

The Flexible Benefits Program consists of the following MSD plans and programs: medical, dental,
vision, health care and dependent care reimbursement accounts, life insurance (including basic and
optional term life, dependent term life, accidental death and dismemberment and prior to January 1,
2011, survivor income protection), long term care and long term disability. Your participation in
these plans ends as described elsewhere in this communication. However, a full month of
contribution/premium for your coverage under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be
deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

21 

Health Care Reimbursement Account 

Your participation in the Health Care Reimbursement Account ( HCRA ) ends on your Separation Date,
unless you elect to continue to participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the
calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If you elect to continue participation in HCRA
under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis. Eligible expenses
incurred while you participate in HCRA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date
occurs can be reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your
participation in HCRA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter how much money is left in the account.
Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and
while you are a participant in HCRA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15
of the year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the
account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.

Long Term Care 

If you elected coverage under MSD s Long Term Care Plan for you (or your spouse or same-sex
domestic partner), that coverage will end on your Separation Date. However, if you want to
continue coverage without interruption, you must contact CNA (the insurer) and pay your first
quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after the last day of the month in which your Separation
Date occurs. For more information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at
1-800-528-4582.

Long Term Disability 

Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan will end on the last day of the month in which
your Separation Date occurs. In other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week eligibility
period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to be eligible for LTD benefits.
If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan
on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the Long Term
Disability Plan. However, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the Special Separation Program
will act as an offset from benefits payable under the Long Term Disability Plan (meaning the LTD
benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).

Sales Incentive Plan 

If you are a participant in a sales incentive plan of Merck or its subsidiaries, including the
Employer, on your Separation Date, your eligibility to be paid a bonus, if any, will be determined
under the terms and conditions of the plan in which you are a participant.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

22 

Savings Plan 

Any Separation Pay you receive under the Special Separation Program is not Base Pay and may not be
contributed to the Savings Plan. A pro-rata deduction will be made to the Savings Plan based on the
percentage of your monthly base pay you receive for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.
If you have a plan loan and do not repay it within 45 days of your Separation Date, the loan will
be declared in default and reported as a taxable distribution to the Internal Revenue Service.

You generally may receive a final distribution from the Savings Plan at any time after your
Separation Date. However, if your account balance is $5,000 or less, your account balance
automatically will be distributed to you soon after your Separation Date. If, upon reaching age 65,
you have not previously elected to receive your benefits, your account balance will be distributed
to you without regard to its amount. Review the information in the Salaried Savings Plan section
of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification) for additional
information on Receiving a Final Distribution.

Short Term Disability 

Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ends on your
Separation Date. If you are disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits under the Short
Term Disability Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the
terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the
Special Separation Program will act as an offset from benefits payable under the Short Term
Disability Plan (meaning the STD benefits will be reduced by the Separation Pay). Where state law
does not permit such offsets to be made to STD benefits (or where the Employer in its sole and
absolute discretion determines it is easier for the Employer to administer), STD benefits will
instead act as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Employer under the Special
Separation Program (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD benefits).

Travel Accident 

Your coverage under the Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.

Vacation Pay 

You will be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your
Separation Date. Conversely, you must reimburse MSD for any vacation you used prior to your
Separation Date that you had not earned as of

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

23 

your Separation Date. Any such amounts to be reimbursed may be deducted from any Separation Pay
paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan.

Vision 

Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date
occurs. You will be given the opportunity to continue this benefit in accordance with COBRA for up
to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the required premiums.

* * * 

The Special Separation Program described here currently is scheduled to be in effect for
Separations From Service that occur from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. MSD retains
the right (to the extent permitted by law) to amend or terminate the Special Separation Program and
any benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any time. However, following a
 change in control  of Merck (as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation
Benefits Plan, as it may be amended from time to time), certain limitations apply to MSD s ability
to amend or terminate this and other benefit plans. In addition, an employee whose employment is
terminated without cause within two years following a  change in control  will also be entitled to
receive the retirement bridge as provided in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation
Benefits Plan. 

While it has no current intention to do so, MSD also may extend, decrease or enhance, the Special
Separation Program in the future. If you sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation
Letter Return Date, any later amendment or termination will not decrease or increase the amount of
Separation Pay you are eligible to receive under the Special Separation Program. 

Notwithstanding anything in the Special Separation Program to the contrary, benefits under the
Program that are subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be
adjusted to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A. MSD will take any and all steps it determines
are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under the Special Separation
Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or
eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc. 

Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six
months following the termination of 

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

24 

employment of a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor
thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by compensation.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Special Separation Program to the contrary, if a Covered
Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to the extent required by Section
409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments will be made during the
six-month period following termination of employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise have
been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without interest, as soon as
administratively feasible following the end of such six-month period after termination of
employment. 

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

25 

Glossary of Definitions 

As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.

Basic Employee Group Term Life Coverage  is (i) prior to January 1, 2011, 1x base pay for those
who are considered New Format and 2x base pay (with the 1 st  $20,000 company-paid and the
remainder up to 2x base pay employee paid at .25/1,000) for those who are considered Old Format and
(ii) on and after January 1, 2011, 1x base pay.

Bridge-Eligible Employees  are employees of the Employer who are not subject to a collective
bargaining agreement and

(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan)
on or between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2011; and

(2) who as of their last day of employment with the Employer (the  Separation Date ), are

at least 49 years of age but not yet age 55 and have at least
9 years of Credited Service; or 

at least 55 years of age but not yet age 65 and have at least
9 years of Credited Service but do not have 10 years of Credited Service; or 

at least 64 years of age but not yet age 65 and have less
than 9 years of Credited Service 

Bridge-Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by MSD as  Bridge-Eligible
Employees.  This Brochure only applies to Bridge-Eligible Employees.

Bridged Employees  are those Bridge-Eligible Employees who sign (and if a revocation period is
applicable to them, do not revoke) the Separation Letter. Bridged Employees are considered retired
under the Retirement Plan.  Bridged Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment
in any way that does not constitute separation as determined by MSD, including employees who resign
for any reason.

Credited Service  is as defined in the Retirement Plan.

Employer  means individually and collectively, Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., Merck Holdings, Inc.,
Merck and Company Incorporated, KBI Enterprises, Inc., Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC, Merck HDAC
Research, LLC, Abmaxis, Inc., Glycofi, Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

Merck  means Merck   Co., Inc., ultimate parent of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

26 

MSD  means Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

MSD Benefits Book  means summary plan descriptions of various employee benefit plans sponsored by
MSD (formerly known as the Merck Benefits Book).

Retirement Plan  means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of MSD

Separation Benefits Plan  means the MSD Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees

Separation Date  means a Bridge-Eligible Employee s last day of employment with the Employer.

Separation Letter  means the MSD-provided letter that will describe the Special Separation Program
benefits and include a release of claims against Merck and its subsidiaries and affiliates,
including the Employer, and may include such other terms such as non-solicitation and
non-competition provisions, as the MSD determines.

Separation Letter Return Date  is the date stated in the Separation Letter by which
Bridge-Eligible Employees must sign and return it to MSD. If they sign and return (and, if a
revocation period is applicable to them, do not revoke) the Separation Letter, they become Bridged
Employees.

Separation Pay Period  is the number of full or partial work weeks for which a Bridged Employee is
being paid Separation Pay.

Special Separation Program  means the separation benefits that Bridged Employees receive if they
sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable, do not revoke) the Separation Letter.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

27 

</EX-10.12>

<EX-10.13>
 5
 y87773exv10w13.htm
 EX-10.13

exv10w13 

EXHIBIT 10.13 

MSD 

SPECIAL SEPARATION PROGRAM 

FOR 

SEPARATED RETIREMENT ELIGIBLE  EMPLOYEES 

Eligible Employees: Employees of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. (and certain of its subsidiaries)
who are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement and: 

(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or
between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2011; and 

(2) who on the Separation Date are 

at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service; or  

at least age 65  

Effective Date: As of October 1, 2010 

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

This document summarizes the benefits for which a  Separated Retirement Eligible Employee  may
be eligible under the Special Separation Program and other employee benefit plans and programs of
Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. ( MSD ). Unless otherwise noted below, the terms and conditions of MSD s
employee benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee s termination of employment from the
Employer are as described in the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) previously provided to you or provided to you with
this Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the applicable sections of the MSD Benefits Book)
may be amended from time to time. (A copy of the applicable sections of the MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) can be obtained on
line at  http://hr.merck.com  or
 www.merck.com/benefits  or by calling the Merck Benefits Service Center at 1-800-666-3725).
However, to the extent that the terms below differ from those described in the applicable sections
of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification), this
communication constitutes a summary of material modifications and should be kept with that book.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  are certain nonunionized employees of the Employer 
(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or
between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2011; and

(2) who as of their last day of employment with the Employer (the  Separation Date ), are

at least age 55 and have at least 10 years of Credited Service (as defined in the
Retirement Plan); or 

at least age 65. 

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by MSD as
 Separated Retirement Eligible Employees.   Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  do not
include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Separation From
Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) as determined by MSD, including employees who
resign for any reason. Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees and do not apply to any other employees of Merck or its subsidiaries or
affiliates, including the Employer.

If you have been designated as a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee, MSD will provide you with
a separation letter (the  Separation Letter ) that will describe the Special Separation Program
benefits for which you are eligible and will include a release of legal claims against Merck and
its subsidiaries and affiliates, including the Employer, and may also include other terms, such as
non-solicitation and non-competition provisions, as MSD in its sole discretion decides to include.
In order to receive the benefits under the Special Separation Program, you must sign and return the
Separation Letter by the date stated in the

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

2 

letter (the  Separation Letter Return Date ) and, if a revocation period is applicable to you,
not revoke the letter within the revocation period.

Special Separation Program 

All benefits under this Special Separation Program are contingent upon the Separated
Retirement Eligible Employee signing (and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoking) the
Separation Letter. They consist of:

Separation Pay 

Outplacement Services 

Eligibility for continued medical and dental benefits (for employees not otherwise
eligible for retiree medical and dental benefits) 

Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Retirement Plan (for those who would have
attained it within two years of their Separation Dates) 

Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance
year in which his or her Separation Date occurs 

Separation Pay and Outplacement Benefits are described in the Separation Plan SPD distributed with
this Brochure.

This Brochure describes:

additional benefits offered under the Special Separation Program that are not described in
the Separation Plan SPD: 

eligibility for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Retirement Plan;
and 

eligibility for continued medical and dental benefits for employees who are
not otherwise eligible for retiree medical and dental benefits. 

benefits for those Separated Retirement Eligible Employees who do not sign, or, if a
revocation period is applicable to them, who sign and later revoke, the Separation Letter; and 

terms and conditions of certain Merck or MSD benefit plans and programs as they apply to
any Separated Retirement Eligible Employees without regard to whether they sign the Separation
Letter. 

Retirement Plan   Rule of 85 Transition Benefit 

If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter 

You are eligible to retire under the terms of the Retirement Plan. As a Separated Retirement
Eligible Employee, you will be considered to have retired from active service for Retirement Plan
purposes on your Separation Date (even if the Separation Date is not the first day of a month).
Your benefit from the

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

3 

Retirement Plan will be based on the Credited Service accrued as of your Separation Date and will
be payable on the first day of the month following age 65 (or, if you are at least 65 on your
Separation Date, on the first day of the month following your Separation Date). However, you can
begin to receive your benefits on the first day of any month after you reach age 55. If you
commence your benefit at or after age 55 but before age 62, the benefit will be reduced. This
reduction reflects that payments are made earlier and for a longer period of time. The reduction
for  retirees  is 0.25% for each month (i.e., 3% for each year that benefit payments begin before
age 62). The reduction is much less than the actuarial reduction that applies to  terminated
vested  participants. You will not receive the  Rule of 85 Transition Benefit  unless you are
eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit as described below.

Death.  If you die after your Separation Date but before you begin to receive your benefits from
the Retirement Plan, your spouse (or estate in the case of any unmarried participant) will receive
an annuity or a lump sum. The lump sum, according to the plan factors in effect as they change
from time to time, is based on your age 65 accrued benefit, reduced .25% per month before age 62
that your death occurs. Then the benefit is calculated as though you had elected a joint and 100%
survivor annuity with your spouse (if you re unmarried, as though you had a spouse the same age as
you) on the day before you died. The lump sum is the actuarial equivalent of just the 100%
survivor portion of the benefit that is, taking into account your death. The annuity or lump sum
is payable only after your spouse (or administrator of your estate) applies for the benefit.

Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement
Plan purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your
Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes.

If any portion of your benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly
Employees of MSD, there is an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The
aggregate lump sum benefit payable from two different plans generally differs slightly from a lump
sum payable from only one plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).

Special Separation Program   Rule of 85 Transition Benefit   If You Sign the Separation Letter 

As described above in the paragraph  If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter,  you are eligible to
retire under the terms of the Retirement Plan. Under the Special Separation Program, if you would
have qualified for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of your Separation Date, the
Rule of 85 Transition Benefit will be paid to you under special provisions under the Retirement
Plan. The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit will be payable upon

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

4 

commencement of your pension benefits, even if the date of commencement of pension benefits is
earlier than the date you would otherwise have qualified for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit.

The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit is fully described in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the
current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification). In general, the
Rule of 85 was phased out in July of 1995. It had provided that an employee whose employment
terminated after age 55, and whose age and service equaled at least 85, would be eligible for an
unreduced age 65 benefit instead of the normal early retirement subsidy (i.e., a 3% per year
reduction for every year the benefit begins prior to age 62). The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit
preserved 100% of the Rule of 85 for any employee who was 50 or older in July of 1995, with 90%
preserved for then 49 year old employees, etc. No benefit was preserved for employees then 40 or
younger.

You are eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Special Separation Program, if you
would have reached the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of your Separation Date. In
other words, this enhancement applies if on your Separation Date the sum of your age and Credited
Service is at least 81.

For example, assume a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee was born June 30, 1951. On July 1,
1995, this employee was 44, so 40% of her Rule of 85 Transition benefit was preserved. Assume
further that her Separation Date is January 1, 2009 and that she then has exactly 26 years of
Credited Service. If her employment had continued, she would have been entitled to the Rule of 85
Transition Benefit as of October 1, 2009 (her age and service as of that date would have equaled
85). Therefore, this employee would receive the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit (i.e., 40% of the
Rule of 85 Transition Benefit) when her benefits from the Retirement Plan begin, because October 1,
2009, is less than two years from her Separation Date of January 1, 2009.

On the other hand, assume instead that a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee s age and Credited
Service as of his Separation Date add up to less than 81. He is not eligible for the Rule of 85
Transition Benefit under the Special Separation Program because he would not have been entitled to
the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of his Separation Date.

The special provisions in the Retirement Plan are subject to certain discrimination tests under tax
laws. Our actuaries have reviewed data on a preliminary basis and concluded that these special
provisions satisfy those tests, under most scenarios. However, if the provisions in practice
happen to fail the tests, the benefits described here will be made, to the extent necessary, from
MSD assets outside the Retirement Plan. Benefits from the Retirement Plan

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

5 

have tax advantages that payments outside it do not. You will be notified as soon as possible if
this provision affects you.

Split Election . Separated Retirement Eligible Employees whose pension benefits are payable in part
from the Supplemental Retirement Plan who wish to make an election with respect to the retirement
benefits under that plan may do so in accordance with that plan by contacting the Support Center at
1-866-MERCK-HD (1-866-637-2543) to request the appropriate paperwork if eligible.

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental 

If You Are Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits under the Current Terms of the Merck
Medical and Dental Plans 

If, as of your Separation Date, you are eligible for retiree healthcare (medical and dental)
benefits under the terms of MSD s medical and dental plans, whether you sign the Separation Letter
or not, you will be eligible to select retiree healthcare coverage under MSD s plans (as they may
be amended from time to time) as of the first day of the month after your Separation Date (even if
your Separation Date is not the first day of a month). Your active employee coverage will continue
to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. Your retiree healthcare benefits
will commence as of the first of the month following your Separation Date ( Retiree Healthcare
Commencement Date ).

You will be automatically enrolled in retiree dental under the comprehensive coverage option and in
retiree medical coverage under the same coverage option in which you were enrolled as an active
employee on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, provided that coverage option
is available to you as a retiree; if that medical coverage option is not available, you will be
automatically enrolled in the plan s default option. Coverage under your retiree medical and
dental coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible dependents who were your covered
dependents under the applicable plans on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date.

You are permitted to add eligible dependents or drop covered dependents and/or change medical
coverage options retroactive to the date your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you
notify the Merck Benefits Service Center of such change(s) within 30 days after your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will only be made prospectively.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

6 

Note that only those eligible dependents who are your  Dependents of Record  as of your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date can be eligible for dependent coverage under your retiree healthcare
coverage, subject to any special enrollment rights under HIPAA.  Be sure to register your eligible
dependents as  Dependents of Record  with the Merck Benefit Service Center within 30 days after
your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. If an eligible dependent is not timely registered as
your  Dependent of Record , he/she will never be eligible for dependent coverage under your MSD
retiree healthcare coverage, subject to any special enrollment rights under HIPAA. Eligible
dependents who are your covered dependents on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, are
automatically registered as Dependents of Record.

You can  opt-out  of retiree coverage, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is
generally limited to annual open enrollment (with the following January 1 as the re-enrollment
effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if you are covered under and lose other
coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center to re-enroll in MSD retiree coverage
within 30 days of the loss of your other coverage.

You must pay the applicable premiums for retiree healthcare coverage beginning on your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. You will receive an invoice from Fidelity that indicates the premium
due for your retiree coverage. If you fail to pay the premium required for retiree healthcare
coverage in the time and manner specified on the invoice, you will be deemed to have opted out of
coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as described above.

For purposes of determining the retiree medical and dental premiums, a Separated Retirement
Eligible Employee

will have the number of points that is the sum of his/her age and years of adjusted
service as recorded on MSD s records (from age 40 for those subject to the  Rule of
88  all adjusted service for those subject to the  Rule of 92 ) as of his/her
Separation Date; and 

will pay premiums for medical coverage in accordance with the premium schedule for
the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88 , as applicable, in effect on his/her Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date, as the premium schedule may be amended from time to
time. 

To determine whether the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88  applies to you and to see the
premiums applicable to those schedules, see the Reference Library on Fidelity s netbenefits
website.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

7 

You are eligible for retiree healthcare benefits if, as of your Separation Date, you are at least
age 55 and:

have at least 10 years of service with the Employer after age 40; or 

(i) were an employee of the Employer on January 1, 2003 (and the Employer was a
subsidiary of MSD (formerly Merck   Co., Inc.) on that date), (ii) have not had a break in
service since January 1, 2003, and (iii) have at least 10 years of Credited Service (as
defined in the Retirement Plan); or 

(i) had a break in service with the Employer after age 45 and before April 1, 2002 (and
the Employer was a subsidiary of MSD (formerly Merck   Co., Inc.) on that date), (ii) had
returned to work before April 1, 2002 and were employed on that date, (iii) have not had a
break in service since April 1, 2002, and (iv) have 10 years of Credited Service (as
defined in the Retirement Plan). 

If You Are Not Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits 

If You Are Not Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits   If You Do Not Sign the Separation
Letter 

If you are not eligible for retiree healthcare benefits and do not sign the Separation Letter
(or if a revocation period is applicable to you, you revoke the Separation Letter), your medical
and dental coverage options in effect on your Separation Date will continue under the normal
provisions of MSD s medical and dental plans (as they may be amended from time to time) until the
end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. At the end of that period, you will be
eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your
Separation Date. If you have no medical and/or dental coverage under MSD s medical and dental
plans on your Separation Date, you will not have medical and/or dental coverage, as applicable,
after your Separation Date nor will you be eligible to elect such coverage under COBRA.

Special Separation Program   If You Are Not Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits and Have at
Least 9 Years of Credited Service   If You Sign the Separation Letter 

If, on your Separation Date, you (i) are at least age 55 and, (ii) have at least 9 years of
Credited Service (as defined in the Retirement Plan), (iii) are not eligible for retiree healthcare
benefits (see the section  If You Are Eligible for Retiree Healthcare Benefits under the Current
Terms of MSD s Medical and Dental Plans,  above), and (iv) sign the Separation Letter (and if a
revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), then, under the
Special Separation Program, you will be eligible to select retiree healthcare coverage

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

8 

under MSD s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) as of the first day of the month after
your Separation Date (even if your Separation Date is not the first day of a month). Your active
employee coverage will continue to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. Your
retiree healthcare benefits will commence as of the first of the month following your Separation
Date ( Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date ).

You will be automatically enrolled in retiree dental under the comprehensive coverage option and in
retiree medical coverage under the same coverage option in which you were enrolled as an active
employee on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, provided that coverage option
is available to you as a retiree; if that medical coverage option is not available, you will be
automatically enrolled in the plan s default option. Coverage under your retiree medical and
dental coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible dependents who were your covered
dependents under the applicable plans on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date.

You are permitted to add eligible dependents or drop covered dependents and/or change medical
coverage options retroactive to the date your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you
notify the Merck Benefits Service Center of such change(s) within 30 days after your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will only be made prospectively.

Note that only those eligible dependents who are your  Dependents of Record  as of your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date can be eligible for dependent coverage under your retiree healthcare
coverage, subject to any special enrollment rights under HIPAA.  Be sure to register your eligible
dependents as  Dependents of Record  with the Merck Benefit Service Center within 30 days after
your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. If an eligible dependent is not timely registered as
your  Dependent of Record , he/she will never be eligible for dependent coverage under your MSD
retiree healthcare coverage, subject to any special enrollment rights under HIPAA. Eligible
dependents who are your covered dependents on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, are
automatically registered as Dependents of Record.

You can  opt-out  of retiree coverage, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is
generally limited to annual open enrollment (with the following January 1 as the re-enrollment
effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if you are covered under and lose other
coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center to re-enroll in MSD retiree coverage
within 30 days of the loss of your other coverage.

You must pay the applicable premiums for retiree healthcare coverage beginning on your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. You will receive an invoice from Fidelity that indicates the premium
due for your retiree coverage. If you fail

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

9 

to pay the premium required for retiree healthcare coverage in the time and manner specified by on
the invoice, you will be deemed to have opted out of coverage and your ability to re-enroll is
limited as described above.

For purposes of determining the retiree medical and dental premiums, a Separated Retirement
Eligible Employee

will have the number of points that is the sum of his/her age and years of adjusted
service as recorded on the MSD s records (from age 40 for those subject to the  Rule
of 88  all adjusted service for those subject to the  Rule of 92 ) as of his/her
Separation Date; provided, however, that if such sum is less than 65, then the
Separated Retirement Eligible Employee is deemed to have 65 points; and 

will pay premiums for medical coverage in accordance with the premium schedule for
the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88 , as applicable, in effect on his/her Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date, as the premium schedule may be amended from time to
time. 

To determine whether the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88  applies to you and to see the
premiums applicable to those schedules, see the Reference Library on Fidelity s netbenefits
website.

Continuation of retiree medical and dental coverages under the Special Separation Program for
Separated Retirement Eligible Employees who are not otherwise eligible for retiree healthcare
benefits is subject to the same early forfeiture provisions applicable to separated employees as
described in the Separation Plan SPD. The forfeiture provisions will apply for the Separation Pay
Period only.

Special Separation Program   If You Are Not Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits and Have Less
than 9 Years of Credited Service and You Sign the Separation Letter 

If, on your Separation Date, you are (i) a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee who is not
otherwise eligible for retiree healthcare benefits under the terms of MSD s medical and dental
plans, (ii) have less than nine years of Credited Service, and (iii) you sign the Separation Letter
(and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), then, under
the Special Separation Program, you will be eligible for continued medical and dental coverage (not
retiree coverage) under MSD s medical and dental plans (as they may be amended from time to time)
for the Separation Pay Period as more fully described in the Separation Plan SPD. If the
Separation Pay Period is less than six months, you may continue medical and dental coverage for six
months. Your contributions to continue such coverage will be the same as the contributions for
active employees, as they may change from time to time and will be payable to

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

10 

MSD (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by MSD from time to time. If you do
not pay the required contributions to MSD (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by MSD
from time to time, your coverage will be terminated and it will not be reinstated. Provided you
have paid the required contributions to continue coverage, at the end of the Separation Pay Period
or, if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, then at the end of the 6-month period
during which medical and dental coverages are provided, you may elect to continue your coverage in
accordance with COBRA for up to an additional 18 months.

Continuation of medical and dental coverages under the Special Separation Program for Separated
Retirement Eligible Employees who are not otherwise eligible for retiree healthcare benefits is
subject to the same early forfeiture provisions applicable to separated employees as described in
the Separation Plan SPD.

Life Insurance 

Regardless of when your Separation Date occurs and whether or not you sign the Separation
Letter, your accidental death and dismemberment coverage ends on your Separation Date. In
addition, a full month s premium for your life insurance coverage in effect on your Separation Date
may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.

If your Separation Date occurs on or before December 30, 2010 

If your Separation Date occurs on or before December 30, 2010, whether you sign the Separation
Letter or not, you will be considered a retiree for life insurance purposes under MSD  s Life
Insurance Plan (as it may be amended from time to time) as of your Separation Date, with retiree
coverage to begin on the first day of the month after your Separation Date. As a retiree, your
employee group term life insurance coverage equal to 1x base pay (or 2x base pay if you have  Old
Format ) will continue at no cost to you. This amount will reduce by 25% of the amount of your
coverage starting on the first day of the month after your Separation Date, and by an equal dollar
amount on the anniversary of that date, until the third anniversary of that date, when no balance
remains. You have the right to convert the amount by which your insurance is reduced to an
individual policy. See the Life Insurance Plan section of the current MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) for information on conversion. If you are a retiree
who is not yet age 65 on your Separation Date, you may continue your employee group term life
insurance in excess of 1x base pay (2x if you are  Old Format ), dependent life and/or survivor
income protection (collectively  Optional Coverages ) in effect on your Separation Date until age
65 by paying the applicable premiums in the time and

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

11 

manner required by MSD. Please note that if you have survivor income coverage in effect on December 31, 2010, that coverage will terminate at midnight on that date
and an amount of coverage will map to an amount of optional life insurance effective January 1,
2011, which amount will be added to your then current optional life insurance. See your annual
enrollment communications for 2011 for more information on coverage mapping. If you fail to pay the
premium required to continue your coverage in the time and manner specified by MSD, your
coverage(s) will be terminated and they will not be reinstated. If you are age 65 or older on your
Separation Date, your Optional Coverages will continue for 31 days from your Separation Date,
subject to the termination of survivor income coverage and mapping described above. During this
period you may convert these coverages to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain
limits. See the Life Insurance Plan section of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable
summaries of material modification) for information on conversion.

If your Separation Date Occurs on or after December 31, 2010.  

If your Separation Date occurs on or after December 31, 2010 whether you sign the Separation Letter
or not, you are not eligible for retiree life insurance. Your basic group term life insurance
equal to 1x base pay will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this 31-day
period you may elect to convert this coverage to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to
certain limitations. Your optional group term life insurance (including any amount of  old format 
basic life and/or survivor income protection coverage that is mapped to your optional life
insurance coverage effective January 1, 2011 as described in the annual enrollment communications
for 2011) and dependent life insurance will also continue for 31 days after your Separation Date.
During this 31-day period you may elect to convert or port this coverage to an individual policy
with Prudential, subject to certain limitations. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center
(1-800-666-3725) or Prudential for more information.

The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and life insurance
benefits offered under the regular plan provisions and the Special Separation Program.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

12 

Regular Plan Provisions  
       
      Special Separation Program  

Medical, Dental,  
Prescription Drug 

If eligible for
retiree healthcare
benefits  you will
be treated as a
retiree w/ applicable
contributions 

If eligible for
retiree healthcare
benefits   treated
as a retiree w/applicable
contributions paid by
retiree  

If not eligible for
retiree healthcare
benefits, benefits
continue until the
end of the month in
which your Separation
Date occurred;
eligible for COBRA
afterward 

If not eligible for
retiree healthcare
benefits   medical
and or dental
benefits continue for
the Separation Pay
Period (minimum 6
months), provided you
pay the applicable
employee
contributions in the
time and manner
specified by MSD (or
its designee);
eligible for COBRA
afterward  

Basic Employee
Term Life Insurance
(New Format-maximum
1x base pay; Prior to
January 1, 2011 Old Format   2x base pay) 

If Separation
Date is on or before
December 30, 2010: Treated as a retiree 

If Separation Date
occurs on or before
December 30, 2010:Treated as a retiree  

If Separation Date is
on or after December
31, 2010: not
eligible for retiree
coverage. 

If Separation Date is
on or after December
31, 2010: not
eligible for retiree
coverage.  

Coverage at level in
effect on Separation
Date continues for 31
days, subject to
mapping of  old
format  coverage
effective January 1,
2011 as described in
annual enrollment
materials for 2011.
May be eligible to
convert to an
individual policy
with Prudential after
coverage under the
Merck Life Insurance
Plan ends. 

Coverage at level in
effect on Separation
Date continues for 31
days, subject to
mapping of  old
format  coverage
effective January 1,
2011 as described in
annual enrollment
materials for 2011.
May be eligible to
convert to an
individual policy
with Prudential after
coverage under the
Merck Life Insurance
Plan ends.  

Optional
Employee Group Term
Life, Dependent Life
and prior to January
1, 2011 Survivor
Income 

If Separation
Date is on or before
December 30, 2010:
Treated as a retiree
  you can continue
optional coverage
(including the
amounts of  old
format  and survivor
income coverage
mapped to optional
coverage effective
January 1, 2011)
under the Merck Life
Insurance Plan at
your cost up to age
65 

If Separation Date is
on or before December
30, 2010: Treated as
a retiree   You can
continue optional
coverage (including
the amounts of  old
format  and survivor
income coverage
mapped to optional
coverage effective
January 1, 2011)
under the Merck Life
Insurance Plan at
your cost up to age
65  

If Separation Date is
on or after December
31, 2010: not
eligible for retiree
coverage. 

If Separation Date is
on or after December
31, 2010: not
eligible for retiree
coverage.  

Coverage at level in
effect on your
Separation Date
continues for 31
days, subject to
mapping of  old
format  and survivor
income coverage
effective January 1,
2011 as described in
annual enrollment
materials for 2011. 

Coverage at level in
effect on your
Separation Date
continues for 31
days, subject to
mapping of  old
format  and survivor
income coverage
effective January 1,
2011 as described in
annual enrollment
materials for 2011.  

You may be eligible
to convert or port to
an individual policy
with Prudential after
coverage under the
Merck Life Insurance
Plan ends. 

You may be eligible
to convert or port to
an individual policy
with Prudential after
coverage under the
Merck Life Insurance
Plan ends.  

AD D 

No coverage 

No coverage  

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

13 

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP ) 

As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus,
depends on when a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee s Separation Date occurs during a
performance year and whether or not the employee signs the Separation Letter.

For the performance year prior to Separation Date: Actual
AIP/EIP bonuses with respect
to the performance year immediately preceding the Separated Retirement Eligible Employee s
Separation Date may be paid to employees whose employment terminates between January 1 and
prior to the time AIP/EIP bonuses for the prior performance year are paid for that year to
other employees. 

For the performance year in which the Separation Date occurs: For employees who do not
sign the Separation Letter, a pro-rated actual AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the
performance year in which the Separated Retirement Eligible Employee s Separation Date
occurs may be paid to employees at the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that performance
year to other employees. For employees who sign the Separation Letter, a special payment
in lieu of an actual AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which the Separated
Retirement Eligible Employee s Separation Date occurs is payable under this program. For
executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for the most recent proxy
materials issued by Merck in connection with the annual meeting of shareholders, the
amount of payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the following
principles, but Merck retains complete discretion to pay more, or less, than those
amounts. 

The Employer reserves the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the
special payments in lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental wages subject to flat-rate
withholding (that is, not taking into account any exemptions). 

AIP/EIP For Performance Year Prior to Separation Date 

If your Separation Date occurs on or after January 1 and prior to the day AIP/EIP bonuses for the
prior performance year are paid to other MSD employees, you will be eligible for consideration for
an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the prior complete performance year on the same terms and
conditions as other MSD employees. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an
AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid
to other MSD employees or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for
that AIP/EIP performance year, as applicable. Eligibility for consideration for AIP/EIP bonus for
the prior performance year is not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

14 

AIP/EIP For Performance Year in which Separation Date occurs If you do not sign the Separation
Letter 

If you do not sign the Separation Letter, you will be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP
bonus with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs on the same terms
and conditions as other MSD employees who retired during the performance year. Provided you are in
a class of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you at
the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid to other MSD employees or will be deferred in accordance
with your applicable deferral election for that AIP/EIP performance year, as applicable.

AIP/EIP For Performance Year in which Separation Date occurs If you sign the Separation Letter 

A special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect to the performance year in which your
Separation Date occurs may be paid only if you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to
you, do not revoke) the Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based
on the target bonus applicable to you under the Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive
Program with respect to the current performance year and the number of full and partial months you
worked in the current performance year and is subject to adjustment by Merck in its sole discretion
based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to your documented poor or extraordinary
performance in the current performance year. If you receive a special payment in lieu of an
AIP/EIP bonus, it will be paid to you (less applicable withholding) as soon as administratively
feasible following your Separation Date. However, if you elected to defer your AIP/EIP bonus,
that election will apply to payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.

OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS 

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units 

Only employees may receive incentives under Merck s incentive stock plans, including stock options,
restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or performance stock units ( PSUs  therefore, you will not be
eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.

Outstanding Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs 

Under Merck s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose
employment ends are treated under the provisions of the

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

15 

grants applicable to retirement only if the employee is considered a retiree under the Retirement
Plan.

Whether you sign the Separation Letter or not , because you are considered a retiree under the
Retirement Plan the retirement provisions applicable to stock options, restricted stock units and
performance stock units will apply to any outstanding incentive you hold on your Separation Date.
The retirement provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILTY TO FAMILIARIZE
YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .

Retirement Provisions 

Stock Options 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2001, the
retirement provisions are:

Vested options: May be exercised until the earlier of (i) the day before the 5 th 
anniversary of your Separation Date (considered your  retirement date ) or (ii) the
original expiration date. 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2001 through 2009, the
retirement provisions are:

Unvested options will vest on the original vesting date and then be exercisable for the
full term of the option, expiring on the original expiration date. Vested options will be
exercisable for then remaining term of the option, expiring on the original expiration
date. 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made during 2010 and
thereafter, the retirement provisions are:

Unvested Options: 

If your Separation Date occurs before the 6-month anniversary
of the option grant date, the options expire on your Separation Date; or 

If your Separation Date occurs on or after the 6-month
anniversary of the option grant date, unvested options will become exercisable
on their original vesting date and remain exercisable until they expire on the
day before the fifth anniversary of the grant date (or their original
expiration date, if earlier). 

Vested Options: Options that are vested on your Separation Date will be
exercisable until they expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the grant
date (or their original expiration date, if earlier). 

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

16 

Key R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and other stock option grants may have different
terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.

If you are treated as retired, and later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and
outstanding on your rehire date will continue under the retirement terms.

RSUs 

Under the retirement provisions of the RSUs, any annual grants of restricted stock units that were
granted at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date, if any, generally will vest and become
distributable (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents for grants made in 2010
and thereafter) as if your employment with the Employer had continued. RSUs granted within 6 months
of your Separation Date will be forfeited (together with any applicable accrued dividend
equivalents for grants made in 2010 and thereafter). See the term sheets applicable to RSUs
granted to you, if any.

PSUs 

Under the retirement provisions of the PSUs, a pro rata portion of any annual grant of performance
share units that were granted to you at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date will be
payable if at all when the distribution with respect to the applicable performance year is made to
active employees; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date. Performance
share units, if any, granted to you within 6 months of your Separation Date will lapse on your
Separation Date. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.

If you have any question about your stock options, restricted stock units or performance stock
units, you can call the Support Center at 1-866-MERCK-HD (1-866-637-2543).

* * *

The following describes the terms and conditions of certain MSD benefit plans and programs as
they apply to employees whose employment with the Employer terminates for any reason. For
additional information, see the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification).

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

17 

Dependent Care Reimbursement Account 

Your participation in the Dependent Care Reimbursement Account ( DCRA ) ends on your Separation
Date. Eligible expenses incurred throughout the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs
(even after employment with the Employer ends) can be reimbursed but only up to the amount actually
contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue
Shield by April 15 th  of the year following the year in which your Separation Date
occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be
forfeited.

Financial Planning 

Your company-paid financial planning benefit will continue through the end of the calendar year in
which your Separation Date occurs.

Flexible Benefits Program 

The Flexible Benefits Program consists of the following MSD plans and programs: medical, dental,
vision, health care and dependent care reimbursement accounts, life insurance (including basic and
optional term life, dependent term life, accidental death and dismemberment and prior to January 1,
2011, survivor income protection), long term care and long term disability. However, a full month
of contribution/premium for your coverage under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may
be deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.

Health Care Reimbursement Account 

Your participation in the Health Care Reimbursement Account ( HCRA ) ends on your Separation Date,
unless you elect to continue to participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the
calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If you elect to continue participation in HCRA
under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis. Eligible expenses
incurred while you participate in HCRA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date
occurs can be reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your
participation in HCRA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter how much money is left in the account.
Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and
while you are a participant in HCRA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15
of the year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the
account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

18 

Long Term Care 

If you elected coverage under MSD s Long Term Care Plan for you (or your spouse or same-sex
domestic partner), that coverage will end on your Separation Date. However, if you want to
continue coverage without interruption, you must contact CNA (the insurer) and pay your first
quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after the last day of the month in which your Separation
Date occurs. For more information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at
1-800-528-4582.

Long Term Disability 

Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan will end on the last day of the month in which
your Separation Date occurs. In other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week eligibility
period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to be eligible for LTD benefits.
If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan
on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the Long Term
Disability Plan. However, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the Special Separation Program
will act as an offset from benefits payable under the Long Term Disability Plan (meaning the LTD
benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).

Sales Incentive Plan 

If you are a participant in a sales incentive plan of Merck or its subsidiaries, including the
Employer, on your Separation Date, your eligibility to be paid a bonus, if any, will be determined
under the terms and conditions of the plan in which you are a participant.

Savings Plan 

Any Separation Pay you receive under the Special Separation Program is not Base Pay and may not be
contributed to the Savings Plan. A pro-rata deduction will be made to the Savings Plan based on the
percentage of your monthly base pay you receive for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.
If you have a plan loan and do not repay it within 45 days of your Separation Date, the loan will
be declared in default and reported as a taxable distribution to the Internal Revenue Service.

You generally may receive a final distribution from the Savings Plan at any time after your
Separation Date. However, if your account balance is $5,000 or less, your account balance
automatically will be distributed to you soon after your Separation Date. If, upon reaching age
65, you have not previously elected to receive your benefits, your account balance will be
distributed to you without

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

19 

regard to its amount. Review the information in the Salaried Savings Plan section of the current
MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification) for additional information on
Receiving a Final Distribution.

Short Term Disability 

Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ends on your
Separation Date. If you are disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits under the Short
Term Disability Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the
terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the
Special Separation Program will act as an offset from benefits payable under the Short Term
Disability Plan (meaning the STD benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay). Where state law does
not permit such offsets to be made to STD benefits (or where the Employer in its sole and absolute
discretion determines it is easier for the Employer to administer), STD benefits will instead act
as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Employer under the Special Separation
Program (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD benefits).

Travel Accident 

Your coverage under the Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.

Vacation Pay 

You will be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your
Separation Date. Conversely, you must reimburse MSD for any vacation you used prior to your
Separation Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date. Any such amounts to be
reimbursed may be deducted from any Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan.

Vision 

Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date
occurs. You will be given the opportunity to continue this benefit in accordance with COBRA for up
to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the required premiums.

* * * 

The Special Separation Program described here currently is scheduled to be in effect for
Separations From Service that occur from January 1, 2009 

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

20 

through December 31, 2011. MSD retains the right (to the extent permitted by law) to amend or
terminate the Special Separation Program and any benefit or plan described in this brochure (or
otherwise) at any time. However, following a  change in control  of Merck (as defined in the Merck
  Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan, as it may be amended from time to time),
certain limitations apply to MSD s ability to amend or terminate this and other benefit plans. In
addition, an employee whose employment is terminated without cause within two years following a
 change in control  will also be entitled to receive the retirement bridge as provided in the Merck
  Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan. 

While it has no current intention to do so, MSD also may extend, decrease or enhance, the Special
Separation Program in the future. If you sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation
Letter Return Date, any later amendment or termination will not decrease or increase the amount of
Separation Pay you are eligible to receive under the Special Separation Program. 

Notwithstanding anything in the Special Separation Program to the contrary, benefits under the
Program that are subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be
adjusted to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A. MSD will take any and all steps it determines
are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under the Special Separation
Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or
eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc. 

Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following the
termination of employment of a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or
any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by
compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Special Separation Program to the
contrary, if a Covered Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to the
extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments will
be made during the six-month period following termination of employment. Instead, amounts that
would otherwise have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without
interest, as soon as administratively feasible following the end of such six-month period after
termination of employment. 

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

21 

Glossary of Definitions  

As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.

Basic Employee Group Term Life Coverage  is (i) prior to January 1, 2011, 1x base pay for those
who are considered New Format and 2x base pay (with the 1 st  $20,000 company-paid and the
remainder up to 2x base pay employee paid at .25/1,000) for those who are considered Old Format and
(ii) on and after January 1, 2011, 1x base pay.

Credited Service  is as defined in the Retirement Plan.

Employer  means individually and collectively, Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., Merck Holdings, Inc.,
Merck and Company Incorporated, KBI Enterprises, Inc., Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC, Merck HDAC
Research, LLC, Abmaxis, Inc., Glycofi, Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

Merck  means Merck   Co., Inc., ultimate parent of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

MSD  means Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

MSD Benefits Book  means summary plan descriptions of various employee benefit plans sponsored by
MSD (formerly known as the Merck Benefits Book).

Retirement Plan  means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of MSD

Separation Benefits Plan  means the MSD Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  are certain nonunionized employees of the Employer

(1) who experience a Separation From Service ( as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan)
on or between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2011; and

(2) who as of their last day of employment with the Employer (the  Separation Date ) are

at least age 55 and have at least 10 years of Credited Service (as defined in
the Retirement Plan) or 

at least age 65. 

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by MSD as
 Separated Retirement Eligible Employees.   Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  do not
include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Separation From
Service (as

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

22 

defined in Separation Benefits Plan) as determined by MSD, including employees who resign for any
reason.

Separation Date  means a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee s last day of employment with the
Employer.

Separation Letter  means the MSD-provided letter that will describe the Special Separation Program
benefits and include a release of claims against Merck and its subsidiaries and affiliates,
including the Employer and may include such other terms such as non-solicitation and
non-competition provisions, as the MSD determines.

Separation Letter Return Date  is the date stated in the Separation Letter by which Separated
Retirement Eligible Employees must sign and return it to MSD.

Separation Pay Period  is the number of full or partial workweeks for which a Separated Retirement
Eligible Employee is being paid Separation Pay.

Special Separation Program  means the separation benefits that Separated Retirement Eligible
Employees receive if they sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable, do not revoke) the
Separation Letter.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of October 1, 2010 
Revised as of October 1, 2010

23 

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.17>
 6
 y87773exv10w17.htm
 EX-10.17

exv10w17 

EXHIBIT 10.17 

MERCK   CO., INC. 

2010 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS 

STOCK OPTION PLAN 

(Effective December 1, 2010) 

2010 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS STOCK OPTION PLAN 

The 2010 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (the  Plan ) is established and is
maintained to attract, retain and compensate for service as members of the Board of Directors of
Merck   Co., Inc. (the  Company  or  Merck ) highly qualified individuals who are not current or
former employees of the Company and to enable them to increase their ownership in the Company s
Common Stock. The Plan will be beneficial to the Company and its stockholders since it will allow
these Directors to have a greater personal financial stake in the Company through the ownership of
Company stock, in addition to underscoring their common interest with stockholders in increasing
the value of the Company stock longer term.

1. 
       
      Eligibility  

All members of the Company s Board of Directors who are not current or former employees of the
Company or any of its subsidiaries ( Non-Employee Directors ) shall participate in this Plan. 

2. 
       
      Awards  

Only nonqualified stock options to purchase shares of Merck Common Stock ( NQSOs ) and
Restricted Stock Grants (collectively,  Incentives ) may be granted under this Plan. 

3. 
       
      Shares Available  

a) 
       
     Number of Shares Available: There is hereby reserved for issuance under this Plan 1
million shares of Merck Common Stock, which may be authorized but unissued shares,
treasury shares, or shares purchased on the open market. 

b) 
       
     Recapitalization Adjustment: In the event of a reorganization, recapitalization,
stock split, stock dividend, extraordinary cash dividend, combination of shares, merger,
consolidation, rights offering or other similar change in the capital structure or shares
of the Company, adjustments in the number and kind of shares authorized by this Plan, in
the number and kind of shares covered by Incentives, and in the option price of
outstanding NQSOs under, this Plan shall be made if, and in the same manner as, such
adjustments are made to incentives issued under the 2007 Incentive Stock Plan for Merck
Sharp   Dohme and the Merck   Co., Inc. 2010 Incentive Stock Plan after the Company
shareholders approve such plan (the  ISP ) subject to any required action by the Board of
Directors or the stockholders of the Company and compliance with applicable securities
laws. 

4. 
       
      Annual Grant of Nonqualified Stock Options  

Each year prior to January 1, 2011, each individual elected, reelected or continuing as a
Non-Employee Director shall automatically receive an NQSO to purchase 5,000 shares of Merck
Common Stock or such other amount as may be determined by the Board from time to time. The
grant shall be made on the third business day after the first public announcement of the
Company s quarterly earnings that occurs after the Company s Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
Non-Employee Directors who are then serving. If Merck Common Stock is not traded on the New
York Stock Exchange on any date a grant would otherwise be awarded, then the grant shall be
made the next day thereafter that Merck Common Stock is so traded. For years after 2010, no 

1 

further grants will be made under this section, subject to the Board s right to further amend
the Plan. 

5. 
       
      Option Price  

The price of the NQSO shall be the closing price of Merck Common Stock on the date of the grant
as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange. 

6. 
       
      Option Period  

An NQSO granted under this Plan shall become exercisable at 12:01 a.m. in three equal
installments (subject to rounding) on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the
date of grant and shall expire at 11:59 p.m. on the day before the tenth anniversary thereof
( Option Period ). As used in this Plan, all times shall mean the time for New York, NY. 

7. 
       
      Payment  

The NQSO price and any required tax withholding, if any, shall be paid in cash in U.S. dollars
at the time the NQSO is exercised or in such other manner as permitted for option exercises
under the ISP applicable to  officers  (as defined in Rule 16a-1 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (the  Exchange Act )) of Merck and its affiliates. If the Compensation and Benefits
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approves the use of previously owned shares
of Common Stock for any portion of the exercise price for NQSOs granted under the ISP, then
that same provision also shall apply to this Plan. The NQSOs shall be exercised through the
Company s broker-assisted stock option exercise program, provided such program is available at
the time of the option exercise, or by such other means as in effect from time to time for the
ISP. 

8. 
       
      Cessation of Service  

Upon cessation of service as a Non-Employee Director (for reasons other than Retirement or
death), only those NQSOs immediately exercisable at the date of cessation of service shall be
exercisable by the grantee. Such NQSOs must be exercised by 11:59 p.m. on the day before the
same day of the third month after such cessation of service (but in no event after the
expiration of the Option Period) or they shall be forfeited. For example, if service ends on
January 12 and this section applies, the NQSOs would expire no later than 11:59 p.m. on April
11. All other NQSOs shall expire at 11:59 p.m. on the day of such cessation of service. 

9. 
       
      Retirement  

If a grantee ceases service as a Non-Employee Director and is then at least age 65 with ten or
more years of service or age 70 with five or more years of service (such cessation of service
is a  Retirement  and begins on the first day after service ends), then any of his/her
outstanding NQSOs shall continue to become exercisable as if service had continued. All
outstanding NQSOs must be exercised by the expiration of the Option Period, or such NQSOs shall
be forfeited. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a grantee dies after Retirement but before the
NQSOs are forfeited, Section 10 shall control. 

2 

Upon the death of a grantee, all unvested NQSOs shall become immediately exercisable. The NQSOs
which become exercisable upon the date of death and those NQSOs which were exercisable on the
date of death may be exercised by the grantee s legal representatives or heirs by the earlier
of (i) 11:59 p.m. on the day before the third anniversary of the date of death (ii) the
expiration of the Option Period; if not exercised by the earlier of (i) or (ii), such NQSOs
shall be forfeited. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if local law applicable to a deceased
grantee requires a longer or shorter exercise period, these provisions shall comply with that
law. 

11. 
       
      Restricted Stock Grant  

The Board may award actual shares of Common Stock ( Restricted Stock ) or phantom shares of
Common Stock ( Restricted Stock Units ) to a Non-Employee Director, which shares shall be
subject to the terms and conditions and as the Board may prescribe from time to time. 

12. 
       
      Administration and Amendment of the Plan  

This Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors of Merck. The Board may delegate to
any person or group, who may further so delegate, the Board s powers and obligations hereunder
as they relate to day to day administration of the exercise process. This Plan may be
terminated or amended by the Board of Directors as it deems advisable. However, an amendment
revising the price, date of exercisability, option period of, or amount of shares under an NQSO
shall not be made more frequently than every six months unless necessary to comply with
applicable laws or regulations. Unless approved by the Company s stockholders, no adjustments
or reduction of the exercise price of any outstanding NQSO shall be made directly or by
cancellation of outstanding NQSOs and the subsequent regranting of NQSOs at a lower price to
the same individual. No amendment may revoke or alter in a manner unfavorable to the grantees
any Incentives then outstanding, nor may the Board amend this Plan without stockholder approval
where the absence of such approval would cause the Plan to fail to comply with Rule 16b-3 under
the Exchange Act or any other requirement of applicable law or regulation. An Incentive may not
be granted under this Plan after December 31, 2019 but NQSOs granted prior to that date shall
continue to become exercisable and may be exercised, and Restricted Stock Grants shall continue
to vest, according to their terms, 

13. 
       
      Transferability  

Except as set forth in this section, the NQSOs granted under this Plan shall not be exercisable
during the grantee s lifetime by anyone other than the grantee, the grantee s legal guardian or
the grantee s legal representative, and shall not be transferable other than by will or by the
laws of descent and distribution. Incentives granted under this Plan shall be transferable
during a grantee s lifetime only in accordance with the following provisions. 

The grantee may only transfer an NQSO while serving as a Non-Employee Director of the Company
or within one year of ceasing service as a Non-Employee Director due to Retirement as defined
in Section 9. 

The NQSO may be transferred only to the grantee s spouse, children (including adopted children
and stepchildren) and grandchildren (collectively,  Family Members ), to one or more trusts for 

3 

the benefit of Family Members or, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, to one or more
partnerships where the grantee and his Family Members are the only partners, in accordance with
the rules set forth in this section. The grantee shall not receive any payment or other
consideration for such transfer (except that if the transfer is to a partnership, the grantee
shall be permitted to receive an interest in the partnership in consideration for the
transfer). 

Any NQSO transferred in accordance with this section shall continue to be subject to the same
terms and conditions in the hands of the transferee as were applicable to such NQSO prior to
the transfer, except that the grantee s right to transfer such NQSO in accordance with this
section shall not apply to the transferee. However, if the transferee is a natural person,
upon the transferee s death, the NQSO privileges may be exercised by the legal representatives
or beneficiaries of the transferee within the exercise periods otherwise applicable to the
NQSO. 

Any purported transfer of an NQSO under this section shall not be effective unless, prior to
such transfer, the grantee has (1) met the minimum stock ownership target then in place for
Directors of the Company, (2) notified the Company of the transferee s name and address, the
number of shares under the Option to be transferred, and the grant date and exercise price of
such shares, and (3) demonstrated, if requested by the Board of Directors, that the proposed
transferee qualifies as a permitted transferee under the rules set forth in this section. In
addition, the transferee must sign an agreement that he or she is bound by the rules and
regulations of the Plan and by the same insider trading restrictions that apply to the grantee
and provide any additional documents requested by the Company in order to effect the transfer.
No transfer shall be effective unless the Company has in effect a registration statement filed
under the Securities Act of 1933 covering the securities to be acquired by the transferee upon
exercise of the NQSO, or the General Counsel of Merck has determined
that registration of such shares is not necessary. 

14. 
       
      Compliance with SEC Regulations  

It is the Company s intent that the Plan comply in all respects with Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange
Act, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. If any provision of this Plan is later found
not to be in compliance with the Rule, the provision shall be deemed null and void. All grants
and exercises of NQSOs under this Plan shall be executed in accordance with the requirements of
Section 16 of the Exchange Act, as amended, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. 

15. 
       
      Compliance with Section 409A of the Code  

To the extent applicable, to the extent an Incentive is granted to a Non-Employee Director
subject to the Code, it is intended that such Incentive is exempt from Section 409A of the Code
or is structured in a manner that would not cause the Non-Employee Director to be subject to
taxes and interest pursuant to Section 409A of the Code. 

16. 
       
      Registration and Approvals  

The obligation of the Company to sell or deliver shares of Common Stock with respect to
Incentives granted under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and
regulations, including all applicable federal and state securities laws, and the obtaining of
all such approvals by governmental agencies as may be deemed necessary or appropriate by the Board. Each 

4 

Incentive
is subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Board determines, in its discretion,
that the listing, registration or qualification of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to
the Plan is required by any securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the
consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body is necessary or desirable as a
condition of, or in connection with, the grant of an Incentive or the issuance of shares of
Common Stock, no Incentive shall be granted or payment made or shares of Common Stock issued,
in whole or in part, unless listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval has been
effected or obtained free of any conditions as acceptable to the Board. Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Plan, the terms and conditions related to the Incentive, or any other
agreement to the contrary, in the event that the disposition of shares of Common Stock acquired
pursuant to the Plan is not covered by a then current registration statement under the
Securities Act, and is not otherwise exempt from such registration, such shares of Common Stock
shall be restricted against transfer to the extent required by the Securities Act and Rule 144
or other regulations thereunder. The Board may require any individual receiving shares of
Common Stock pursuant to an Incentive granted under the Plan, as a condition precedent to
receipt of such shares of Common Stock, to represent and warrant to the Company in writing that
the shares of Common Stock acquired by such individual are acquired without a view to any
distribution thereof and will not be sold or transferred other than pursuant to an effective
registration thereof under said Act or pursuant to an exemption applicable under the Securities
Act or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The certificates evidencing any of
such shares of Common Stock shall be appropriately amended or have an appropriate legend placed
thereon to reflect their status as restricted securities as aforesaid. 

Except as provided in this Plan, no Non-Employee Director shall have any claim or right to be
granted an NQSO under this Plan. Neither the Plan nor any action thereunder shall be construed
as giving any director any right to be retained in the service of the Company. 

18. 
       
      Effective Date  

This Plan is adopted effective as of June 1, 2010 or such later date as stockholder approval is
obtained. 

19. 
       
      No Constraint on Corporate Action  

Nothing in this Plan shall be construed (i) to limit or impair or otherwise affect the
Company s right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of
its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, liquidate, sell or transfer all
or any part of its business or assets, or (ii) except as provided in Section 12, to limit the
right or power of the Company or any subsidiary to take any action which such entity deems to
be necessary or appropriate. 

20. 
       
      Governing Law  

This Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by
the laws of the State of New Jersey. 

5 

</EX-10.17>

<EX-10.19>
 7
 y87773exv10w19.htm
 EX-10.19

exv10w19 

EXHIBIT 10.19 

MERCK   CO., INC. 

PLAN FOR DEFERRED PAYMENT OF 

DIRECTORS  COMPENSATION 

(   Effective as Amended and Restated December 1, 2010   ) 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

Article I

Purpose 
       
     1 

Article II

Election of Deferral, Investment Alternatives and Distribution Schedule 
       
     1 

Article III

Valuation of Deferred Amounts 
       
     3 

Article IV

Redesignation Within a Deferral Account 
       
     4 

Article V

Payment of Deferred Amounts 
       
     5 

Article VI

Designation of Beneficiary 
       
     6 

Article VII

Plan Amendment or Termination 
       
     6 

Article VIII

Section 409A Compliance 
       
     6 

Article IX

Effective Date 
       
     6 

MERCK   CO., INC. 
PLAN FOR DEFERRED PAYMENT OF 
DIRECTORS  COMPENSATION 

I.  
       
      PURPOSE  

The Merck   Co., Inc. Plan for Deferred Payment of Directors  Compensation ( Plan )
provides an unfunded arrangement for directors of Merck   Co., Inc., formerly known as
Schering-Plough Corporation ( Merck  or the  Company ) prior to the closing date ( Closing
Date ) of the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of March 8, 2009, as amended, by and
among Merck   Co., Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation, SP Merger Subsidiary One, Inc. and SP
Merger Subsidiary Two, Inc. (the  Transactions ), other than directors that are current
employees of the Company or its subsidiaries, to value, account for and ultimately
distribute amounts deferred (i) voluntarily in case of annual retainers and Board and
committee meeting fees, if any, and (ii) mandatorily in certain other cases as described
herein. Prior to the Closing Date, the predecessor to this Plan provided identical
benefits to directors of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. (formerly Merck   Co, Inc. prior to the
Closing Date) ( MSD ). 

II.  
       
      ELECTION OF DEFERRAL, INVESTMENT ALTERNATIVES AND DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE  

A. 
       
      Election of Voluntary Deferral Amount  

1. 
       
     Prior to December 31 of each year, each director may irrevocably elect (an
 Initial Election ) to defer, until termination of service as a director or later, 50%
or 100% of each of the following (together, the  Voluntary Deferral Amount ) with
respect to the 12 months beginning April 1 of the next calendar year after such
Initial Election: 

(a) 
       
     Board retainer 

(b) 
       
     Committee Chairperson retainer 

(c) 
       
     Audit Committee member retainer, and 

(d) 
       
     Board and committee meeting fees, if any. 

2. 
       
     Prior to commencement of duties as a director or within the first 30 days
following commencement of services, a director newly elected or appointed to the Board
during a calendar year may make an Initial Election for the portion of the Voluntary
Deferral Amount applicable to such director s first year of service (or part thereof). 

3. 
       
     The Voluntary Deferral Amount shall be credited as follows: (1) Board and
committee meeting fees, if any, that are deferred are credited as of the last business
day of each calendar quarter; (2) if the Board retainer, Lead Director retainer,
Committee Chairperson retainer and/or Audit Committee member retainer are deferred, a
pro-rata share of the deferred retainer is credited as of the last business day of
each calendar quarter. The dates as of which the Voluntary Deferral Amount, or parts
thereof, are credited to the director s deferred account are hereinafter referred to
as the Voluntary Deferral Dates. 

4. 
       
     Once an Initial Election is made, including, effective December s 2008,
elections made by directors of MSD prior to the Transactions, it shall continue to
apply in 

successive years on the same terms and conditions until the director makes a new
Initial Election. 

5. 
       
     Certain directors (the  Schering Directors ) who were directors of
Schering-Plough Corporation on the Closing Date of the Transactions continued service
following the Closing Date. Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, the
Schering Directors were first eligible to elect Voluntary Deferrals by December 31 of
the year that includes the Closing Date. That initial election may not apply earlier
than January 1 of the following year and shall continue through the April 1 of the
second year following the Closing Date. 

B. 
       
      Mandatory Deferral Amount  

1. 
       
     As of the Friday following the Company s Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the
 Mandatory Deferral Date ), each director will be credited with an amount equivalent
to the annual cash retainer for the 12 month period beginning on the April 1 preceding
the Annual Meeting; provided, however, that effective for the 12-month period
beginning April 1, 2011 and thereafter, such credit shall instead equal $150,000 (the
 Mandatory Deferral Amount ). The Mandatory Deferral Amount will be measured by the
Merck Common Stock account. 

2. 
       
     A director newly elected or appointed to the Board after the Mandatory
Deferral Date will be credited with a pro rata portion of the Mandatory Deferral
Amount applicable to such director s first year of service (or part thereof). Such
pro rata portion shall be credited to the director s account as of the first day of
such director s service. 

3. 
       
     For purposes of the Mandatory Deferral Amount, the Schering Directors shall
be treated as if newly elected or appointed to the Board as of the Closing Date. 

C. 
       
      Automatic Deferral of Executive Committee Fees  

Between June 2005, and April 2007, directors of MSD who served as either
Chairperson or member of the Board s Executive Committee, in lieu of any cash
payment for such service, were credited with an amount provided by way of retainer
or meeting fees (the  Automatic Deferral Amount ). The Automatic Deferral Amount
is measured by the Merck Common Stock account. 

D. 
       
      Election of Investment Alternatives  

Each Initial Election shall include an election as to the investment alternatives
by which the value of amounts deferred will be measured in accordance with Article
III, below. Investment alternatives available under this Plan shall be the same as
the investment alternatives available from time to time under the Merck Deferral
Program (the  Executive Deferral Program  provided, however, that at all times
there shall be a Merck Common Stock fund. All investment alternatives other than
Merck Common Stock are referred to herein as  Other Investment Alternatives.  

2 

E. 
       
      Initial Election of Distribution Schedule  

An Initial Election shall include an election of the year during which the
Distribution Date (as defined below) shall occur and shall apply to all Voluntary
Deferral Amounts, Mandatory Deferral Amounts and Automatic Deferral Amounts
credited during the same period. The Distribution Date shall be the 15th day of
the month (or, if such day is not a business day, the next business day) of a
calendar quarter following the Director s termination of service as a director or
such number of years thereafter as would be permitted for distributions elected
under the Executive Deferral Program. 

F. 
       
      Changes to Distribution Schedule  

If and to the extent that participants in the Executive Deferral Program are
permitted to make re-deferral elections from time to time, participants in this
Plan may elect to defer their Distribution Dates subject to the same restrictions
applicable under the Executive Deferral Program; provided, however, that no
re-deferral election may have the effect of accelerating a distribution prior to a
director s termination of service or death. 

G. 
       
      Unforeseeable Emergency  

The Committee shall distribute a participant s deferred amounts prior to the
Distribution Date described in Sections II E and II F above if and to the extent a
participant (i) applies to receive a distribution due to an Unforeseeable Emergency
as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-3(i) or successor thereto, and (ii) provides
the Committee or its delegate with sufficient evidence to prove to the satisfaction
of the Committee or its delegate compliance with Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-3(i). The
Committee shall distribute the amount necessary in cash to satisfy the
Unforeseeable Emergency up to the participant s entire account balance, including
the amount invested in Merck Common Stock. If less than the participant s
entire account balance is distributable to satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency, the
Committee shall distribute pro rata from each of the participant s investment
alternatives, including the participant s investment in Merck Common Stock.
Distributions under this Section II G shall be made as soon as administratively
feasible following the determination of the Committee or its delegate that clauses
(i) and (ii) of the first sentence of this Section II G have been satisfied. 

III.  
       
      VALUATION OF DEFERRED AMOUNTS  

A. 
       
      Merck Common Stock  

1. 
       
      Initial Crediting . The annual Mandatory Deferral Amount shall be used to
determine the number of full and partial shares of Merck Common Stock that such amount
would purchase at the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange
( NYSE ) on the Mandatory Deferral Date.

3 

The Automatic Deferral Amount is used to determine the number of full and partial shares
of Merck Common Stock that such amount would have purchased at the closing
price of the Common Stock on the NYSE. 

That portion of the Voluntary Deferral Amount allocated to Merck Common Stock shall
be used to determine the number of full and partial shares of Merck Common Stock
that such amount would purchase at the closing price of the Common Stock on the
NYSE on the applicable Voluntary Deferral Date. 

This Plan is unfunded: at no time will any shares of Merck Common Stock be
purchased or earmarked for such deferred amounts nor will any rights of a
shareholder exist with respect to such amounts. 

2. 
       
      Dividends.  Each director s account will be credited with the additional
number of full and partial shares of Merck Common Stock that would have been
purchasable with the dividends on shares previously credited to the account at the
closing price of the Common Stock on the NYSE on the date each dividend was paid. 

3. 
       
      Distributions.  Distributions from the Merck Common Stock account will be
valued at the closing price of Merck Common Stock on the NYSE as of the Distribution
Date. 

4. 
       
     For purposes of valuation of Merck Common Stock, if Merck Common Stock is no
longer traded on the NYSE, but is publicly traded on any other exchange, references to
NYSE shall mean such other exchange. If Merck Common Stock is not publicly traded and
if the Committee on Corporate Governance of the Board of Directors determines that a
measurement of Merck Common Stock on any Mandatory or Voluntary Deferral Date or
Distribution Date would not constitute fair market value, then the Committee shall
decide on the date and method to determine fair market value, which shall be in accord
with any requirements set forth under Section 409A or any successor thereto. 

B. 
       
      Other Investment Alternatives  

1. 
       
      Initial Crediting.  The amount allocated to each Other Investment Alternative
shall be used to determine the full and partial Other Investment Alternative shares
that such amount would purchase at the closing net asset value of the Other Investment
Alternative shares on the Mandatory or Voluntary Deferral Date, whichever is
applicable. The director s account will be credited with the number of full and
partial Other Investment Alternative shares so determined. 

At no time will any Other Investment Alternative shares be purchased or earmarked
for such deferred amounts nor will any rights of a shareholder exist with respect
to such amounts. 

2. 
       
      Dividends.  Each director s account will be credited with the additional
number of full and partial Other Investment Alternative shares that would have been
purchasable, at the closing net asset value of the Other Investment Alternative shares
as of the date each dividend is paid on the Other Investment Alternative shares, with
the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares 

4 

previously credited to such account (including pro rata dividends on any partial shares). 

3. 
       
      Distributions.  Other Investment Alternative distributions will be valued
based on the closing net asset value of the Other Investment Alternative shares as of
the Distribution Date. 

C. 
       
      Adjustments  

In the event of a reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend,
combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering or any other change
in the corporate structure or shares of the Company or an Other Investment
Alternative, the number and kind of shares or units shall be adjusted accordingly. 

IV.  
       
      REDESIGNATION WITHIN A DEFERRAL ACCOUNT  

A. 
       
      General  

A director may redesignate how his or her account is invested among the Other
Investment Alternatives (a  Redesignation ). A Redesignation affects only the
Investment Alternatives; it does not affect the timing of distributions from the
Plan.  Except as provided in Section G. of Article II, amounts deferred using the
Merck Common Stock method and any earnings attributable to such deferrals may not
be redesignated prior to the first anniversary of the termination of the director s
service.  The change will be effective at the closing price as of (i) the day when
the redesignation request is received pursuant to administrative guidelines
established by the Human Resources Financial Services area provided the request is
received prior to the close of the NYSE on such day or (ii) the next following
business day if the request is received when the NYSE is closed. 

B. 
       
      When Redesignation May Occur  

1. 
       
      During Active Service . There is no limit on the number of times a director
may Redesignate the portion of his/her deferred account permitted to be Redesignated.
Each such request shall be irrevocable and can be Redesignated in whole percentages or
as a dollar amount. 

2. 
       
      After Death . Following the death of a director, the legal representative or
beneficiary of such director may Redesignate subject to the same rules as for active
directors set forth in Article IV, Section B.1. 

C. 
       
      Valuation of Amounts to be Redesignated  

The portion of the director s account to be Redesignated will be valued at its cash
equivalent and such cash equivalent will be converted into shares or units of the
Other Investment Alternatives. For purposes of such Redesignations, the cash
equivalent of the value of the Other Investment Alternative shares shall be the
closing net asset value of such Other Investment Alternative as of (i) the day when
the Redesignation request is received pursuant to administrative guidelines
established by the Human Resources Financial Services area of the Treasury 

5 

department, provided the request is received prior to the close of the NYSE on such
day or (ii) the next following business day if the request is received when the
NYSE is closed. 

V.  
       
      PAYMENT OF DEFERRED AMOUNTS  

A. 
       
      Payment  

Subject to Section II G, all payments to directors of amounts deferred will be in
cash as of the Distribution Date and will be paid as soon as administratively
feasible after the Distribution Date. Distributions shall be pro rata by
investment alternative. 

B. 
       
      Forfeitures  

A director s deferred amount attributable to the Mandatory Deferral Amount and
earnings thereon shall be forfeited upon his or her removal as a director or upon a
determination by the Committee on Corporate Governance, in its sole discretion
that, a director has: 

(i) 
       
     joined the Board of, managed, operated, participated in a
material way in, entered employment with, performed consulting (or any other)
services for, or otherwise been connected in any material manner with a
company, corporation, enterprise, firm, limited partnership, partnership,
person, sole proprietorship or any other business entity determined by the
Committee on Corporate Governance in its sole discretion to be competitive
with the business of the Company, its subsidiaries or its affiliates (a
 Competitor  

(ii) 
       
     directly or indirectly acquired an equity interest of 5
percent or greater in a Competitor; or 

(iii) 
       
     disclosed any material trade secrets or other material
confidential information, including customer lists, relating to the Company or
to the business of the Company to others, including a Competitor. 

VI.  
       
      DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY  

In the event of the death of a director: 

A. The deferred amount at the date of death shall be paid to the last named beneficiary or
beneficiaries designated by the director, or, if no beneficiary has been designated, to the
legal representative of the director s estate. 

B. A lump sum distribution of any remaining account balance will be made to the director s
beneficiary or estate s legal representative as soon as administratively feasible following
such death, whether or not the director was in service at the time of death or has
commenced to receive payments of his or her account balance. The Distribution Date of such
a distribution shall be the 15th day of the month (or, if such day is not a business day,
the next business day) of the calendar quarter following the date the Company learns of
such death. 

6 

VII.  
       
      PLAN AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION  

The Committee on Corporate Governance shall have the right to amend or terminate this
Plan at any time for any reason. 

Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, the Plan shall comply with
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or any successor thereto)
(the  Code ) and shall be interpreted in accordance therewith. Any payment called for
under the Plan as of or as soon as administratively feasible on or after a designated date
shall be made no later than a date within the same tax year of a director, or by March 15
of the following year, if later (or such other time as permitted in Treas. Reg. Sec.
1.409A-3(d) or any successor thereto); provided further, that the director is not permitted
to change the taxable year of payment, except in accordance with Article II, Section F and
Section 409A of the Code . Where the Plan s obligation to pay is unclear, including a
dispute about who is the proper beneficiary of a director who dies, payment shall be made
as soon as administratively feasible after the Program s obligation becomes clear and at a
time permitted by Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-3(g)(4) or any successor thereto. 

IX.  
       
      EFFECTIVE DATE.  

This amendment and restatement of this plan shall be effective as of the Closing Date
of the Transactions. 

7 

</EX-10.19>

<EX-12>
 8
 y87773exv12.htm
 EX-12

exv12 

Exhibit 12 

MERCK   CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

($ in millions except ratio data)

For purposes of computing these ratios,  earnings  consist of income before taxes,
one-third of rents (deemed by the Company to be representative of the interest factor
inherent in rents), interest expense, interest capitalized, net of amortization and
equity (income) loss from affiliates, net of distributions.  Fixed charges  consist of
one-third of rents, interest expense as reported in the consolidated financial statements
and dividends on preferred stock. Interest expense does not include interest related to
uncertain tax positions.

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 9
 y87773exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

Exhibit 21 

MERCK   CO., INC. SUBSIDIARIES 
as of 12/31/10 

The following is a list of subsidiaries of the Company, doing business under the name stated.

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Aacifar-Produtos Quimicos e Farmaceuticos, Lda

Portugal 

Aaciphar NV

Belgium 

Abmaxis Inc.

Delaware 

Administradora Schering Plough, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

Aquaculture Holdings Limited

United Kingdom 

Aquaculture Vaccines Limited

United Kingdom 

Ark Products Limited

United Kingdom 

AVL Holdings Limited

United Kingdom 

Avondale Chemical Co. Limited

Ireland 

Banyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.

Japan 

Beneficiadora E Industrializadora, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

BioConnection B.V.  1 

Netherlands 

Biometer International A/S

Denmark 

Brazil Holdings Ltd.

Bermuda 

BRC Ltd.

Bermuda 

Burgwedel Biotech GmbH

Germany 

Canji, Inc.

Delaware 

Charles E. Frosst (U.K.) Limited

United Kingdom 

Chemibiotic (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

Cherokee Pharmaceuticals LLC

Delaware 

Cherokee Riverside Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Chibret Pharmazeutische GmbH

Germany 

Cloverleaf International Holdings S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

Comsort, Inc.

Delaware 

Coopers Animal Health Limited

United Kingdom 

Coopers Saude Animal Industria e Comercio Ltda.

Brazil 

Coopers Uruguay S.A.

Uruguay 

Coopers Veterinary Products (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

Cosmas B.V.

Netherlands 

Crosswinds B.V.

Netherlands 

Dashtag

United Kingdom 

Desarrollos Farmaceuticos Y Cosmeticos, S.A.

Spain 

Dieckmann Arzneimittel GmbH

Germany 

Diosynth Apeldoorn B.V.

Netherlands 

Diosynth France S.A.

France 

Diosynth Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Diosynth International B.V.

Netherlands 

Diosynth Ltd

United Kingdom 

Diosynth Produtos Farmo-quimicos Ltda.

Brazil 

Diosynth RTP Inc.

Delaware 

Distrireti S.A.

France 

DJT Partners, L.P.

Delaware 

DNAX Research, Inc.

California 

Douglas Industries, Inc.

Delaware 

Essex Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Essex Beteiligungs GmbH   Co KG

Germany 

Essex Chemie AG

Switzerland 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Essex Farmaceutica Portuguesa, Lda.

Portugal 

Essex Farmaceutica, S.A.

Colombia 

Essex Holding GmbH

Germany 

Essex Italia S.p.A.

Italy 

Essex Pharma Arzneimittel GmbH

Germany 

Essex Pharma Development GmbH

Germany 

Essex Pharma Distributions GmbH

Germany 

Essex Pharma GmbH

Germany 

Essex Pharma Unterstuetzungs GmbH

Germany 

Essex Pharma Vertriebs GmbH

Germany 

Essex Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Philippines 

Essexfarm, S.A.

Ecuador 

European Insurance Risk Excess Limited

Ireland 

Farmaas B.V.

Netherlands 

Farmaceutica Essex S.A.

Spain 

Farmaceutici Gellini S.r.l.

Italy 

Farmacox-Companhia Farmaceutica, Lda

Portugal 

Farmasix-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda

Portugal 

Financiere MSD S.A.S.

France 

Fontelabor-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.

Portugal 

Frosst Iberica, S.A.

Spain 

Frosst Laboratories, Inc.

Delaware 

Frosst Portuguesa   Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.

Portugal 

Fulford (India) Limited 1 

India 

Garden Insurance Company, Ltd.

Bermuda 

Global Animal Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Global Farm S.A.  1 

Argentina 

GlycoFi, Inc.

Delaware 

Hangzhou MSD Pharmaceutical Company Limited 1 

China 

Hawk and Falcon L.L.C.

Delaware 

Heptafarma Companhia Farmaceutica, Lda.

Portugal 

Hoechst Roussel Vet de Bolivia Ltda

Bolivia 

Horus B.V.

Netherlands 

Hydrochemie GmbH

Germany 

International Indemnity Ltd.

Bermuda 

Intervet

France 

Intervet (Hong Kong) Ltd

Hong Kong 

Intervet (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

Intervet (Israel) Ltd.

Israel 

Intervet (M) Sdn Bhd

Malaysia 

Intervet (Pty) Ltd

South Africa 

Intervet (Thailand) Ltd.

Thailand 

Intervet AB

Sweden 

Intervet Agencies B.V.

Netherlands 

Intervet Animal Health Taiwan Limited

Taiwan (Republic of China) 

Intervet Argentina S.A.

Argentina 

Intervet Australia Pty Ltd

Australia 

Intervet Belgium NV

Belgium 

Intervet Bulgaria EOOD

Bulgaria 

Intervet Canada Corp.

Canada 

Intervet Central America Srl

Panama 

Intervet Colombia Ltda

Colombia 

Intervet Denmark A/S

Denmark 

2 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Intervet Deutschland GmbH

Germany 

Intervet do Brasil Veterinaria Ltda

Brazil 

Intervet Ecuador S.A.

Ecuador 

Intervet Egypt for Animal Health SAE

Egypt 

Intervet Friesoythe GmbH

Germany 

Intervet GesmbH

Austria 

Intervet Hellas A.E.

Greece 

Intervet Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Intervet Holding Costa Rica SA

Costa Rica 

Intervet Holding Iberia, S.L.

Spain 

Intervet Holdings France

France 

Intervet Hungaria Kft

Hungary 

Intervet Inc.

Delaware 

Intervet India Pvt. Ltd

India 

Intervet Innovation GmbH

Germany 

Intervet International

France 

Intervet International B.V.

Netherlands 

Intervet International GmbH

Germany 

Intervet Italia S.r.l.

Italy 

Intervet K.K.   

Japan 

Intervet Korea Ltd.

Korea, Republic of 

Intervet Maroc

Morocco 

Intervet Mexico S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Intervet Middle East Ltd

Cyprus 

Intervet Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Intervet Norbio A.S.

Norway 

Intervet Norbio Singapore Pte Ltd

Singapore 

Intervet Norge AS

Norway 

Intervet OOO

Russian Federation 

Intervet Oy

Finland 

Intervet Pharma R   D

France 

Intervet Philippines Inc

Philippines 

Intervet Portugal   Sa de Animal, Lda

Portugal 

Intervet Productions

France 

Intervet Productions Srl

Italy 

Intervet Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Intervet Romania SRL

Romania 

Intervet Rural Co Pty Ltd

Australia 

Intervet S.R.O. (Czech Rep)

Czech Republic 

Intervet SA

Peru 

Intervet Schering-Plough Animal Health Pty Ltd

Australia 

Intervet South Africa (Pty) Limited

South Africa 

Intervet Sp. z o.o.

Poland 

Intervet UK Ltd

United Kingdom 

Intervet UK Production Ltd

United Kingdom 

Intervet Venezolana SA

Venezuela 

Intervet Veterinaria Chile Ltda

Chile 

Intervet Veteriner Ilaclari Pazarlama ve Ticaret Ltd. Sirketi

Turkey 

Intervet Vietnam Ltd.

Vietnam 

Interveterinaria SA de CV

Mexico 

Istituto Di Richerche Di Biologia Molecolare S.p.A.

Italy 

Johnson   Johnson   Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company 1 

New Jersey 

Johnson   Johnson Consumer Pharma of Canada 1 

Canada 

KBI Inc.

Delaware 

3 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

KBI Sub Inc.

Delaware 

KBI-E Inc.

Delaware 

KBI-P Inc.

Delaware 

Key Pharma AG

Switzerland 

Key Pharma, S.A.

Spain 

Key Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Florida 

Kirby Medical Products Cia. Ltda.

Chile 

Kirby Pharmaceuticals, S.A.

Spain 

Kirby-Warrick Pharmaceuticals Limited

United Kingdom 

Laboratoires Merck Sharp   Dohme-Chibret SNC

France 

Laboratorios Abello, S.A.

Spain 

Laboratorios Biopat, S.A.

Spain 

Laboratorios Chibret, S.A.

Spain 

Laboratorios Essex C.A.

Venezuela 

Laboratorios Essex S.A.

Argentina 

Laboratorios Frosst, S.A.

Spain 

Laboratorios Intervet S.A.

Spain 

Laboratorios Neurogard, S.A.

Spain 

Laboratorios Organon S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Laboratorios Quimico-Farmaceuticos Chibret, Lda.

Portugal 

Laboratorio s S.P. White s C.A.

Venezuela 

Livestock Nutrition Technologies Pty Ltd

Australia 

Loftus Bryan Chemicals Limited

Ireland 

LOSPAR Partnership 1 

Delaware 

Maple Leaf Holdings SRL

Barbados 

Matsuken Yakuhin Kogyo K.K. 1 

Japan 

Maya Tibbi Urunler Ticaret A.S.

Turkey 

MCM Vaccine Co.  1 

Pennsylvania 

MedAdvisor, Inc.

Delaware 

Med-Nim (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

Merck and Company, Incorporated

Delaware 

Merck Capital Ventures, LLC 1 

Delaware 

Merck Cardiovascular Health Company

Nevada 

Merck Frosst   Schering Pharma G.P.

Canada 

Merck Frosst Canada Ltd.

Canada 

Merck Frosst Company

Canada 

Merck Frosst Finco LP

Canada 

Merck Global Health Innovation Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Merck HDAC Research, LLC

Delaware 

Merck Holdings II Corp.

Delaware 

Merck Holdings LLC

Delaware 

Merck Respiratory Health Company

Nevada 

Merck Retail Ventures, Inc.

Delaware 

Merck SH Inc.

Delaware 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Argentina) Inc.

Delaware 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Asia) Limited

Hong Kong 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Australia) Pty. Limited

Australia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (China) Limited

Hong Kong 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Enterprises) B.V.

Netherlands 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Europe) Inc.

Delaware 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) B.V.

Netherlands 

4 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) Limited

United Kingdom 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (I.A.) Corp.

Delaware 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (International) Limited

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Investments) B.V.

Netherlands 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Ireland) Ltd.

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Israel   1996) Company Ltd.

Israel 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Italia) S.p.A.

Italy 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (New Zealand) Limited

New Zealand 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Puerto Rico) Ltd.

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Singapore) Ltd.

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Sweden) A.B.

Sweden 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Switzerland) GmbH

Switzerland 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Asia Pacific Services Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Merck Sharp   Dohme B.V.

Netherlands 

Merck Sharp   Dohme BH d.o.o.

Bosnia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Biologics (Ireland) Ltd.

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Bulgaria EOOD

Bulgaria 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Chibret A.G.

Switzerland 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Comercializadora, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

New Jersey 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Cyprus Limited

Cyprus 

Merck Sharp   Dohme d.o.o.

Croatia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme de Espana, S.A.

Spain 

Merck Sharp   Dohme de Mexico S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Merck Sharp   Dohme de Puerto Rico, Inc.

Delaware 

Merck Sharp   Dohme de Venezuela S.R.L.

Venezuela 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Farmaceutica Ltda.

Brazil 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Finance Europe Limited

United Kingdom 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Gesellschaft m.b.H.

Austria 

Merck Sharp   Dohme IDEA AG

Switzerland 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Industria Quimica e Veterinaria Limitada

Brazil 

Merck Sharp   Dohme inovativna zdravila d.o.o.

Slovenia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme International Services B.V.

Netherlands 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Ireland (Human Health) Ltd

Ireland 

Merck Sharp   Dohme  sland hf

Iceland 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Japan Co., Ltd.

Japan 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Limited

United Kingdom 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Manufacturing

Ireland 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Manufacturing Holdings

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme OU

Estonia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Peru SRL

Peru 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Pharmaceutical Industrial and Commercial Societe
Anonyme

Greece 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Pharmaceuticals LLC

Russia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Pharmaceuticals SRL

Barbados 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Quimica de Puerto Rico, Inc.

Delaware 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Research Ltd.

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Romania SRL

Romania 

Merck Sharp   Dohme S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

5 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Merck Sharp   Dohme S.A.

Morocco 

Merck Sharp   Dohme SIA

Latvia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Singapore Trading Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Tunisie Sarl

Tunisia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme, Limitada

Portugal 

Merck Sharp Dohme Ilaclari Limited Sirketi

Turkey 

Merck Technology (U.S.) Company, Inc.

Nevada 

ML Holdings (Canada) Inc.

Canada 

MSD (Italia) S.p.A.

Italy 

MSD (Italia) s.r.l.

Italy 

MSD (Nippon Holdings) BV

Netherlands 

MSD (Norge) A/S

Norway 

MSD (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

MSD (Shanghai) Pharmaceuticals Consultancy Co., Ltd.

China 

MSD (Thailand) Ltd.

Thailand 

MSD Australia Superannuation Pty Ltd.

Australia 

MSD Beteiligungs GmbH   Co KG

Germany 

MSD Biologics (UK) Ltd.

United Kingdom 

MSD Brazil (Investments) B.V.

Netherlands 

MSD Chibropharm GmbH

Germany 

MSD China (Investments) B.V.

Netherlands 

MSD Consumer Health Care Limited

United Kingdom 

MSD EIC

Ireland 

MSD Eurofinance L.P.

Bermuda 

MSD Finance B.V.

Netherlands 

MSD Finland Oy

Finland 

MSD Holdings G.K.

Japan 

MSD Holdings GmbH

Germany 

MSD International (Holdings) B.V.

Netherlands 

MSD International GmbH

Switzerland 

MSD International Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

MSD Investment Holdings (Ireland)

Ireland 

MSD Investments (Holdings) GmbH

Switzerland 

MSD Ireland (Holdings) S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

MSD Italy Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 

MSD K.K.

Japan 

MSD Korea Ltd.

Korea 

MSD Laboratories India LLC

Delaware 

MSD Latin America Services S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

MSD Limited

United Kingdom 

MSD Luxembourg S.a.r.l.

Netherlands 

MSD Magyarorsz g Kereskedelmi es Szolgaltato Kft

Hungary 

MSD Mexico (Investments) B.V.

Netherlands 

MSD Netherlands (Holding) B.V.

Netherlands 

MSD Overseas Manufacturing Co (Ireland)

Ireland 

MSD Overseas Manufacturing Co.

Bermuda 

MSD Pharmaceuticals Holdings

Ireland 

MSD Pharmaceuticals Ireland

Ireland 

MSD Pharmaceuticals LLC

Russian Federation 

6 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

MSD Pharmaceuticals Private Limited

India 

MSD Polska Sp.z.o.o.

Poland 

MSD Regional Business Support Center GmbH

Germany 

MSD Shared Business Services EMEA Limited

Ireland 

MSD Sharp   Dohme GmbH

Germany 

MSD Stamford Singapore Pte Ltd

Singapore 

MSD Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

MSD Tuas Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

MSD Unterstutzungskasse GmbH

Germany 

MSD Venezuela Holding GmbH

Switzerland 

MSD Ventures (Ireland)

Ireland 

MSD Ventures Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

MSD Verwaltungs GmbH

Germany 

MSD Vostok B.V.

Netherlands 

MSD-Essex GmbH

Switzerland 

MSD-SP Ltd.

United Kingdom 

MSP Distribution Services (C) LLC

Nevada 

MSP Singapore Company, LLC

Delaware 

MSP Technology (U.S.) Company, LLC

Delaware 

Multilan AG

Switzerland 

Mycofarm International B.V.

Netherlands 

Mycofarm Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Mycofarm UK Ltd

United Kingdom 

N.V. Organon

Netherlands 

Nanjing Organon Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.

China 

Neopharmed s.r.l.

Italy 

Nobilon International B.V.

Netherlands 

Nourifarma-Produtos Quimicos e Farmaceuticos Lda

Portugal 

Nourypharma Ltd

Ireland 

Nourypharma Ltd

United Kingdom 

Nourypharma Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

NovaCardia, Inc.

Delaware 

OBS Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 

Orgachemia B.V.

Netherlands 

Orgachemica Nigeria Ltd 1 

Nigeria 

Orgachemica Pharmaceuticals Nigeria Ltd 1 

Nigeria 

Organon (Australia) Pty Ltd

Australia 

Organon (Hong Kong) Ltd

Hong Kong 

Organon (India) Ltd 1 

India 

Organon (Ireland) Ltd

Ireland 

Organon (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Organon (Philippines) Inc.

Philippines 

Organon (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

Singapore 

Organon Agencies B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon API Inc.

Delaware 

Organon Argentina S.A.Q.I.  C.

Argentina 

Organon Asia Pacific Sdn.Bhd.

Malaysia 

Organon BioSciences B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon BioSciences International B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon BioSciences Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon BioSciences Reinsurance Limited

Ireland 

Organon BioSciences Ventures B.V.

Netherlands 

7 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Organon China B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon de Colombia Ltda

Colombia 

Organon Dominicana SA

Dominican Republic 

Organon Egypt Ltd

Egypt 

Organon Europe B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon GmbH

Germany 

Organon Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon Hungary Kereskedelmi Kft/Org. Hungary Trading Ltd

Hungary 

Organon International B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon International Inc.

Delaware 

Organon Italia S.p.A.

Italy 

Organon Laboratories Ltd

United Kingdom 

Organon Latin America S.A.

Uruguay 

Organon Middle East Ltd. Cyprus

Cyprus 

Organon Middle East S.A.L. (Lebanon)

Lebanon 

Organon Participations B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. LLC

Delaware 

Organon Portuguesa Produtos Quimicos E Farmaceuticos Ltda

Portugal 

Organon Slovakia spol. s.r.o.

Slovakia 

Organon Teknika Corporation LLC

Delaware 

Organon Teknika Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon Teknika NV

Belgium 

Organon USA Inc.

New Jersey 

P.T. Merck Sharp   Dohme Indonesia

Indonesia 

Pasteur Vaccins S.A.  1 

France 

Pharmaceutical Supply Corporation

Delaware 

Pharmaco Canada Inc.

Canada 

Pitman Moore Saude Animal Comercio e Distribuicao de Produtos
Veterinarios

Brazil 

Plough (Australia) Pty. Limited

Australia 

Plough (U.K.) Limited

United Kingdom 

Plough Consumer Products (Asia) Ltd.

Hong Kong 

Plough de Venezuela C.A.

Venezuela 

Plough Farma, Lda.

Portugal 

Plough Hellas EPE

Greece 

Protein Transaction, LLC

Delaware 

PT Intervet Indonesia

Indonesia 

PT Organon Indonesia

Indonesia 

PT Schering-Plough Indonesia Tbk.  1 

Indonesia 

Rosetta Biosoftware UK Limited

United Kingdom 

Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC

Delaware 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD A/S 1 

Denmark 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD AB 1 

Sweden 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD AG 1 

Switzerland 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD ApS 1 

Denmark 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD AS 1 

Norway 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD Gestion S.A. 1 

France 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH 1 

Austria 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH 1 

Germany 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD Ltd.  1 

United Kingdom 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD Ltd.  1 

Ireland 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD N.V./S.A.  1 

Belgium 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD Oy 1 

Finland 

8 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.A.  1 

Portugal 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.A.  1 

Spain 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.p.A.  1 

Italy 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD SNC  1 

France 

Schering Bermuda Ltd.

Bermuda 

Schering Corporation

New Jersey 

Schering Holdings Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

Schering Laboratories Advertising, Inc.

Delaware 

Schering Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

Schering MyHealth Solutions, Inc.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough

France 

Schering-Plough (Bray)

Ireland 

Schering-Plough (China) Limited

Bermuda 

Schering-Plough (India) Private Limited

India 

Schering-Plough (Ireland) Company

Ireland 

Schering-Plough (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

Schering-Plough (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd.

China 

Schering-Plough (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Schering-Plough (Singapore) Research Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Schering-Plough A/S

Denmark 

Schering-Plough A/S

Norway 

Schering-Plough Animal Health Limited

Ireland 

Schering-Plough Animal Health Limited

New Zealand 

Schering-Plough Animal Health Operations Sdn Bhd

Malaysia 

Schering-Plough Animal Health SA

Uruguay 

Schering-Plough Animal Health Sdn Bhd

Malaysia 

Schering-Plough Animal Health, Inc.

Philippines 

Schering-Plough Bermuda Ltd.

Bermuda 

Schering-Plough Biopharma Corporation

New Jersey 

Schering-Plough C.A.

Venezuela 

Schering-Plough Canada Inc.

Canada 

Schering-Plough Central East AG

Switzerland 

Schering-Plough Clinical Trials, S.E.

United Kingdom 

Schering-Plough Compania Limitada

Chile 

Schering-Plough Coordination Center NV

Belgium 

Schering-Plough Corporation

Philippines 

Schering-Plough Corporation, U.S.A.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough d.o.o.

Croatia 

Schering-Plough del Caribe, Inc.

New Jersey 

Schering-Plough del Ecuador, S.A.

Ecuador 

Schering-Plough del Peru S.A.

Peru 

Schering-Plough Exports PTY Limited

Australia 

Schering-Plough Farma, Lda

Portugal 

Schering-Plough Farmaceutica Ltda.

Brazil 

Schering-Plough HealthCare Products, Inc.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Holdings (Ireland) Company

Ireland 

Schering-Plough Holdings France

France 

Schering-Plough Holdings Limited

United Kingdom 

Schering-Plough Hungary Korlatolt Felelossegu Tarsasag

Hungary 

Schering-Plough Ind stria Farmac utica Ltda.

Brazil 

Schering-Plough Int Limited

United Kingdom 

Schering-Plough International C.V.

Netherlands 

Schering-Plough International Finance Company B.V.

Netherlands 

Schering-Plough International Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 

9 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Schering-Plough International LLC

Delaware 

Schering-Plough International, Inc.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Investment Co., Inc.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Investments Cayman Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

Schering-Plough Investments Company GmbH

Switzerland 

Schering-Plough Investments Ltd.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Israel AG

Switzerland 

Schering-Plough Korea

Korea, Republic of 

Schering-Plough Labo NV

Belgium 

Schering-Plough Legislative Resources L.L.C.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Limited

Taiwan (Republic of China) 

Schering-Plough Limited (UK)

United Kingdom 

Schering-Plough Limited C.V.

Netherlands 

Schering-Plough Ltd.

Switzerland 

Schering-Plough Ltd.

Thailand 

Schering-Plough Luxembourg S.a.r.L.

Luxembourg 

Schering-Plough Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Schering-Plough NV

Belgium 

Schering-Plough OY

Finland 

Schering-Plough Pensions Ireland Limited

Ireland 

Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

Schering-Plough Polska Sp. z o.o. LLC

Poland 

Schering-Plough Products Caribe, Inc.

Cayman Islands 

Schering-Plough Products, Inc.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Products, L.L.C.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Produtos de Oncologia, Unipessoal Lda.

Portugal 

Schering-Plough Produtos de Virologia, Unipessoal Lda.

Portugal 

Schering-Plough Produtos Hospitalares, Unipessoal Lda.

Portugal 

Schering-Plough Pty. Limited

Australia 

Schering-Plough Real Estate Co., Inc.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough S.A.

Colombia 

Schering-Plough S.A.

Panama 

Schering-Plough S.A.

Paraguay 

Schering-Plough S.A.

Spain 

Schering-Plough S.A.

Uruguay 

Schering-Plough S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Schering-Plough S.A. 1 

Argentina 

Schering-Plough S.p.A.

Italy 

Schering-Plough s.r.o.

Czech Republic 

Schering-Plough S.r.o. (Slovakia)

Slovakia 

Schering-Plough Sante Animale

France 

Schering-Plough Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Schering-Plough Superannuation Pty. Limited

Australia 

Schering-Plough Technologies Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Schering-Plough Tibbi Urunler Ticaret Anomim Sirketi

Turkey 

Schering-Plough Veterinary Limited

Thailand 

Schering-Plough, UAB

Lithuania 

Sentipharm AG

Switzerland 

Shanghai Schering-Plough Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.

China 

Sharp   Dohme, S.A.

Spain 

Sinova AG 1 

Switzerland 

Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

Delaware 

Smart Cells, Inc.

Delaware 

SOL Limited

Bermuda 

10 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

South Egypt Drug Industries Co. (Sedico)  1 

Egypt 

S-P Bermuda

Bermuda 

SP Biotech, S.A.

Spain 

SP Blue LEI 2010, S.L.

Spain 

SP Flight Operations, Inc.

Delaware 

SP Human Health (2010) Limited

United Kingdom 

SP Maroc S.a.r.L.

Morocco 

SP Products Cayman Co.

Cayman Islands 

S-P Ril Ltd.

United Kingdom 

S-P Veterinary (UK) Limited

United Kingdom 

S-P Veterinary Holdings Limited

United Kingdom 

S-P Veterinary Limited

United Kingdom 

S-P Veterinary Pensions Limited

United Kingdom 

Tasman Vaccine Laboratory (UK) Ltd

United Kingdom 

Technobiotic Limited

Australia 

TELERx Marketing Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Terimas S.r.l.

Italy 

The Coppertone Corporation

Florida 

The MSD Foundation Limited

United Kingdom 

The Summit Property Company, L.L.C.

Delaware 

Theriak B.V.

Netherlands 

Thomas Morson   Son Limited

United Kingdom 

Transrow Manufacturing Ltd.

Bermuda 

UAB  Organon 

Lithuania 

UAB Merck Sharp   Dohme

Lithuania 

Undra, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

UNICET

France 

Variopharm Arzneimittel GmbH

Germany 

VCF Inc.

Delaware 

Venco Holding GmbH

Switzerland 

Verenigde Chemische Fabrieken B.V.

Netherlands 

VetInvent, LLC

Delaware 

Vet Pharma Fiesoythe GmbH

Germany 

Veterinaria AG

Switzerland 

Vetrex B.V.

Netherlands 

Vetrex Egypt L.L.C.

Egypt 

Vetrex Limited

United Kingdom 

Warrick Pharmaceuticals Corporation

Delaware 

Werthenstein Biopharma GmbH

Switzerland 

White Laboratories of Canada Limited

Canada 

White Laboratories, Inc.

New Jersey 

Zao Organon A/O

Russian Federation 

Zo pharm B.V.

Netherlands 

11 

</EX-21>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 y87773exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CERTIFICATION 

I, Kenneth C. Frazier, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck   Co., Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 28, 2011

By:

/s/ Kenneth C. Frazier

Kenneth C. Frazier

President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 y87773exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATION 

I, Peter N. Kellogg, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck   Co., Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 28, 2011

By:

/s/ Peter N. Kellogg

Peter N. Kellogg

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 y87773exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

Section 1350 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck   Co., Inc. (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2010 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

Dated: February 28, 2011 

/s/ Kenneth C. Frazier 

Name:

Kenneth C. Frazier 

Title:

President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 y87773exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2 

Section 1350 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck   Co., Inc. (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2010 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

Dated: February 28, 2011 

/s/ Peter N. Kellogg 

Name:

Peter N. Kellogg 

Title:

Executive Vice President and 
   Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 15
 mrk-20101231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 16
 mrk-20101231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 17
 mrk-20101231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 18
 mrk-20101231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 19
 mrk-20101231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 20
 mrk-20101231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

