<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20131016_10-K_edgar_data_909832_0001445305-13-002422_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>13760601</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>259723</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3593155</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3589937</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4178848</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1930493</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>70</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001445305-13-002422.hdr.sgml : 20131016
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20131016153954
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001445305-13-002422
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20130901
FILED AS OF DATE:		20131016
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20131016

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP /NEW
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000909832
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-VARIETY STORES [5331]
		IRS NUMBER:				911223280
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0902

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20355
		FILM NUMBER:		131154211

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		999 LAKE DRIVE
		CITY:			ISSAQUAH
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98027-
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4253138100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		999 LAKE DRIVE
		CITY:			ISSAQUAH
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98027

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	COSTCO COMPANIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19970401

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PRICE/COSTCO INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19930728

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001445305-13-002422.txt : 20131016

10-K
 1
 cost10k2013.htm
 10-K

COST 10K 2013 

Table of Contents     

   UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549    
  FORM 10-K 

For the fiscal year ended   September 1, 2013    
  or 

Commission file number 0-20355 
  Costco Wholesale Corporation 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
                   Washington 
      
    91-1223280 
      (State or other jurisdiction of 
  incorporation or organization) 
      
    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 

999 Lake Drive, Issaquah, WA 98027 
  (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) 
  Registrant s telephone number, including area code:   (425) 313-8100 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of each class 
      
    Name of each exchange on 
  which registered 
      Common Stock, $.005 Par Value 
      
    The NASDAQ Global Select Market 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES         NO   o 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. YES   o     NO        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES         NO   o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). YES         NO   o 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
                   Large accelerated filer     
       
    Accelerated filer   o 
      Non-accelerated filer   o   (Do not check if a smaller company) 
       
    Smaller reporting company   o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). YES   o     NO       
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of   February 17, 2013   was   $44,218,428,626    
  The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s common stock as of   October 9, 2013   was   436,922,037    
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on January 30, 2014, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K. 
  
       Table of Contents     

   COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED   SEPTEMBER 1, 2013    
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 
       PART I  

Item 1. 
     Business  
    4 
      
      Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    9 
      
      Item 1B. 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    14 
      
      Item 2. 
     Properties  
    15 
      
      Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    15 
      
      Item 4. 
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    15 

PART II  

Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    16 
      
      Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    17 
      
      Item 7. 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    18 
      
      Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    28 
      
      Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    29 
      
      Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    29 
      
      Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    29 
      
      Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
    30 

PART III  

Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    31 
      
      Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
    31 
      
      Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    31 
      
      Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    31 
      
      Item 14. 
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
    31 

PART IV  

Item 15. 
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  
    31 

2 

       Table of Contents     

   INFORMATION RELATING TO FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS 
  Certain statements contained in this Report constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. They include statements that address activities, events, conditions or developments that we expect or anticipate may occur in the future and may relate to such matters as sales growth, increases in comparable store sales, cannibalization of existing locations by new openings, price or fee changes, earnings performance, earnings per share, stock-based compensation expense, warehouse openings and closures, the amount we expect to spend on our expansion plans, the effect of adopting certain accounting standards, future financial reporting, financing, margins, return on invested capital, strategic direction, expense controls, membership renewal rates, shopping frequency, litigation impact and the demand for our products and services. Forward-looking statements may also be identified by the words  believe,   project,   expect,   anticipate,   estimate,   intend,   strategy,   future,   opportunity,   plan,   may,   should,   will,   would,   will be,   will continue,   will likely result,  and similar expressions. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results, or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements, including, without limitation, the factors set forth in the section titled  Item 1A-Risk Factors , and other factors noted in the section titled  Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and in the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. 
    
    3 

       Table of Contents     

   PART I 
    Item 1 Business 
  Costco Wholesale Corporation and its subsidiaries (Costco or the Company) began operations in 1983 in Seattle, Washington. We are principally engaged in the operation of membership warehouses in the United States (U.S.) and Puerto Rico, Canada, the United Kingdom (U.K.), Mexico, Japan, Australia, and through majority-owned subsidiaries in Taiwan and Korea. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol  COST.  
  In 2011 and prior to the July 2012 acquisition of the 50% noncontrolling interest in our joint venture in Mexico, the financial position and results of Mexico's operations were consolidated, and the joint venture partner's share was included in "net income attributable to noncontrolling interests" in the consolidated statements of income. Subsequent to the acquisition, we have included 100% of Mexico's operations within "net income attributable to Costco" in the consolidated statements of income. 
  We report on a 52/53-week fiscal year, consisting of thirteen, four-week periods and ending on the Sunday nearest the end of August. The first three quarters consist of three periods each, and the fourth quarter consists of four periods (five weeks in the thirteenth period in a 53-week year). The material seasonal impact in our operations is an increased level of net sales and earnings during the winter holiday season. References to 2013 and 2011 relate to the 52-week fiscal years ended September 1, 2013 and  August 28, 2011, respectively. References to 2012 relate to the 53-week fiscal year ended September 2, 2012.  
  General 
  We operate membership warehouses based on the concept that offering our members low prices on a limited selection of nationally branded and select private-label products in a wide range of merchandise categories will produce high sales volumes and rapid inventory turnover. This turnover, when combined with the operating efficiencies achieved by volume purchasing, efficient distribution and reduced handling of merchandise in no-frills, self-service warehouse facilities, enables us to operate profitably at significantly lower gross margins than traditional wholesalers, mass merchandisers, supermarkets, and supercenters. 
  We buy the majority of our merchandise directly from manufacturers and route it to a cross-docking consolidation point (depot) or directly to our warehouses. Our depots receive container-based shipments from manufacturers and reallocate these goods for shipment to our individual warehouses, generally in less than twenty-four hours. This process maximizes freight volume and handling efficiencies, eliminating many of the costs associated with traditional multiple-step distribution channels. Such traditional steps include purchasing from distributors as opposed to manufacturers, use of central receiving, storing and distributing warehouses, and storage of merchandise in locations off the sales floor. 
  Because of our high sales volume and rapid inventory turnover, we generally sell inventory before we are required to pay many of our merchandise vendors, even though we take advantage of early payment discounts when available. To the extent that sales increase and inventory turnover becomes more rapid, a greater percentage of inventory is financed through payment terms provided by suppliers rather than by our working capital. 
  Our typical warehouse format averages approximately 143,000 square feet; newer units tend to be slightly larger. Floor plans are designed for economy and efficiency in the use of selling space, the handling of merchandise, and the control of inventory. Because shoppers are attracted principally by the quality of merchandise and the availability of low prices, our warehouses are not elaborate facilities. By strictly controlling the entrances and exits of our warehouses and using a membership format, we have limited inventory losses (shrinkage) to amounts well below those of typical discount retail operations. 
  Marketing and promotional activities generally relate to new warehouse openings, occasional direct mail to prospective new members, and regular direct marketing programs (such as The Costco Connection, a magazine we publish for our members, coupon mailers, emails from costco.com, costco.ca, and costco.co.uk, and handouts) to existing members promoting selected merchandise. 
  Our warehouses generally operate on a seven-day, 69-hour week, open weekdays between 10:00 a.m. and 8:30 p.m., with earlier weekend closing hours. Gasoline operations generally have extended hours. Because the hours of operation are shorter than those of traditional retailers, discount retailers and supermarkets, and due to other efficiencies inherent in a warehouse-type operation, labor costs are lower relative to the volume of sales. Merchandise is generally stored on racks above the sales floor and displayed on pallets containing large quantities, thereby reducing labor required for handling and stocking. 
  Our strategy is to provide our members with a broad range of high quality merchandise at prices consistently lower than they can obtain elsewhere. We seek to limit specific items in each product line to fast-selling models, sizes, and colors. Therefore,  
    4 

     Table of Contents     
    
  Item 1 Business (Continued) 

   we carry an average of approximately 3,700 active stock keeping units (SKUs) per warehouse in our core warehouse business, as opposed to a significantly higher number of SKUs at discount retailers, supermarkets, and supercenters. Many consumable products are offered for sale in case, carton, or multiple-pack quantities only. 
  In keeping with our policy of member satisfaction, we generally accept returns of merchandise. On certain electronic items, we typically have a 90-day return policy and provide, free of charge, technical support services, as well as an extended warranty. Additional third-party warranty coverage is sold on certain electronic item purchases. 
  The following table indicates the approximate percentage of annual net sales accounted for by major category of items: 

2013 
      
    2012 
      
    2011 
      Sundries   (including candy, snack foods, tobacco, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages and cleaning and institutional supplies) 
    22 
    % 
      
    22 
    % 
      
    22 
    % 
      Hardlines   (including major appliances, electronics, health and beauty aids, hardware, office supplies, cameras, garden and patio, sporting goods, toys, seasonal items and automotive supplies) 
    16 
    % 
      
    16 
    % 
      
    17 
    % 
      Food   (including dry and institutionally packaged foods) 
    21 
    % 
      
    21 
    % 
      
    21 
    % 
      Softlines   (including apparel, domestics, jewelry, housewares, media, home furnishings and small appliances) 
    11 
    % 
      
    10 
    % 
      
    10 
    % 
      Fresh Food   (including meat, bakery, deli and produce) 
    13 
    % 
      
    13 
    % 
      
    12 
    % 
      Ancillary and Other   (including gas stations, pharmacy, food court, optical, one-hour photo, hearing aid and travel) 
    17 
    % 
      
    18 
    % 
      
    18 
    % 

Ancillary businesses within or next to our warehouses provide expanded products and services and encourage members to shop more frequently. The following table indicates the number of ancillary businesses in operation at fiscal year-end: 

Our online business, which operates websites in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K., provide our members additional products, many not found in our warehouses. These products vary by country and include services such as photo center, pharmacy, travel, business delivery, and membership services. Net sales for our online business were approximately 3% of our consolidated net sales. 
  In general and depending on the country, our warehouses accept cash, checks, certain debit cards, American Express, or a private label Costco credit card. Losses associated with dishonored checks have been minimal, as members who have issued dishonored checks are identified and prevented from making further purchases until restitution is made. 
  We have direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand-name merchandise. We do not obtain a significant portion of merchandise from any one supplier. We have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of merchandise, and believe that if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would be able to obtain alternative sources without substantial disruption of our business. We also purchase private label merchandise, as long as quality and customer demand are comparable and the value to our members is greater as compared to brand-name items. 
  Certain financial information for our segments and geographic areas is included in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. 
    5 

     Table of Contents     
    
  Item 1 Business (Continued) 

   Membership  
  Our membership format is designed to reinforce member loyalty and provide continuing fee revenue. Members can utilize their membership at any Costco warehouse location in any country. We have two types of members: Business and Gold Star (individual). Business membership is limited to businesses, including individuals with a business license, retail sales license or other evidence of business existence. Business members pay an annual membership fee of approximately $55 for the primary cardholder, and have the ability to add additional cardholders (add-ons) for an annual fee of approximately $55 each. Gold Star memberships are also available for an annual fee of approximately $55 to individuals who may not qualify for a Business membership, however add-ons are not available for Gold Star memberships. All paid memberships include a free household card.  
  Our member renewal rate was approximately   90%   in the U.S. and Canada, and approximately   86%   on a worldwide basis in   2013  . The renewal rate is a trailing calculation that captures renewals during the period seven to eighteen months prior to the reporting date.  
  Our membership was made up of the following (in thousands): 

All members are eligible for an Executive membership, with the exception of Business add-on members, in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, and the United Kingdom, for an annual fee of approximately $110. Executive members qualify for a 2% annual reward (which can be redeemed at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases. This program also offers (except in Mexico) additional savings and benefits on various business and consumer services, such as check printing services, the Costco auto purchase program, auto and home insurance, online investing and identity protection. The services are generally provided by third-parties and vary by country and state. At the end of   2013  ,   2012  , and   2011  , Executive members represented   38%   of eligible cardholders. Executive members generally spend more than other members, and the percentage of our net sales attributable to these members continues to increase. 
  Effective November 1, 2011, for new members, and January 1, 2012, for renewing members, we increased our annual membership fee in the U.S. and Canada. Please refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis in Item 7 of this Report for further explanation of the change and its impact. 
  Labor 
  Our employee count approximated: 

Approximately   13,800   hourly employees in certain of our locations in   five   states are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. All remaining employees are non-union. We consider our employee relations to be very good. 
    6 

     Table of Contents     
    
  Item 1 Business (Continued) 

   Competition 
  Our industry is highly competitive, based on factors such as price, merchandise quality and selection, warehouse location and member service. We compete with over 800 warehouse club locations across the U.S. and Canada (primarily Wal-Mart s Sam s Club and BJ s Wholesale Club), and every major metropolitan area has multiple club operations. In addition, we compete with a wide range of global, national and regional wholesalers and retailers, including supermarkets, supercenter stores, department and specialty stores, gasoline stations, and internet-based retailers. Competitors such as Wal-Mart, Target, Kohl s and Amazon.com are among our significant general merchandise retail competitors. We also compete with operators selling a single category or narrow range of merchandise, such as Lowe s, Home Depot, Office Depot, PetSmart, Staples, Kroger, Trader Joe s, Whole Foods, CVS, Walgreens and Best Buy. Our international operations face similar competition. 
  Intellectual Property 
  We believe that, to varying degrees, our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, proprietary processes, trade secrets, patents, trade dress, domain names and similar intellectual property add significant value to our business and are important factors in our success. We have invested significantly in the development and protection of our well-recognized brands, including the Costco Wholesale        series of trademarks and our private label brand, Kirkland Signature       . We believe that Kirkland Signature products are premium products offered to our members at prices that are generally lower than those for national brand products and that they help lower costs, differentiate our merchandise offerings from other retailers, and generally earn higher margins. We expect to increase the sales penetration of our private label items in the future. 
  We rely on trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our suppliers, employees and others to protect our proprietary rights. The availability and duration of trademark registrations vary from country to country; however, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and their registrations are properly maintained. 
  Available Information 
  Our internet website is www.costco.com. We make available through the Investor Relations section of that site, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with, or furnishing such documents to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 
  We have adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers pursuant to Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Copies of the code are available free of charge by writing to Secretary, Costco Wholesale Corporation, 999 Lake Drive, Issaquah, WA 98027. If the Company makes any amendments to this code (other than technical, administrative, or non-substantive amendments) or grants any waivers, including implicit waivers, from this code to the CEO, chief financial officer or controller, we will disclose (on our website or in a Form 8-K report filed with the SEC) the nature of the amendment or waiver, its effective date, and to whom it applies. 
    7 

     Table of Contents     
    
  Item 1 Business (Continued) 

   Executive Officers of the Registrant 
  The executive officers of Costco, their position, and ages are listed below. All executive officers have 25 or more years of service with the Company.  
    
                           Name 
      
    Position 
      
    Executive 
  Officer 
  Since 
      
    Age 
      W. Craig Jelinek 
      
    President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Jelinek has been President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2012 and has been a director since February 2010. He was President and Chief Operating Officer from February 2010 to December 2011. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising since 2004. 
      
    1995 
      
    61 
      Jeffrey H. Brotman 
      
    Chairman of the Board. Mr. Brotman is a co-founder of Costco and has been a director since its inception. 
      
    1983 
      
    71 
      Richard A. Galanti 
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Galanti has been a director since January 1995. 
      
    1993 
      
    57 
      Franz Lazarus 
      
    Executive Vice President, Administration. Mr. Lazarus was Senior Vice President, Administration-Global Operations since 2006. 
      
    2012 
      
    66 
      John McKay 
      
    Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Northern Division. Mr. McKay was Senior Vice President, General Manager, Northwest Region from 2000 to March 2010. 
      
    2010 
      
    56 
      Paul G. Moulton 
      
    Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer. Mr. Moulton was Executive Vice President, Real Estate Development until March 2010. 
      
    2001 
      
    62 
      James P. Murphy 
      
    Executive Vice President, International. Mr. Murphy was Senior Vice President, International, from September 2004 to October 2010. 
      
    2011 
      
    60 
      Joseph P. Portera 
      
    Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Eastern and Canadian Divisions. Chief Diversity Officer since 2010. 
      
    1994 
      
    61 
      Timothy L. Rose 
      
    Executive Vice President, Ancillary Businesses, Manufacturing, and Business Centers. Mr. Rose was Senior Vice President, Merchandising, Food and Sundries and Private Label from 1995 to December 2012.  
      
    2013 
      
    61 
      Douglas W. Schutt 
      
    Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising. Mr. Schutt was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Northern Division and Midwest Region from 2004 to March 2010. 
      
    2004 
      
    54 
      Thomas K. Walker 
      
    Executive Vice President, Construction and Distribution. Mr. Walker retired as of September 2013. 
      
    2004 
      
    73 
      Dennis R. Zook 
      
    Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Southwest Division and Mexico. 
      
    1993 
      
    64 

8 

       Table of Contents     
    
  Item 1A Risk Factors  

   The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks are not the only risks that we face. We could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. You should review these Risk Factors carefully in conjunction with Management  '  s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item     7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item     8 of this Report. 
  Business and Operating Risks 
  We are highly dependent on the financial performance of our U.S. and Canadian operations. 
  Our financial and operational performance is highly dependent on our U.S. and Canadian operations, which comprised 88% and 84% of consolidated net sales and operating income in 2013, respectively. Within the U.S., we are highly dependent on our California operations, which comprised 23% of consolidated net sales in 2013. Our California market, in general, has a larger percentage of higher volume warehouses as compared to our other markets. Any substantial slowing or sustained decline in these operations could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Declines in financial performance of our U.S. operations, particularly in California, and our Canadian operations could arise from, among other things: failing to meet targets for warehouse openings; declines in actual or estimated comparable warehouse sales growth rates and expectations; negative trends in operating expenses, including increased labor, healthcare and energy costs; cannibalizing existing locations with new warehouses; shifts in sales mix toward lower gross margin products; changes or uncertainties in economic conditions in our markets, including higher levels of unemployment and depressed home values; and failing to consistently provide high quality products and innovative new products to retain our existing member base and attract new members. 
  We may be unsuccessful implementing our growth strategy, including expanding our business, both in existing markets and in new markets, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  Our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to acquire property, and build or lease new warehouses. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction and operation of our warehouses, as well as local community actions opposed to the location of our warehouses at specific sites and the adoption of local laws restricting our operations and environmental regulations may impact our ability to find suitable locations, and increase the cost of constructing, leasing and operating our warehouses. We also may have difficulty negotiating leases or real estate purchase agreements on acceptable terms. In addition, certain jurisdictions have enacted or proposed laws and regulations that would prevent or restrict the operation or expansion plans of certain large retailers and warehouse clubs, including us, within their jurisdictions. Failure to manage these and other similar factors effectively may affect our ability to timely build or lease new warehouses, which could have a material adverse effect on our future growth and profitability. 
  We seek to expand our business in existing markets in order to attain a greater overall market share. Because our warehouses typically draw members from their local areas, a new warehouse may draw members away from our existing warehouses and adversely affect comparable warehouse sales performance and member traffic at those existing warehouses. 
  We also intend to open warehouses in new markets. The risks associated with entering a new market include difficulties in attracting members due to a lack of familiarity with us, attracting members of other wholesale club operators currently operating in the new market, our lack of familiarity with local member preferences, and seasonal differences in the market. In addition, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. In new markets, we cannot ensure that our new warehouses will be profitably deployed and, as a result, our future profitability could be delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected. 
  Our failure to maintain positive membership loyalty and brand recognition could adversely affect our results of operations. 
  Membership loyalty is essential to our business model. Damage to our brands or reputation may negatively impact comparable warehouse sales, lower employee morale and productivity, diminish member trust, and reduce member renewal rates and, accordingly, membership fee revenues, resulting in a reduction in shareholder value. 
  In addition, we sell many products under our owned and exclusive Kirkland Signature brand. Maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of our Kirkland Signature products for our customers is essential to developing and  
    9 

       Table of Contents     
    
  Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued) 

   maintaining customer loyalty. These products also generally carry higher margins than national brand products and represent a growing portion of our overall sales. If the Kirkland Signature brand experiences a loss of consumer acceptance or confidence, our sales and gross margin results could be adversely affected. 
  Disruptions in our depot operations could adversely affect sales and member satisfaction. 
  We depend on the orderly operation of the merchandise receiving and distribution process, primarily through our depots. Although we believe that our receiving and distribution process is efficient, unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fires, hurricanes, earthquakes or other catastrophic events, labor shortages or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our warehouses, which could adversely affect sales and the satisfaction of our members. 
  We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Failure to adequately update our systems and disruptions in both our primary and back-up systems could harm our ability to run our business and adversely affect our results of operations. 
  Although we believe that we have independent, redundant primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year it is important that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, and errors by our employees. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption in our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 
  We are currently making, and will continue to make, significant technology investments to transform our information processes and systems that are key to managing our business. We must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. Excessive technological change could impact the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from the technology. Targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs could result in the loss of our competitive position and adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. These initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost. 
  If we do not maintain the privacy and security of member-related and business information, we could damage our reputation with members, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. 
  We receive, retain, and transmit certain personal information about our members and entrust that information to third party business associates, including cloud service providers who perform these activities for us. Our online business, which operates websites in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K., depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems or those of our business  associates that results in our members  '   personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our members and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to the security of information systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online business. 
  Additionally, the use of individually identifiable data by our business and our business associates is regulated at the national and local or state level in all of our operating countries.     Privacy and information security laws and regulations change, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we, or those with whom we share information, fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to additional legal risk as a result of non-compliance. 
  Our security measures may be undermined due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate business and personal information. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or  
    10 

       Table of Contents     
    
  Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued) 

   to implement adequate preventative measures. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and potentially have an adverse effect on our business.  
    
  We are subject to payment related risks. 
  We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash and checks, various select credit and debit cards, and our proprietary cash card. As we offer new payment options to our members, we may be subject to additional rules, regulations, compliance requirements, and higher fraud losses. For certain payment methods, we pay interchange and other related card acceptance fees, along with additional transaction processing fees which may increase over time and raise our operating costs. We rely on third parties to provide payment transaction processing services, including the processing of credit and debit cards, and our proprietary cash card, and it could temporarily disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association rules and network operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change over time. If we fail to comply with these rules or transaction processing requirements, we may not be able to accept certain payment methods.  In addition, if our internal systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for banks' compromised card re-issuance costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and/or debit card payments from our members, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 
  We are subject to the risks of selling unsafe products which could result in illness or injury to our members, harm our reputation and subject us to litigation. 
  If our merchandise offerings, including food and prepared food products for human consumption, drugs, children  '  s products, and pet products, do not meet or are perceived not to meet applicable safety standards or our members  '   expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales, increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. The sale of these items involves the risk of health-related illness or injury to our members. Such illnesses or injuries could result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, manufacturing, storage, handling and transportation phases. Our vendors are generally contractually required to comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and work to comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness or injury in the future or that we will not be subject to claims, lawsuits or government investigations relating to such matters resulting in costly product recalls and other liabilities that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential members and our corporate and brand image and these effects could be long term. 
  If we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant multichannel experience for our members, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. 
  Multichannel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing member expectations and new developments by our competitors. Our members are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones, and other devices to shop online. As part of our multichannel strategy, we are making technology investments in our websites and recently launched a mobile application for mobile phones and other electronic devices. If we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant member-facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected.  
  Our inability to attract, train and retain highly qualified employees could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued contributions of members of our senior management and other key operations, merchandising and administrative personnel, and the loss of any such person(s) could have a material adverse effect on our business. Other than an annual agreement with our CEO, Mr.     Jelinek, we have no employment agreements with our officers. We must attract, train and retain a large and growing number of highly qualified employees, while controlling related labor costs and maintaining our core values. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including regulatory changes, prevailing wage rates, and healthcare and other insurance costs. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified employees in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key man insurance. 
    11 

       Table of Contents     
    
  Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued) 

   Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. 
  We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable warehouse sales growth rates, margins, earnings and earnings per share or new warehouse openings could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase policies. 
    
  Market and Other External Risks 
  We face strong competition from other retailers and warehouse club operators, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for members, employees, sites, products and services and in other important respects with a wide range of local, regional and national wholesalers and retailers, both in the United States and in foreign countries, including other warehouse club operators, supermarkets, supercenter stores, department and specialty stores, gasoline stations, and internet-based retailers. Such retailers and warehouse club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise pricing, selection and availability, services, location, convenience, and store hours. The evolution of retailing in online and mobile channels has improved the ability of members to comparison shop with digital tools, which has enhanced competition. Our inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, changes in the retail markets and member expectations could result in lost market share and negatively affect our financial results. Some competitors may have greater financial resources, better access to merchandise and greater market penetration than we do. 
  General economic factors, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  Higher energy costs, inflation, levels of unemployment, healthcare costs, consumer debt levels, foreign currency exchange rates, unsettled financial markets, weaknesses in housing and real estate markets, reduced consumer confidence, changes related to government fiscal and tax policies, sovereign debt crises, and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services or require a change in the mix of products we sell. Prices of certain commodity products, including gasoline and other food products, are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations, taxes and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices may affect our sales and profit margins. These factors could also increase our merchandise costs and/or selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial results. General economic conditions can also be affected by the outbreak of war, acts of terrorism, or other significant national or international events. 
  We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. 
  It is difficult to consistently and successfully predict the products and services our members will demand. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and respond to trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including those relating to sustainability of product sources) and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services and our market share. If we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases accordingly, we may have excess inventory, which could result in additional markdowns and reduce our operating performance. This could have an adverse effect on margins (net sales less merchandise costs) and operating income. 
  Vendors may be unable to supply us with quality merchandise at the right prices in a timely manner or may fail to adhere to our high standards resulting in adverse effects on our business, merchandise inventories, sales and profit margins. 
  We depend heavily on our ability to purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We have no assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could at any time change the terms upon which it sells to us or discontinue selling to us. Member demands may lead to out-of-stock positions of our merchandise leading to loss of sales and profits. 
    12 

       Table of Contents     
    
  Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued) 

   We purchase our merchandise from numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers and importers and have thousands of vendor relationships. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of key vendors could negatively affect us. We may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality or more expensive than those from existing vendors. Because of our efforts to adhere to high quality standards for which available supply may be limited, particularly for certain food items, the large volume we demand may not be consistently available. 
  Our suppliers are subject to risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activities, financial liquidity, inclement weather, natural disasters, supply constraints, and general economic and political conditions that could limit their ability to timely provide us with acceptable merchandise. For these or other reasons, one or more of our suppliers might not adhere to our quality control, legal or regulatory standards. These deficiencies may delay or preclude delivery of merchandise to us and might not be identified before we sell such merchandise to our members. This failure could lead to litigation and recalls, which could damage our reputation and our brands, increase our costs, and otherwise adversely impact our business. 
  Natural disasters or other catastrophic events could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, typhoons or earthquakes, particularly in California or in Washington state, where our centralized operating systems and administrative personnel are located, could negatively affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the temporary closure of one or more warehouses or depots, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local or overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods to or from overseas, delays in the delivery of goods to our warehouses or depots within the countries in which we operate, and the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our warehouses. Public health issues, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or members, or have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels. These events could also reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible to receive products from suppliers. We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  Factors associated with climate change could adversely affect our business. 
  We use natural gas, diesel fuel, gasoline, and electricity in our distribution and warehouse operations. Increased U.S and foreign government and agency regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions may result in increased compliance costs and legislation or regulation affecting energy inputs that could materially affect our profitability. In addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience. We also sell a substantial amount of gasoline, the demand for which could be impacted by concerns about climate change and which also could face increased regulation. Climate change may be associated with extreme weather conditions, such as more intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels. Extreme weather conditions increase our costs and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured. 
  Legal and Regulatory Risks 
  Our international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic factors specific to the countries or regions in which we operate which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  During 2013, our international operations, including Canada, generated 28% of our consolidated net sales. We plan to continue expanding our international operations. As a result of these expansion activities in countries outside the U.S., we expect that our international operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. Future operating results internationally could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, many similar to those we face in the U.S., but many of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, regulatory constraints, currency regulations and exchange rates, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Other factors that may impact international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies and the laws and regulations of the U.S. and foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities located in countries which have been historically less stable than the U.S. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences, and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our future costs or on future profits and cash flows from our international operations. 
    13 

       Table of Contents     
    
  Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued) 

   Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. 
  Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, impairment of long-lived assets, merchandise inventories, vendor rebates and other vendor consideration, self-insurance liabilities, income taxes, unclaimed property laws and litigation, and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. 
  Provisions for losses related to self-insured risks are generally based upon independent actuarially determined estimates. The assumptions underlying the ultimate costs of existing claim losses can be highly unpredictable, which can affect the liability recorded for such claims. For example, variability in inflation rates of health care costs inherent in these claims can affect the amounts realized. Similarly, changes in legal trends and interpretations, as well as a change in the nature and method of how claims are settled can impact ultimate costs. Although our estimates of liabilities incurred do not anticipate significant changes in historical trends for these variables, any changes could have a considerable effect upon future claim costs and currently recorded liabilities and could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. 
  We could be subject to additional income tax liabilities. 
  We compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the countries in which we operate. As the tax rates vary among countries, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. Additionally, any change in the enacted tax rates, any adverse outcome in connection with any income tax audits in any jurisdiction, including transfer pricing disputes, or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
  Significant changes in, or failure to comply with, federal, state, regional, local and international laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials, hazardous and non-hazardous wastes and other environmental matters could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, regional, local and international laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials, hazardous and non-hazardous wastes and other environmental matters. Any failure to comply with these laws could result in significant costs to satisfy environmental compliance, remediation or compensatory requirements, or the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on operations by governmental agencies or courts that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits and, while we cannot predict the outcomes of such proceedings and other contingencies with certainty, some of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  Our business requires compliance with a great variety of laws and regulations. Failure to achieve compliance could subject us to lawsuits and other proceedings, and lead to damage awards, fines and penalties. We are, or may become involved, in a number of legal proceedings and audits including grand jury investigations, government and agency investigations, and consumer, employment, tort and other litigation (see discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item     8 of this Report). We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, including environmental remediation and other proceedings commenced by governmental authorities. The outcome of some of these legal proceedings, audits, unclaimed property laws, and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management  '  s attention and resources. 
    Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 
  None. 
    14 

       Table of Contents     

   Item 2 Properties 
  Warehouse Properties 
  At   September 1, 2013  , we operated   634   membership warehouses: 
  NUMBER OF WAREHOUSES    

_______________ 
           (1) 
    95   of the   136   leases are land-leases only, where Costco owns the building. 
     The following schedule shows warehouse openings for the past five fiscal years and expected warehouse openings through   December 31, 2013  : 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Net of closings. 
              (2) 
    2011 includes 32 Mexico warehouses in operation at the beginning of the year, when we began consolidating Mexico. These 32 warehouses were opened in 2009 and prior. 
     At the end of   2013  , our warehouses contained approximately   90.8 million   square feet of operating floor space:   65.5 million   in the U.S.;   11.7 million   in Canada; and   13.6 million   in other international locations. Additionally, we operate regional cross-docking facilities (depots) for the consolidation and distribution of most merchandise shipments to the warehouses, and various processing, packaging, and other facilities to support ancillary and other businesses. We operate   22   depots consisting of approximately   9.0 million   square feet. Our executive offices are located in Issaquah, Washington and we operate   16   regional offices in the U.S., Canada and other international locations. 
    Item 3 Legal Proceedings 
  See discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. 
    Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 
  Not applicable. 
    15 

       Table of Contents     

   PART II 
    Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  Market Information and Dividend Policy 
  Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol  COST.  On   October 9, 2013  , we had   8,198   stockholders of record. 
  The following table shows the quarterly high and low closing sale prices as reported by NASDAQ for each quarter during the last two fiscal years and the quarterly cash dividend declared per share of our common stock. 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    The amount shown includes a special cash dividend of $7.00 per share. 
       Payment of future dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors. Factors considered in determining dividends are our profitability and expected capital needs. Subject to these qualifications, we presently expect to continue to pay dividends on a quarterly basis. 
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  There was no stock repurchase activity in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013.  
    16 

       Table of Contents     

   Item 6 Selected Financial Data 
  The following table sets forth certain information concerning our consolidated financial condition, operating results, and key operating metrics. This information should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in Item 7 of this Report, and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, included in Item 8 of this Report. 
  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
  (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data) 

_______________ 
            (2) 
    Includes net sales at warehouses open more than one year, including relocations, remodels, and expansions, as well as online sales. For fiscal 2013 and 2012, the prior year includes the comparable 52 and 53 weeks, respectively. 
               (4) 
    Excludes in 2010 and 2009 warehouses operated in Mexico through a 50% owned joint venture. Mexico opened 32 of these warehouses in 2009 and prior. The 2011 beginning-of-year figure includes these warehouses consolidated at the beginning of the fiscal year. 
              (5) 
    Includes warehouse relocations and the closure in July 2009 of two Costco Home locations. 
       17 

       Table of Contents     

   Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (amounts in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data)  
    OVERVIEW 
  We believe that the most important driver of increasing our profitability is sales growth, particularly comparable sales growth.  We define comparable warehouse sales as sales from warehouses open for more than one year, including remodels, relocations and expansions, as well as online sales.   Comparable sales growth is achieved through increasing the frequency with which our members shop and the amounts that they spend on each visit. Sales comparisons can also be particularly influenced by two factors that are beyond our control, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates (with respect to the consolidation of the results of our international operations) and changes in the cost of gasoline and associated competitive conditions (primarily impacting domestic operations). The higher our comparable sales exclusive of currency fluctuations, the more we can leverage certain of our selling, general and administrative expenses, reducing them as a percentage of sales and enhancing profitability. Generating comparable sales growth is foremost a question of making available to our members the right merchandise at the right prices, a skill that we believe we have repeatedly demonstrated over the long term. Another substantial factor in sales growth is the health of the economies in which we do business, especially the United States. Sales growth and gross margins are also impacted by our competition, which is vigorous and widespread, including a wide range of global, national and regional wholesalers and retailers, including supermarkets, supercenter stores, and department and specialty stores, gasoline stations, and internet-based retailers. While we cannot control or reliably predict general economic health or changes in competition, we believe that we have been successful historically in adapting our business to these changes, such as through adjustments to our pricing and to our merchandise mix, including increasing the penetration of our private label items. Our philosophy is not to focus in the short term on maximizing prices that our members can be charged, but to maintain what we believe is a perception among our members of our  pricing authority    consistently providing the most competitive values. This may cause us, for example, to absorb increases in merchandise costs at certain times rather than immediately passing them along to our members, negatively impacting gross margin. 
  We also achieve sales growth by opening new warehouses and, to a much lesser extent, relocating existing warehouses to larger and better-located facilities. As our warehouse base grows, available and desirable potential sites become more difficult to secure, and square footage growth becomes a comparatively less substantial component of growth. However, the negative aspects of such growth, including lower initial operating profitability relative to existing warehouses and cannibalization of sales at existing warehouses when openings occur in existing markets, are lessened. Our rate of square footage growth is higher in foreign markets, due to the smaller base in those markets, and we expect that to continue. 
  Our financial performance also depends heavily on our ability to control costs. While we believe that we have achieved successes in this area historically, some significant costs are partially outside our control, most particularly health care and utility expenses. With respect to expenses relating to the compensation of our employees, our philosophy is not to seek to minimize the wages and benefits that they earn. Rather, we believe that achieving our longer-term objectives of reducing employee turnover and enhancing employee satisfaction requires maintaining compensation levels that are better than the industry average for much of our workforce. This may cause us, for example, to absorb costs that other employers might seek to pass through to their workforces. Because our business is operated on very low margins, modest changes in various items in the income statement, particularly gross margin and selling, general and administrative expenses, can have substantial impacts on net income. 
  Our operating model is generally the same across our U.S., Canada, and Other International operating segments (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). Certain countries in the Other International segment have relatively higher rates of square footage growth, lower wages and benefit costs as a percentage of country sales, and/or less direct membership warehouse competition. Additionally, we operate our lower-margin gasoline business only in the United States and Canada.    
  In discussions of our consolidated operating results, we refer to the impact of changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, which are references to the differences between the foreign-exchange rates we use to convert the financial results of our international operations from local currencies into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. This impact of foreign-exchange rate changes is typically calculated as the difference between the current period's currency exchange rates and the comparable prior-year period's currency exchange rates. 
  Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to August 31. Fiscal years   2013   and 2011 were 52-week fiscal years ending on   September 1, 2013   and August 28, 2011, respectively, while fiscal year   2012   was a 53-week fiscal year ending on September 2, 2012. Certain percentages presented are calculated using actual results prior to rounding. Unless otherwise noted, references to net income relate to net income attributable to Costco. 
    18 

     Table of Contents  
  Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (amounts in millions, except per share and share data, membership fee data, and warehouse number data)   (Continued) 

Highlights for fiscal year 2013 included: 

Net sales increased 6% to $102,870, driven by a 6% increase in comparable sales and sales at warehouses opened in 2012 and 2013, partially offset by the impact of one additional week of sales in 2012. Net sales were negatively impacted by changes in certain foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar; 
                
    Membership fees increased 10% to $2,286, primarily due to the impact of raising our annual membership fees and   membership sign-ups at both existing and new warehouses. These increases were partially offset by the impact of one additional week of fees in 2012;   
                
    Gross margin (net sales less merchandise costs) as a percentage of net sales increased seven basis points;  
                
    Selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses as a percentage of net sales increased one basis point; 
          
    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  Net Sales 

_______________ 
            (2) 
    The percentage increase in net sales for 2011 was positively impacted by the initial consolidation of Mexico beginning in fiscal 2011. Excluding Mexico, the International and Total Company increases in net sales would have been 18% and 11%, respectively. 
       19 

     Table of Contents  
  Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (amounts in millions, except per share and share data, membership fee data, and warehouse number data)   (Continued) 

2013 vs. 2012 
  Net Sales 
  Net sales increased $5,808 or 6% during 2013 compared to 2012. This increase was attributable to a 6% increase in comparable warehouse sales and sales at warehouses opened in 2012 and  2013, partially offset by the impact of one additional week of sales in 2012.  
  Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted net sales by approximately $208, or 21 basis points during 2013. The negative impact was primarily due to the Japanese yen of approximately $354, partially offset by a positive impact of the Mexican peso of approximately $127. Changes in gasoline prices were immaterial to the change in net sales. 
  Comparable Sales 
  Comparable sales increased 6% during 2013 and were positively impacted by increases in both shopping frequency and the                        average amount spent by our members. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and gasoline prices were immaterial to the change in comparable sales. The increase in comparable sales includes the negative impact of cannibalization (established warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations). 
  2012 vs. 2011 
  Net Sales 
  Net sales increased $10,014 or 12% during 2012 compared to 2011. This increase was attributable to a 7% increase in comparable warehouse sales, sales at warehouses opened in 2011 and 2012, and the benefit of one additional week of sales in 2012. 
  Gasoline price inflation positively impacted net sales by approximately $801 or 92 basis points, which resulted from an 8% increase in the average sales price per gallon during 2012. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted net sales by approximately $597, or 69 basis points during 2012, primarily  due to the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso and the Korean won of approximately $310, $255 and $57, respectively, partially offset by a positive impact of the Japanese yen of approximately $81. 
  Comparable Sales 
  Comparable sales increased 7% during 2012, and were positively impacted by increases in both shopping frequency and the average amount spent by our members. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted comparable sales results during 2012, while changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted comparable sales. The increase in comparable sales includes the negative impact of cannibalization (established warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations). 
    Membership Fees 

2013 vs. 2012 
  Membership fees increased 10% in 2013. The increase was primarily due to raising our annual membership fees and membership sign-ups at both existing and new warehouses. These increases were partially offset by the impact of one additional week of membership fees in 2012.  Our member renewal rates are currently 90% in the U.S. and Canada, and 86% on a worldwide basis. 
  We increased our annual membership fee in the U.S. and Canada effective November 1, 2011, for new members, and January 1, 2012, for renewal members. We increased our annual membership fee by $5 for U.S. Goldstar (individual), Business, Business add-on and Canada Business members to $55. Also, our U.S. and Canada Executive Membership annual fees increased from $100 to $110.  We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one-year membership period. These fee increases had a positive impact on membership fee  
    20 

     Table of Contents  
  Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (amounts in millions, except per share and share data, membership fee data, and warehouse number data)   (Continued) 

revenues of approximately $119 and $37 in 2013 and 2012, respectively.  The remaining impact of this fee increase in 2014 will be immaterial. 
  2012 vs. 2011 
  Membership fees increased 11% in 2012. The increase was due to new member sign-ups at warehouses open for more than one year, an extra week of membership fee revenue in fiscal 2012, the impact of raising our annual membership fees, increased penetration of our higher-fee Executive Membership program, and additional member sign-ups at new warehouses opened since the end of fiscal 2011. 
    Gross Margin 

2013 vs. 2012 
  Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased seven basis points compared to 2012. Gross margin in our core merchandise categories (food and sundries, hardlines, softlines and fresh foods) when expressed as a percentage of net sales decreased four basis points, primarily due to a decrease in fresh foods as a result of our continued investment in merchandise pricing. Warehouse ancillary and other businesses gross margin when expressed as a percentage of net sales increased by six basis points, predominately in our optical and hearing aid businesses.  Additionally, gross margin was positively impacted by five basis points due to a $27 LIFO inventory benefit in 2013, compared to a charge of $21 in 2012, and two basis points due to a legal settlement. The LIFO benefit resulted from lower costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily hardlines. Executive Membership 2% reward program negatively impacted gross margin by two basis points, due to increased spending by Executive Members.  
  Gross margin for core merchandise categories when expressed as a percentage of core merchandise sales (rather than total net sales) decreased two basis points, primarily due to a decrease in fresh foods.  
  Gross margin on a geographic segment basis, when expressed as a percentage of the segment s own sales (gross margin percentage), increased in our U.S. operation primarily due to improvements in warehouse ancillary and other businesses.  The LIFO benefit and legal settlement also benefited our U.S. operations.  These improvements were slightly offset by a decrease in fresh foods.  The gross margin percentage in our Canadian operations was flat, resulting from a decrease in fresh foods, offset by increases in warehouse ancillary and other businesses. The gross margin percentage in our Other International segment decreased, primarily in fresh foods.  
  2012 vs. 2011 
  Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 14 basis points compared to 2011. Gross margin for core merchandise categories decreased 21 basis points, primarily due to decreases in hardlines and food and sundries resulting from our investment in merchandise pricing. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation on net sales, gross margin for core merchandise categories decreased 13 basis points. The gross margin comparison was positively impacted by eight basis points due to a $21 LIFO inventory charge in 2012 compared to an $87 LIFO charge recorded in 2011. The LIFO charge resulted from higher costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily food and sundries and gasoline. Increased penetration of the Executive Membership 2% reward program negatively impacted gross margin by two basis points due to increased spending by Executive Members.  
      
    21 

     Table of Contents  
  Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (amounts in millions, except per share and share data, membership fee data, and warehouse number data)   (Continued) 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 

2013 vs. 2012 
  SG A expenses as a percent of net sales increased one basis point compared to 2012. This increase was driven by higher stock compensation expense of three basis points, partially offset by contributions made to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State in the first quarter of 2012, with no comparable charge in 2013, which resulted in a positive impact of two basis points. Central operating costs as a percent of net sales were flat, primarily due to the benefit of lower non-equity incentive compensation costs as a result of not meeting certain internal performance targets. This was offset by higher central operating costs, predominately related to the continued investment in the modernization of our information systems in our U.S. operations. Warehouse operating costs as a percentage of net sales was flat, primarily due to leveraging payroll costs in our U.S. and Canadian operations as a result of increased net sales which was offset by increases in other operating costs, primarily employee benefits and workers' compensation. 
  2012 vs. 2011 
  SG A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 17 basis points compared to 2011. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG A expenses improved nine basis points, primarily due to an eleven basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by contributions to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State and higher stock compensation expense, which had negative impacts of two basis points each. Higher costs related to the modernization of our information systems and related activities, which includes the re-platforming of our e-commerce sites, also adversely impacted our SG A percentage.  
    Preopening Expenses 

Preopening expenses include costs for startup operations related to new warehouses and the expansion of ancillary operations at existing warehouses. Preopening expenses vary due to the number of warehouse openings, the timing of the opening relative to our year-end, whether the warehouse is owned or leased, and whether the opening is in an existing, new, or international market. 
  Interest Expense 

Interest expense in 2013 primarily relates to our $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes issued in fiscal 2007 and our $3,500 of Senior notes issued in December 2012 (described in further detail under the heading  Financing Activities  and in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). The outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes was paid in March 2012, resulting in a decrease in interest expense in 2012.  
    22 

     Table of Contents  
  Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (amounts in millions, except per share and share data, membership fee data, and warehouse number data)   (Continued) 

Interest Income and Other, Net 

2013 vs. 2012 
  The decrease in interest income in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily attributable to lower interest rates earned on our U.S. cash balances. There was a decrease in the positive impact of net foreign-currency transaction gains resulting from the revaluation or settlement of monetary assets and monetary liabilities during the year.  This was partially offset by a positive impact of mark-to-market adjustments related to foreign exchange contracts entered into by our foreign subsidiaries, as the U.S. dollar was slightly stronger in certain international locations compared to 2012.  See Derivatives and Foreign Currency sections in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report.  
  2012 vs. 2011 
  The increase in interest income in 2012 compared to 2011 was attributable to higher cash balances and interest rates in our foreign subsidiaries. The changes in foreign-currency transaction gains and losses, net in 2012 compared to 2011 were related to the revaluation or settlement of monetary assets and monetary liabilities, primarily our Canadian subsidiary s U.S. dollar-denominated payables.  
  Provision for Income Taxes 

2013 vs. 2012 
  Our provision for income taxes for 2013 was favorably impacted by nonrecurring net tax benefits of $77, primarily due to a $62 tax benefit recorded in the second quarter in connection with the special cash dividend paid to employees through our 401(k) Retirement Plan. Dividends paid on these shares are deductible for U.S. income tax purposes. 
  2012 vs. 2011 
  Our provision for income taxes for 2012 was adversely impacted by nonrecurring net tax expense of $25 relating primarily to the following items: the adverse impact of an audit of Costco Mexico by the Mexican tax authority; the tax effects of a cash dividend declared by Costco Mexico; and the tax effects of nondeductible expenses for our contribution to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State. 
      
    23 

     Table of Contents  
  Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (amounts in millions, except per share and share data, membership fee data, and warehouse number data)   (Continued) 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
  Cash Flows 
  The following table summarizes our significant sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents: 

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from warehouse operations, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances. Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were $6,124 and $4,854 at the end of 2013 and 2012, respectively. Of these balances, approximately $1,254 and $1,161 at the end of 2013 and 2012, respectively, represented debit and credit card receivables, primarily related to sales in the last week of our fiscal year. 
  Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $3,437 in 2013 compared to $3,057 in 2012. Our cash flow provided by operations is primarily derived from net sales and membership fees. Our cash flow used in operations generally consist of payments to our merchandise vendors, warehouse operating costs including payroll and employee benefits, utilities and credit card processing fees.  Cash used in operations also includes payments for income taxes. 
  Net cash used in investing activities totaled $2,251 in 2013 compared to $1,236 in 2012. Our cash flow used in investing activities is primarily related to funding our warehouse expansion and remodeling activities. We opened a total of 26 and 17 new warehouses in 2013 and 2012, respectively, and plan to open 30 to 36 new warehouses in 2014. Net cash used for purchases of short-term investments in 2013 included the investment of the excess proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt (described below).  
  Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $44 in 2013, compared to $2,281 used in financing activities in 2012. Our cash provided by financing activities primarily resulted from the proceeds of the issuance of long-term debt, largely the issuance of $3,500 in aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes.  The majority of these proceeds were used to fund the special cash dividend. Additionally, cash used for repurchases of our common stock was minimal in 2013. In 2012, cash used also included the repayment of long-term debt and purchase of the non-controlling interest in Costco Mexico. 
  The effect of changes in foreign-exchange rates decreased cash and cash equivalents by $114 in 2013, compared to $21 in 2012. This was predominately due to the weakening of the Canadian dollar and Japanese yen. 
  Management believes that our cash position and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We have not provided for U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. consolidated subsidiaries as we deem such earnings to be indefinitely reinvested.  We believe that our U.S. current and projected asset position is sufficient to meet our U.S. liquidity requirements and we have no current plans to repatriate the cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held by these subsidiaries for use in the U.S. At September 1, 2013, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $2,320 were held by these non-U.S. consolidated subsidiaries. 
  Dividends 
  In April 2013, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.275 to $0.31 per share. Additionally, in November 2012, the Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $7.00 per share.  This dividend was paid in December 2012 in the amount of $3,049. Our cash dividends paid in   2013   totaled $8.17 per share as compared to $1.03 per share in   2012  .  
    24 

     Table of Contents  
  Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (amounts in millions, except per share and share data, membership fee data, and warehouse number data)   (Continued) 

Contractual Obligations 
  As of   September 1, 2013  , our commitments to make future payments under contractual obligations were as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Includes only open merchandise purchase orders. 
              (2) 
    Includes contractual interest payments. 
              (3) 
    Operating lease obligations exclude amounts for common area maintenance, taxes, and insurance and have been reduced by   $150   to reflect sub-lease income. 
              (4) 
    The amounts exclude certain services negotiated at the individual warehouse or regional level that are not significant and generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. 
              (5) 
    Consists of   $50   in asset retirement obligations, $55 in deferred compensation obligations, and $4 of current unrecognized tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions. The total amount excludes $215 of deferred compensation, $53 of non-current unrecognized tax benefits, and $24 of other obligations due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. 
     Expansion Plans 
  Our primary requirement for capital is the financing of land, buildings, and equipment for new and remodeled warehouses. To a lesser extent, capital is required for initial warehouse operations and working capital. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon further review, it is our current intention to spend approximately $2,300 to $2,500 during fiscal 2014 for real estate, construction, remodeling, equipment for warehouses and related operations, and the modernization of our information systems and related activities. These expenditures are expected to be financed with a combination of cash provided from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. 
  We plan to open 30 to 36 new warehouses in 2014. In 2013, we opened   26   new warehouses and spent a total of   $2,083   on capital expenditures. 
  Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs 
  As of September 1, 2013, we had total borrowing capacity within our bank credit facilities of $700, of which $381 was maintained by our international operations. Of the $381 maintained by our international operations, $183 is guaranteed by the Company. We maintain bank credit facilities for working capital and general corporate purposes. There were $36 in outstanding short-term borrowings under the bank credit facilities at the end of 2013 and none outstanding as of the end of 2012. The Company has letter of credit facilities, for commercial and stand-by letters of credit, totaling $154. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at the end of 2013 totaled $96, including $91 million in stand-by letters of credit with expiration dates within one year. All of the bank credit facilities have various expiration dates, all within one year, and generally, we intend to renew these facilities prior to their expiration. The amount of borrowings available at any time under our bank credit facilities is reduced by the amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding at that time. 
  Financing Activities 
  In December 2012, we issued $3,500 in aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes as follows: $1,200 of 0.65% Senior Notes due December 7, 2015; $1,100 of 1.125% Senior Notes due December 15, 2017; and $1,200 of 1.7% Senior Notes due December 15, 2019. The proceeds from the issuance of these Senior Notes were used primarily to pay the special cash dividend  
    25 

     Table of Contents  
  Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (amounts in millions, except per share and share data, membership fee data, and warehouse number data)   (Continued) 

on our common stock. The balance of approximately $450 was used to invest in short-term investments. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information. 
  In July 2013, our Japanese subsidiary entered into an approximately $102 three-year term loan (with a possible two year extension), bearing interest at 0.67%. Interest is payable semi-annually, and principal is due on June 30, 2016.  
  In May 2013, our Japanese subsidiary issued approximately $102 of 1.05% promissory notes through a private placement. Interest is payable semiannually, and principal is due in May 2023.  
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements. 
  Stock Repurchase Programs 
  In April 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program in the amount of $4,000, expiring in April 2015, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $10,800. The authorization in April 2011 revoked previously authorized but unused amounts totaling $792. 
  During 2013 and 2012, we repurchased 357,000 and 7,272,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $96.41 and $84.75, totaling approximately $34 and $617, respectively. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $3,055 at the end of 2013. Purchases are made from time-to-time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5-1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. 
  Critical Accounting Estimates 
  The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long-lived assets, insurance/self-insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. For further information on key accounting policies, see discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. 
  Revenue Recognition 
  We generally recognize sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis. 
  We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. 
  We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one-year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year), which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses on qualified purchases made at Costco warehouses. We account for this reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non-redemptions based on historical data. 
    26 

     Table of Contents  
  Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   (amounts in millions, except per share and share data, membership fee data, and warehouse number data)   (Continued) 

Investments 
  Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. 
  Merchandise Inventories 
  Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year-end. 
  We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. 
  Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. 
  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 
  We periodically evaluate our long-lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then-current fair market value. 
  Insurance/Self-Insurance Liabilities 
  We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance mechanisms, including a wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers  compensation, general liability, property damage, directors  and officers  liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. 
  Income Taxes 
  The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more-likely-than-not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. 
  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
  See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. 
      
    27 

     Table of Contents     

   Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (amounts in millions) 
  Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. 
  Interest Rate Risk 
  Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among various instruments considered to be cash equivalents as defined in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report, as well as short-term investments in government and agency securities, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short-term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations.  
  Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. Our wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. g  overnment and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage-backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA+.  
  Our Canadian and other international subsidiaries  investments are primarily in money market funds, bankers  acceptances, bank certificates of   deposit and term deposits, generally denominated in their local currencies.  
  We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact that a 100 basis-point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of   2013   and   2012  , the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available-for-sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders  equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. 
  The nature and amount of our long-term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2013, the majority of our long-term debt is fixed rate Senior Notes, carried at $4,595. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed-rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long-term debt. 
  Foreign Currency-Exchange Risk 
  Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non-functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign-exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non-functional foreign-currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit-risk-related contingent features. 
  We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign-exchange contracts at the end of   2013   and   2012  . A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non-functional currency exchange rates at   September 1, 2013   and   September 2, 2012  , would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $45 and $28, respectively. 
  Commodity Price Risk 
  We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through fixed-price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable-priced contracts for some purchases of electricity and natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the  normal purchases or normal sales  exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark-to-market adjustment. 
    28 

       Table of Contents     

   Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
  The following documents are filed as part of Part II, Item 8 of this Report on the pages listed below: 

Management s Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Costco s management is responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the accompanying consolidated financial statements and the related financial information. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include certain amounts that are based on estimates and informed judgments. The Company s management is also responsible for the preparation of the related financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and its accuracy and consistency with the consolidated financial statements. 
  The consolidated financial statements have been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, who conducted their audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The independent registered public accounting firm s responsibility is to express an opinion as to the fairness with which such consolidated financial statements present our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
    Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
  None. 
    Item 9A Controls and Procedures 
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  As of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we performed an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act)). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective. 
  There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during our most recently completed fiscal year that has materially affected or is reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting. 
  Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and the dispositions of our assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that our transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that our receipts and expenditures are being made  
    29 

     Table of Contents     
    
  Item 9A Controls and Procedures (Continued) 

   only in accordance with appropriate authorizations; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. 
  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of   September 1, 2013  , using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control Integrated Framework (1992). Based on its assessment, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of   September 1, 2013  . The attestation of KPMG LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is included with the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Report. 
                 /s/    W. C  RAIG   J  ELINEK 
      
      W. Craig Jelinek 
      
      President and Chief Executive Officer 

/s/    R  ICHARD   A. G  ALANTI 
      
      Richard A. Galanti 
      
      Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Item 9B Other Information (amounts in whole dollars) 
  Disclosure pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 and Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
    
  As reported in the Company s prior quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 12, 2013, in the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company canceled a business membership at our Japan subsidiary in the name of the Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The cancellation of this membership was initiated in June 2013, although the members inadvertently were able to make purchases until August 2013.  $1,032 in revenue and an estimated $13 in net profits were earned in the fourth quarter of 2013. 

30 

       Table of Contents     

   PART III 
    Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
  Information relating to the availability of our code of ethics for senior financial officers and a list of our executive officers appear in Item 1 of this Report. The information required by this Item concerning our directors and nominees for director is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Proposal 1: Election of Directors,   Directors,   Committees of the Board  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in Costco s Proxy Statement for its 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the end of our fiscal year ( Proxy Statement ). 
    Item 11 Executive Compensation 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Compensation of Directors,   Executive Compensation,  and  Compensation Discussion and Analysis  in Costco s Proxy Statement. 
    Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled  Principle Shareholders  and  Equity Compensation Plan Information  in Costco s Proxy Statement. 
    Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Proposal 1: Election of Directors,   Directors,   Committees of the Board,   Shareholder Communications to the Board,   Meeting Attendance,   Report of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors,   Certain Relationships and Transactions  and  Report of the Audit Committee  in Costco s Proxy Statement. 
    Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Independent Public Accountants  in Costco s Proxy Statement. 
    PART IV 
    Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
    
           (a) 
    Documents filed as part of this report are as follows: 
       
           1. 
    Financial Statements: 
     See the listing of Financial Statements included as a part of this Form 10-K on Item 8 of Part II. 
  2.  Financial Statement Schedules: 
  All schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto. 
  3.  Exhibits: 
  The required exhibits are included at the end of the Form 10-K Annual Report and are described in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the first exhibit. 
    
           (b) 
    Financial Statement Schedules None. 
       31 

       Table of Contents     

   SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
  October 16, 2013    
                       
    C  OSTCO   W  HOLESALE   C  ORPORATION 
  (Registrant) 

By 
      
    /s/ R  ICHARD   A. G  ALANTI 

Richard A. Galanti 
  Executive Vice President 
  and Chief Financial Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
    
                           By 
      
    /s/ W. C  RAIG   J  ELINEK 

October 16, 2013 

W. Craig Jelinek 
  President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

By 
      
    /s/ J  EFFREY   H. B  ROTMAN 

October 16, 2013 

Jeffrey H. Brotman 
  Chairman of the Board 

By 
      
    /s/ R  ICHARD   A. G  ALANTI 

October 16, 2013 

Richard A. Galanti 
  Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Director   (  Principal Financial Officer  ) 

By 
      
    /s/ D  AVID   S. P  ETTERSON 

October 16, 2013 

David S. Petterson 
  Senior Vice President and Controller 
  (Principal Accounting Officer) 

By 
      
    /s/ B  ENJAMIN   S. C  ARSON  , S  R  ., M.D. 

October 16, 2013 

Benjamin S. Carson, Sr., M.D. 
  Director 

By 
      
    /s/ S  USAN   L. D  ECKER 

October 16, 2013 

Susan L. Decker 
  Director 

By 
      
    /s/ D  ANIEL   J. E  VANS 

October 16, 2013 

Daniel J. Evans 
  Director 

32 

       Table of Contents     

33 

       Table of Contents     

   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders 
  Costco Wholesale Corporation: 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Costco Wholesale Corporation and subsidiaries as of September 1, 2013 and September 2, 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for the 52-week period ended September 1, 2013, the 53-week period ended September 2, 2012 and the 52-week period ended August 28, 2011. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Costco Wholesale Corporation and subsidiaries as of September 1, 2013 and September 2, 2012, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the 52-week period ended September 1, 2013, the 53-week period ended September 2, 2012, and the 52-week period ended August 28, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Costco Wholesale Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of September 1, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated October 16, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  
  /s/ KPMG LLP 
  Seattle, Washington 
  October 16, 2013 
    34 

       Table of Contents     

   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders 
  Costco Wholesale Corporation: 
  We have audited Costco Wholesale Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of September 1, 2013 based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management s annual report on internal control over financial reporting included in Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 1, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992). 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of September 1, 2013 and September 2, 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the 52-week period ended September 1, 2013, the 53-week period ended September 2, 2012 and the 52-week period ended August 28, 2011, and our report dated October 16, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
  /s/ KPMG LLP 
  Seattle, Washington 
  October 16, 2013 
    35 

       Table of Contents     

   COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  (amounts in millions, except par value and share data) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
    36 

       Table of Contents     

   COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
  (amounts in millions, except per share data) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
    37 

       Table of Contents     

   COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  (amounts in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
    
    38 

       Table of Contents     

   COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY 
  (amounts in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
    39 

       Table of Contents     

   COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  (amounts in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
    40 

       Table of Contents     

   COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) 
    Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
  Description of Business 
  Costco Wholesale Corporation (Costco or the Company), a Washington corporation, and its subsidiaries operate membership warehouses based on the concept that offering members low prices on a limited selection of nationally branded and select private-label products in a wide range of merchandise categories will produce high sales volumes and rapid inventory turnover. At   September 1, 2013  , Costco operated   634   warehouses worldwide:   451   United States (U.S.) locations (in   41   U.S. states, Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico),   85   Canadian locations,   33   Mexico locations,   25   United Kingdom (U.K.) locations,   18   Japan locations,   10   Taiwan locations,   9   Korea locations, and   3   Australia locations. The Company's online business operates websites in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K. 
  Basis of Presentation 
  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Costco Wholesale Corporation, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, subsidiaries in which it has a controlling interest, consolidated entities in which it has made equity investments, or has other interests through which it has majority-voting control or it exercises the right to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity s performance. The Company reports noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities as a component of equity separate from the Company s equity. All material inter-company transactions between and among the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and other consolidated entities have been eliminated in consolidation. In July 2012, Costco purchased its former joint venture partner s   50%   equity interest in Costco Mexico. The Company s net income excludes income attributable to noncontrolling interests in its operations in Mexico prior to the July 2012 acquisition of the   50%   noncontrolling interest, Taiwan, and Korea. Subsequent to the acquisition date,   100%   of Mexico s operations are included in  net income attributable to Costco.  Unless otherwise noted, references to net income relate to net income attributable to Costco. 
  In 2011 and prior to the July 2012 acquisition of the   50%   noncontrolling interest in Mexico, the financial position and results of Mexico s operations were fully consolidated, and the joint venture partner s share was included in  net income attributable to noncontrolling interests  due to the adoption of a new accounting standard. The initial consolidation of Mexico increased total assets, liabilities, and revenue by approximately   3%  , with no impact on net income or net income per common share attributable to Costco. The Company s equity method investment in Mexico as of August 29, 2010 was derecognized and the noncontrolling interest in Mexico totaling $  357   was recognized as part of the initial consolidation of the joint venture on August 30, 2010 as shown in the accompanying consolidated statements of equity. 
  Fiscal Year End 
  The Company operates on a   52/53   week fiscal year basis with the fiscal year ending on the Sunday closest to August 31. References to   2013   relate to the   52  -week fiscal year ended   September 1, 2013  . References to   2012   and   2011   relate to the   53  -week and   52  -week fiscal years ended   September 2, 2012   and   August 28, 2011  , respectively. 
  Use of Estimates 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions. 
  Reclassifications 
  Certain reclassifications have been made to prior fiscal year amounts or balances to conform to the presentation in the current fiscal year. These reclassifications did not have a material impact on the Company s previously reported consolidated financial statements. 
    41 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  The Company considers as cash and cash equivalents all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase and proceeds due from credit and debit card transactions with settlement terms of up to one week. Credit and debit card receivables were $  1,254   and $  1,161   at the end of   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
  Short-Term Investments 
  In general, short-term investments have a maturity at the date of purchase of three months to five years. Investments with maturities beyond five years may be classified, based on the Company s determination, as short-term based on their highly liquid nature and because they represent the investment of cash that is available for current operations. Short-term investments classified as available-for-sale are recorded at fair value using the specific identification method with the unrealized gains and losses reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income until realized. Realized gains and losses from the sale of available-for-sale securities, if any, are determined on a specific identification basis and are recorded in interest income and other, net in the consolidated statements of income. Short-term investments classified as held-to-maturity are financial instruments that the Company has the intent and ability to hold to maturity and are reported net of any related amortization and are not remeasured to fair value on a recurring basis. 
  The Company periodically evaluates unrealized losses in its investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment, using both qualitative and quantitative criteria. In the event a security is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired, the Company recognizes the credit loss component in interest income and other, net in the consolidated statements of income. The majority of the Company s investments are in debt securities. 
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  The Company accounts for certain assets and liabilities at fair value. The carrying value of the Company s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, receivables and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to their short-term nature or variable interest rates. See Notes 2, 3, and 4 for the carrying value and fair value of the Company s investments, derivative instruments, and fixed-rate debt, respectively. 
  Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair value is estimated by applying a fair value hierarchy, which requires maximizing the use of observable inputs when measuring fair value. The three levels of inputs are: 
  Level 1: Quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
  Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data. 
  Level 3: Significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data. 
  The Company s valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of money market mutual funds are based on quoted market prices, such as quoted net asset values published by the fund as supported in an active market. Valuation methodologies used to measure the fair value of all other non-derivative financial instruments are based on  consensus pricing,  using market prices from a variety of industry-standard independent data providers or pricing that considers various assumptions, including time value, yield curve, volatility factors, credit spreads, default rates, loss severity, current market and contractual prices for the underlying instruments or debt, broker and dealer quotes, as well as other relevant economic measures. All are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data, for which the Company typically receives independent external valuation information. 
  The Company reports transfers in and out of Levels 1, 2, and 3, as applicable, using the fair value of the individual securities as of the beginning of the reporting period in which the transfer(s) occurred. 
  The Company s current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying values. The Company s long-term financial liabilities consist of long-term debt, which is recorded on the balance sheet at issuance price and adjusted for any applicable unamortized discounts or premiums. 
    42 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

Receivables, Net 
  Receivables consist of the following at the end of   2013   and   2012  : 

Vendor receivables include payments from vendors in the form of volume rebates or other purchase discounts that are evidenced by signed agreements and are reflected in the carrying value of the inventory when earned or as the Company progresses towards earning the rebate or discount and as a component of merchandise costs as the merchandise is sold. Vendor receivable balances are generally presented on a gross basis, separate from any related payable due. In certain circumstances, these receivables may be settled against the related payable to that vendor. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of the related agreement, or by another systematic approach. 
  Reinsurance receivables are held by the Company s wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary. The receivable balance primarily represents amounts ceded through reinsurance arrangements, and are reflected on a gross basis, separate from the amounts assumed under reinsurance, which are presented on a gross basis within other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. Receivables from governmental entities largely consist of tax-related items. Third-party pharmacy receivables generally relate to amounts due from members  insurance companies for the amount above their co-pay, which is collected at the point-of-sale.  
  Receivables are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. Management determines the allowance for doubtful accounts based on historical experience and application of the specific identification method. Write-offs of receivables were immaterial for fiscal years   2013  ,   2012  , and   2011  . 
  Merchandise Inventories 
  Merchandise inventories consist of the following at the end of   2013   and   2012  : 

Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The Company believes the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. The Company records an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the projected annual effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year-end, when actual inflation rates and inventory levels have been determined. 
  Due to net deflationary trends in   2013  , a benefit of $  27   was recorded to merchandise costs, to reduce the cumulative                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LIFO valuation on merchandise inventories. Due to net inflationary trends in   2012   and   2011  , merchandise inventories valued at LIFO were lower than FIFO, resulting in a charge to merchandise costs of $  21   and $  87  , respectively. At the end of   2013   and   2012  , the cumulative impact of the LIFO valuation on merchandise inventories was $  81   and $  108  , respectively.  
    43 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

The Company provides for estimated inventory losses between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales, using estimates based on the Company s experience. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect the results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth fiscal quarters of the fiscal year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as the Company progresses towards earning those rebates, provided that they are probable and reasonably estimable. 
  Property and Equipment 
  Property and equipment are stated at cost. In general, new building additions are separated into components, each with its own estimated useful life, generally   five   to   fifty   years for buildings and improvements and   three   to   twenty   years for equipment and fixtures. Depreciation and amortization expense is computed using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives or the lease term, if shorter. Leasehold improvements made after the beginning of the initial lease term are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the remaining term of the initial lease plus any renewals that are reasonably assured at the date the leasehold improvements are made. 
  Repair and maintenance costs are expensed when incurred. Expenditures for remodels, refurbishments and improvements that add to or change the way an asset functions or that extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized. Assets that were removed during the remodel, refurbishment or improvement are retired. Assets classified as held for sale were not material at the end of   2013   or   2012  . 
  The Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment on an annual basis, when relocating or closing a facility, or when events or changes in circumstances occur that may indicate the carrying amount of the asset group, generally an individual warehouse, may not be fully recoverable. For asset groups held and used, including warehouses to be relocated, the carrying value of the asset group is considered recoverable when the estimated future undiscounted cash flows generated from the use and eventual disposition of the asset group exceed the group s net carrying value. In the event that the carrying value is not considered recoverable, an impairment loss would be recognized for the asset group to be held and used equal to the excess of the carrying value above the estimated fair value of the asset group. For asset groups classified as held for sale (disposal group), the carrying value is compared to the disposal group s fair value less costs to sell. The Company estimates fair value by obtaining market appraisals from third party brokers or other valuation techniques. Impairment charges, included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of income, in   2013  ,   2012  , and   2011   were immaterial. 
  The Company capitalizes certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer software for internal use. These costs are included in equipment and fixtures, and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the software, generally   three   to   seven   years. 
  Other Assets 
  Other assets consist of the following at the end of   2013   and   2012  : 

Receivables from governmental entities largely consists of various tax-related items including amounts deposited with taxing authorities in connection with ongoing income tax audits and non-current deferred tax assets. The Company adjusts the carrying value of its employee life insurance contracts to the net cash surrender value at the end of each reporting period. Goodwill resulting from certain business combinations is reviewed for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or more frequently if circumstances dictate. No impairment of goodwill has been incurred to date. 
    44 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

Accounts Payable 
  The Company s banking system provides for the daily replenishment of major bank accounts as checks are presented. Included in accounts payable at the end of   2013   and   2012   are $  493   and $  565  , respectively, representing the excess of outstanding checks over cash on deposit at the banks on which the checks were drawn. 
  Insurance/Self-Insurance Liabilities 
  The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance mechanisms, including a wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers  compensation, general liability, property damage, directors  and officers  liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits.  Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the Company are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors, and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. As of the end of   2013   and   2012  , these insurance liabilities were $  727   and $  688   in the aggregate, respectively, and were included in accounts payable, accrued salaries and benefits, and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets, classified based on their nature. 
  The Company s wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary (the captive) receives direct premiums, which are netted against the Company s premium costs in selling, general and administrative expenses, in the consolidated statements of income. The captive participates in a reinsurance program that includes other third-party members. The reinsurance agreement is one year in duration, and new agreements are entered into by each participant at their discretion at the commencement of the next calendar year. The member agreements and practices of the reinsurance program limit any participating members  individual risk. Income statement adjustments related to the reinsurance program and related impacts to the consolidated balance sheets are recognized as information becomes known. In the event the Company leaves the reinsurance program, the Company is not relieved of its primary obligation to the policyholders for activity prior to the termination of the annual agreement. 
  Other Current Liabilities 
  Other current liabilities consist of the following at the end of   2013   and   2012  : 

Derivatives 
  The Company is exposed to foreign-currency exchange-rate fluctuations in the normal course of business. It manages these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign-exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non-functional foreign-currency. The contracts relate primarily to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by the Company s international subsidiaries, whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. The Company seeks to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and does not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit-risk-related contingent features. The aggregate notional amounts of open, unsettled forward foreign-exchange contracts were $  458   and $  284   at the end of   2013   and   2012  , respectively. The Company seeks to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which the Company has an established banking relationship. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. The contracts  
    45 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 3 for information on the fair value of unsettled forward foreign-exchange contracts at the end of   2013   and   2012  . 
  The unrealized gains or losses recognized in interest income and other, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income relating to the net changes in the fair value of unsettled forward foreign-exchange contracts were immaterial in   2013  ,   2012  , and   2011  . 
  The Company is exposed to fluctuations in prices for the energy it consumes, particularly electricity and natural gas, which it seeks to partially mitigate through the use of fixed-price contracts for certain of its warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. The Company also enters into variable-priced contracts for some purchases of electricity and natural gas, in addition to fuel for its gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the  normal purchases or normal sales  exception under authoritative guidance and thus require no mark-to-market adjustment. 
  Foreign Currency 
  The functional currencies of the Company s international subsidiaries are the local currency of the country in which the subsidiary is located. Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Revenues and expenses of the Company s consolidated foreign operations are translated at average exchange rates prevailing during the year. 
  The Company recognizes foreign-currency transaction gains and losses related to revaluing all monetary assets and revaluing or settling monetary liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency in interest income and other, net in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of income. Generally, this includes the U.S. dollar cash and cash equivalents and the U.S. dollar payables of consolidated subsidiaries to their functional currency. Also included are realized foreign-currency gains or losses from settlements of forward foreign-exchange contracts.  
  Revenue Recognition 
  The Company generally recognizes sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When the Company collects payments from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amounts received are generally recorded as deferred sales, included in other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets, until the sale or service is completed. The Company reserves for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members, which under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes, are recorded on a net basis. 
  The Company evaluates whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when Costco is the primary obligor, is subject to inventory risk, has latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, can influence product or service specifications, or has several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are recorded on a gross basis. If the Company is not the primary obligor and does not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, it records the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. 
  The Company accounts for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one-year membership period. The Company s Executive Members qualify for a   2%   reward (up to a maximum of $  750   per year on qualified purchases), which can be redeemed at Costco warehouses. The Company accounts for this reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability (classified as accrued member rewards on the consolidated balance sheets) are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non-redemptions based on historical data. The net reduction in sales was $  970  , $  900  , and $  790   in   2013  ,   2012  , and   2011  , respectively. 
    46 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

Merchandise Costs 
  Merchandise costs consist of the purchase price of inventory sold, inbound and outbound shipping charges and all costs related to the Company s depot operations, including freight from depots to selling warehouses, and are reduced by vendor consideration. Merchandise costs also include salaries, benefits, utilities, and depreciation on production equipment in fresh foods and certain ancillary departments. 
  Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 
  Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits and workers  compensation costs for warehouse employees, other than fresh foods departments and certain ancillary businesses, as well as all regional and home office employees, including buying personnel. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include utilities, bank charges, rent and substantially all building and equipment depreciation, as well as other operating costs incurred to support warehouse operations. 
  Marketing and Promotional Expenses 
  Marketing and promotional costs are expensed as incurred and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. 
  Stock-Based Compensation 
  Compensation expense for all stock-based awards granted is recognized using the straight-line method. The fair value of restricted stock units (RSUs) is calculated as the market value of the common stock on the measurement date less the present value of the expected dividends forgone during the vesting period.  
    
  While options and RSUs granted to employees generally vest over five years, all grants allow for quarterly vesting of the pro-rata number of stock-based awards that would vest on the next anniversary of the grant date in the event of retirement or voluntary termination. The Company does not reduce stock-based compensation for an estimate of forfeitures because the estimate is inconsequential in light of historical experience and considering the awards vest on a quarterly basis. The impact of actual forfeitures arising in the event of involuntary termination is recognized as actual forfeitures occur. Stock options have a ten-year term. Stock-based compensation expense is predominantly included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of income. See Note 7 for additional information on the Company s stock-based compensation plans. 
  Leases 
  The Company leases land and/or buildings at warehouses and certain other office and distribution facilities, primarily under operating leases. Operating leases expire at various dates through   2062  , with the exception of one lease in the Company s United Kingdom subsidiary, which expires in   2151  . These leases generally contain one or more of the following options which the Company can exercise at the end of the initial lease term: (a) renewal of the lease for a defined number of years at the then-fair market rental rate or rate stipulated in the lease agreement; (b) purchase of the property at the then-fair market value; or (c) right of first refusal in the event of a third-party purchase offer. 
  The Company accounts for its lease expense with free rent periods and step-rent provisions on a straight-line basis over the original term of the lease and any exercised extension options, from the date the Company has control of the property. Certain leases provide for periodic rental increases based on price indices, and some of the leases provide for rents based on the greater of minimum guaranteed amounts or sales volume. 
  The Company has entered into capital leases for warehouse locations, expiring at various dates through   2040  . Capital lease assets are included in buildings and improvements in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Amortization expense on capital lease assets is recorded as depreciation expense and is predominately included in selling, general and administrative expenses. Capital lease liabilities are recorded at the lesser of the estimated fair market value of the leased property or the net present value of the aggregate future minimum lease payments and are included in other current liabilities and deferred income taxes and other liabilities. Interest on these obligations is included in interest expense.  
  The Company s asset retirement obligations (ARO) are primarily related to leasehold improvements that at the end of a lease must be removed in order to comply with the lease agreement. These obligations are recorded as a liability with an offsetting  
    47 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

capital asset at the inception of the lease term based upon the estimated fair market value of the costs to remove the leasehold improvements. These liabilities are accreted over time to the projected future value of the obligation using the Company s incremental borrowing rate. The capitalized ARO assets are depreciated using the same depreciation convention as the respective leasehold improvement assets and are included with buildings and improvements. Estimated ARO liabilities associated with these leases amounted to $  50   and $  44   at the end of   2013   and   2012  , respectively, and are included in deferred income taxes and other liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. 
  Preopening Expenses 
  Preopening expenses related to new warehouses, new regional offices and other startup operations are expensed as incurred. 
  Interest Income and Other, Net 
  Interest income and other, net includes: 

Income Taxes 
  The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributed to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and tax credits and loss carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences and carry-forwards are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to amounts expected to be realized. 
  The determination of the Company s provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in the Company s consolidated financial statements only after determining a more-likely-than-not probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, the Company reassesses these probabilities and records any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. See Note 9 for additional information. 
  Net Income per Common Share Attributable to Costco 
  The computation of basic net income per share uses the weighted average number of shares that were outstanding during the period. The computation of diluted net income per share uses the weighted average number of shares in the basic net income per share calculation plus the number of common shares that would be issued assuming exercise and vesting to the participant of all potentially dilutive common shares outstanding using the treasury stock method for shares subject to stock options and restricted stock units and the  if converted  method for the convertible note securities. 
    48 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

Stock Repurchase Programs 
  Repurchased shares of common stock are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. The par value of repurchased shares is deducted from common stock and the excess repurchase price over par value is deducted from additional paid-in capital and retained earnings. See Note 6 for additional information. 
  Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 
  In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance that eliminated the option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes in equity. Instead, an entity is required to present either a continuous statement of net income and other comprehensive income or to present the information in two separate but consecutive statements. The new guidance must be applied retrospectively and was effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company adopted this guidance at the beginning of its first quarter of 2013. 
  In September 2011, the FASB issued guidance to amend the rules related to testing goodwill for impairment. The revised guidance allows an initial qualitative evaluation, based on the entity s events and circumstances, to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The results of this qualitative assessment determine whether it is necessary to perform further impairment tests. The new guidance was effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company adopted this guidance at the beginning of its first quarter of 2013. Adoption of this guidance had no impact on the consolidated financial statements. 
  Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted 
  In February 2013, the FASB issued guidance related to reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income. An entity will be required to disclose the net income line items impacted by significant reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income if the item is reclassified in its entirety. For other amounts that are not required to be reclassified in their entirety to net income cross-references to other disclosures required under U.S. GAAP are required to provide additional detail about those amounts. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2012. The Company plans to adopt this guidance at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2014. Adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements or disclosures. 
      
    49 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued)  

Note 2 Investments 
  The Company s investments at the end of   2013   and   2012  , were as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1)   
    Includes U.S. and Canadian government and agency securities. 

Gross unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities were not material in 2013. At the end of   2013  , none of the Company's available-for-sale securities were in a continuous unrealized-loss position, nor were there any gross unrealized gains and losses on cash equivalents. At the end of   2012   and   2011  , the Company s available-for-sale securities that were in continuous unrealized-loss position and gross unrealized gains and losses on cash equivalents were not material.  
  The proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities were   $244  ,   $482  , and   $602   during   2013  ,   2012  , and   2011  , respectively. Gross realized gains or losses from sales of available-for-sale securities were not material in   2013  ,   2012  , and   2011  . 
  The maturities of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities at the end of   2013  , were as follows: 

50 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued)  

Note 3 Fair Value Measurement 
  Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
  The tables below present information at the end of   2013   and   2012  , respectively, regarding the Company s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and indicate the level within the fair value hierarchy reflecting the valuation techniques utilized to determine such fair value.  

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Included in cash and cash equivalents in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. 
              (2) 
    There were   no securities   included in cash and cash equivalents and $  1,263   included in short-term investments in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at the end of   2013  . $  12   and $  782   included in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, respectively, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at the end of   2012  . 
              (3) 
    The asset and the liability values are included in deferred income taxes and other current assets and other current liabilities, respectively, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. See Note 1 for additional information on derivative instruments. 
       
  At the end of 2013, the Company did not hold any Level 3 financial assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis.  At the end of 2012, the Company's holdings of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities were immaterial. There were no financial assets and liabilities measured on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during   2013  , and they were immaterial during   2012  . There were no transfers in or out of Level 1, 2, or 3 during   2013   and   2012  . 
  Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
  Financial assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include held-to-maturity investments that are carried at amortized cost and are not remeasured to fair value on a recurring basis. There were no fair value adjustments to these financial assets during   2013   and   2012  . See Note 4 for discussion on the fair value of long-term debt. 
  Nonfinancial assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include items such as long-lived assets that are measured at fair value resulting from an impairment, if deemed necessary. Fair value adjustments to these nonfinancial assets and liabilities during   2013   and   2012   were immaterial. 
      
    51 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 

Note 4 Debt 
  Short-Term Borrowings 
  The Company enters into various short-term bank credit facilities, totaling   $700   and   $438   in   2013   and   2012  , respectively. At the end of   2013  ,   $36   was outstanding under these credit facilities, with interest rates ranging from   0.10%   to   4.31%  , and is included within other current liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  There were no outstanding borrowings at the end of   2012  . 
  The weighted average borrowings, maximum borrowings, and weighted average interest rate under all short-term borrowing arrangements, were as follows for   2013   and   2012  : 

Long-Term Debt 
  In July 2013, the Company s Japanese subsidiary entered into an approximately   $102   three-year term loan (with a possible two year extension), bearing interest at   0.67%  .   Interest is payable semi-annually   and principal is due on   June 30, 2016  . This debt is included in other long-term debt in the table below and is classified as a Level 2 measurement in the fair value hierarchy.     
  In May 2013, the Company's Japanese subsidiary issued approximately   $102   of   1.05%   promissory notes through a private placement.   Interest is payable semi-annually  , and principal is due in   May 2023  . These notes are included in other long-term debt in the table below and are classified as a Level 3 measurement in the fair value hierarchy. 
  In December 2012, the Company issued   $3,500   in aggregate principle amount of Senior Notes (December 2012 Notes collectively) as follows:   $1,200   of   0.65%   Senior Notes due   December 7, 2015   (0.65% Notes);   $1,100   of   1.125%   Senior Notes due   December 15, 2017   (1.125% Notes); and   $1,200   of   1.7%   Senior Notes due   December 15, 2019   (1.7% Notes). Interest is payable on the 0.65% Notes   semi-annually on June 7 and December 7   of each year until its maturity date. On the 1.125% and 1.7% Notes, interest is due   semi-annually on June 15 and December 15   of each year until its maturity date. The Company, at its option, may redeem the December 2012 Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of   100%   of the principal amount of the December 2012 Notes to be redeemed or the sum of the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, the Company will be required to make an offer to purchase the December 2012 Notes at a price of   101%   of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the December 2012 Notes. The discount and issuance costs associated with the December 2012 Notes are being amortized to interest expense over the terms of the notes. The December 2012 Notes are classified as a Level 2 measurement in the fair value hierarchy. 
  In October and December 2011, the Company s Japanese subsidiary issued two series of   1.18%   Yen-denominated promissory notes through a private placement. For both series,   interest is payable semi-annually  , and principal is due in   October 2018  . These notes are included in other long-term debt in the table below and are classified as a Level 3 measurement in the fair value hierarchy. 
  In June 2008, the Company s Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten-year term loan with a variable rate of interest of Yen TIBOR (6-month) plus a   0.35%   margin (  0.68%   and   0.78%   at the end of   2013   and   2012  , respectively) on the outstanding  
    52 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 4 Debt (Continued) 

   balance.   Interest is payable semi-annually   and principal is due in   June 2018  . This debt is included in other long-term debt in the table below and is classified as a Level 3 measurement in the fair value hierarchy.    
  In October 2007, the Company s Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement, bearing interest at   2.695%  .   Interest is payable semi-annually  , and principal is due in   October 2017  . These notes are included in other long-term debt in the table below and are classified as a Level 3 measurement in the fair value hierarchy. 
  In February 2007, the Company issued   $1,100   of   5.5%   Senior Notes due   March 15, 2017   at a discount of   $6   (the 2007 Senior Note).   Interest is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year until its maturity date.   The discount and issuance costs associated with the Senior Note is being amortized to interest expense over the term of the note. The Company, at its option, may redeem the 2007 Senior Note at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of   100%   of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior Note to be redeemed or the sum of the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, the Company will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Note at a price of   101%   of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Note. This note is classified as a Level 2 measurement in the fair value hierarchy. 
  In August 1997, the Company sold   $900   principal amount at maturity   3.5%   Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of   3.5%  , resulting in gross proceeds to the Company of $  450  . The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of   30,000   shares of Costco Common Stock shares at an initial conversion price of   $22.71  . The Company, at its option, may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption). At the end of   2013  ,   $899   in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders into shares of Costco Common Stock. These notes are included in other long-term debt in the table below and are classified as a Level 2 measurement in the fair value hierarchy.  
  The carrying value and estimated fair value of the Company s long-term debt at the end of   2013   and   2012   consisted of the following: 

The estimated fair value of the Company s debt was based primarily on reported market values, recently completed market transactions, and estimates based upon interest rates, maturities, and credit. Substantially all of the Company's long-term debt is classified as Level 2. 
  Maturities of long-term debt during the next five fiscal years and thereafter are as follows: 

53 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued)  

Note 5 Leases 
  Operating Leases 
  The aggregate rental expense for   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   was $  225  , $  220  , and $  208  , respectively. Sub-lease income, included in interest income and other, net, and contingent rents are not material. 
  Capital Leases 
  Gross assets recorded under capital leases were $  201   and $  187  , at the end of   2013   and   2012  , respectively. These assets are recorded net of accumulated amortization of $  28   and $  19   at the end of   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
  At the end of   2013  , future minimum payments, net of sub-lease income of $  150   for all years combined, under non-cancelable operating leases with terms of at least one year and capital leases were as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Included in other current liabilities. 
              (2) 
    Included in deferred income taxes and other liabilities. 
       Note 6 Stockholders  Equity 
  Dividends 
  The Company s current quarterly dividend rate is   $0.31   per share. In December 2012, the Company paid a special cash dividend of   $7.00   per share, totaling approximately   $3,049  . 
  Stock Repurchase Programs 
  The Company s stock repurchase program is conducted under a   $4,000   authorization by the Board of Directors approved in   April 2011  , which expires in   April 2015  . As of the end of   2013  , the total amount repurchased under this plan was   $945  . The following table summarizes the Company s stock repurchase activity: 

These amounts differ from the stock repurchase balances in the accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows due to changes in unsettled stock repurchases at the end of each fiscal year. 
    54 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 6 Stockholders  Equity (Continued) 

   Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income 
  Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax where applicable, was   $(122)   and   $156   at the end of   2013   and   2012  , respectively, and was comprised primarily of unrealized foreign-currency translation adjustments. In 2012, as part of the acquisition of the noncontrolling interest in Mexico, the Company reclassified   $155   of accumulated unrealized losses on foreign-currency translation adjustments to Costco s accumulated other comprehensive income. This balance was previously included as a component of non-controlling interest. 
    Note 7 Stock-Based Compensation Plans 
  The Company grants stock-based compensation to employees and non-employee directors. Stock option awards were granted under the Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, amended as of January 2006 (Second Restated 2002 Plan), and predecessor plans until, effective in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company began awarding restricted stock units (RSUs) under the Second Restated 2002 Plan in lieu of stock options. Through a series of shareholder approvals, there have been amended and restated plans and new provisions implemented by the Company. Under revisions in the Fourth Restated 2002 Plan in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, grants of RSUs are subject, upon certain terminations of employment, to quarterly vesting. Employees who attain certain years of service with the Company receive shares under accelerated vesting provisions on the annual vesting date rather than upon qualified retirement. The first grant impacted by these amendments occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Each share issued in respect of stock bonus or stock unit awards is counted as   1.75   shares toward the limit of shares made available under the Fourth Restated 2002 Plan. The Sixth Restated 2002 Plan (Sixth Plan), amended in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, is the Company s only stock-based compensation plan with shares available for grant at the end of   2013  . The Sixth Plan authorizes the issuance of   16,000,000   shares (  9,143,000   RSUs) of common stock for future grants in addition to shares previously authorized. The Company issues new shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options and upon vesting of RSUs. Vested RSUs are generally delivered to participants annually, net of minimum statutory withholding taxes. 
  As required by the Company s Sixth Plan, in conjunction with the special cash dividend discussed in Note 6, adjustments were made to awards outstanding on the dividend record date to preserve their value following the dividend, as follows: (i) the number of shares subject to outstanding RSUs was increased; and (ii) the exercise prices of outstanding stock options were reduced and the number of shares subject to such options was increased. The number of outstanding stock options and RSUs was increased by multiplying the number of outstanding shares by a factor of   1.0763  , representing the ratio of the NASDAQ closing price of   $105.95   on December 5, 2012, which was the last trading day immediately prior to the ex-dividend date, to the NASDAQ opening price of   $98.44   on the ex-dividend date, December 6, 2012. The exercise prices of stock options were reduced by multiplying the prices by a factor of   0.9291  , representing the ratio of the NASDAQ opening price on the ex-dividend date to the NASDAQ closing price on December 5. Approximately   2,905,000   stock options were adjusted, and approximately   9,676,000   RSUs were adjusted. These adjustments did not result in additional stock-based compensation expense, as the fair value of the outstanding awards did not change. As further required by the Sixth Plan, the maximum number of shares issuable under the Sixth Plan was also proportionally adjusted, which resulted in an additional   1,362,000   shares (  778,000   RSUs) available to be granted. 
  Summary of Stock Option Activity 
  All outstanding stock options were fully vested and exercisable at the end of   2013   and   2012  . The following table summarizes stock option transactions during   2013  : 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    The difference between the exercise price and market value of common stock at the end of   2013  .    
       55 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 7 Stock-Based Compensation Plans (Continued) 

   The following is a summary of stock options outstanding at the end of   2013  : 

_______________ 
     (1)   Prices include the effect of the special cash dividend noted above. 
  The tax benefits realized, derived from the compensation deductions resulting from the option exercises, and intrinsic value related to total stock options exercised during   2013  ,   2012  , and   2011   are provided in the following table: 

_______________ 
    (1)    The difference between the exercise price and market value of common stock measured at each individual exercise date. 
  Summary of Restricted Stock Unit Activity 
  RSUs granted to employees and to non-employee directors generally vest over   five   years and   three   years, respectively; however, the Company provides for accelerated vesting for employees and non-employee directors who have attained   25   or more years and five or more years of service with the Company, respectively. Recipients are not entitled to vote or receive dividends on non-vested and undelivered shares. At the end of   2013  ,   11,174,000   shares were available to be granted as RSUs under the Sixth Restated 2002 Plan. 
  The following awards were outstanding at the end of   2013  : 
             
    9,355,000   time-based RSUs that vest upon continued employment over specified periods of time; 
                
    726,000   performance-based RSUs, of which   350,000   were granted to certain executive officers subject to the certification of the attainment of specified performance targets for   2013  , which occurred in September 2013. These RSUs vest upon continued employment over specified periods of time.   
       
  The following table summarizes RSU transactions during   2013  : 

The remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs at the end of   2013   was $  504   and the weighted-average period of time over which this cost will be recognized is   1.7   years. Included in the outstanding balance at the end of   2013   were approximately   3,100,000   RSUs vested but not yet delivered. 
    56 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 7 Stock-Based Compensation Plans (Continued) 

   Summary of Stock-Based Compensation 
  The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense and the related tax benefits under the Company s plans: 

Note 8 Retirement Plans 
  The Company has a 401(k) Retirement Plan available to all U.S. employees who have completed   90   days of employment. For all U.S. employees, with the exception of California union employees, the plan allows pre-tax deferrals, which the Company matches (  50%   of the first one thousand dollars of employee contributions). In addition, the Company provides each eligible participant an annual discretionary contribution based on salary and years of service. 
  California union employees are allowed to make pre-tax deferrals into the 401(k) plan, which the Company matches (  50%   of the first five hundred dollars of employee contributions) and provides each eligible participant a contribution based on hours worked and years of service. 
  California union employees participate in a defined benefit plan sponsored by their union under a multi-employer plan, and the Company makes contributions to this plan based upon its union agreement. The Company s contributions to this plan are not material to the Company s consolidated financial statements. 
  The Company has a defined contribution plan for Canadian employees and contributes a percentage of each employee s salary. Certain Other International operations have defined benefit and defined contribution plans that are not significant. Amounts expensed under all plans were   $409  ,   $382  , and   $345   for   2013  ,   2012  , and   2011  , respectively, and were included in selling, general and administrative expenses and merchandise costs in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. 
    Note 9 Income Taxes 
  Income before income taxes is comprised of the following: 

57 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 9 Income Taxes (Continued) 

   The provisions for income taxes for   2013  ,   2012  , and   2011   are as follows: 

Tax benefits associated with the exercise of employee stock options and other employee stock programs were allocated to equity attributable to Costco in the amount of $  59  , $  65  , and $  59  , in   2013  ,   2012  , and   2011  , respectively. 
  The reconciliation between the statutory tax rate and the effective rate for   2013  ,   2012  , and   2011   is as follows: 

The Company s provision for income taxes for   2013   was favorably impacted by a $  62   nonrecurring tax benefit in connection with the special cash dividend of   $7.00   per share paid by the Company to employees, who through the Company's 401(k) Retirement Plan owned   22,600,000   shares of Company stock through an ESOP. Dividends paid on these shares are deductible for U.S. income tax purposes. 
  The Company s provision for income taxes for   2012   was adversely impacted by nonrecurring net tax expense of   $25   relating primarily to the following items: the adverse impact of an audit of Costco Mexico by the Mexican tax authority; the tax effects of the cash dividend declared by Costco Mexico (included in Other in the table above); and the tax effects of nondeductible expenses for the Company s contribution to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State. 
    58 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 9 Income Taxes (Continued) 

   The components of the deferred tax assets (liabilities) are as follows: 

The deferred tax accounts at the end of   2013   and   2012   include current deferred income tax assets of $  422   and $  393   respectively, included in deferred income taxes and other current assets; non-current deferred income tax assets of $  62   and $  58  , respectively, included in other assets; and non-current deferred income tax liabilities of $  450   and $  412  , respectively, included in deferred income taxes and other liabilities. 
  The Company has not provided for U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative undistributed earnings of $  3,619   and $  3,162   at the end of   2013   and   2012  , respectively, of certain non-U.S. consolidated subsidiaries as such earnings are deemed by the Company to be indefinitely reinvested. Because of the availability of U.S. foreign tax credits and complexity of the computation, it is not practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax liability that would be associated with such earnings if such earnings were not deemed to be indefinitely reinvested. The Company believes that its U.S. current and projected asset position is sufficient to meet its U.S. liquidity requirements and has no current plans to repatriate for use in the U.S. the cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held by these subsidiaries. 
  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for   2013   and   2012   is as follows: 

Included in the balance at the end of   2013  , are $  36   of tax positions for which the ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, other than interest and penalties, the disallowance of these tax positions would not affect the annual effective tax rate but would accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier period. 
  The total amount of such unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate in future periods is $  46   and $  36   at the end of   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
  Accrued interest and penalties related to income tax matters are classified as a component of income tax expense. Interest and penalties recognized by the Company were not material in   2013   and   2012  . Accrued interest and penalties were $  11   and $  16   at the end of   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
  The Company is currently under audit by several taxing jurisdictions in the United States and in several foreign countries. Some audits may conclude in the next 12 months and the unrecognized tax benefits we have recorded in relation to the audits may differ from actual settlement amounts. It is not practical to estimate the effect, if any, of any amount of such change during the next 12 months to previously recorded uncertain tax positions in connection with the audits. The Company does not anticipate that there will be a material increase or decrease in the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months. 
    59 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 9 Income Taxes (Continued) 

   The Company files income tax returns in the United States, various state and local jurisdictions, in Canada and in several other foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state or local examination for years before fiscal 2007. The Company is currently subject to examination in Canada for fiscal years 2009 to present and in California for fiscal years 2004 to present. No other examinations are believed to be material. 
    Note 10 Net Income per Common and Common Equivalent Share  
  The following table shows the amounts used in computing net income per share and the effect on net income and the weighted average number of shares of potentially dilutive common shares outstanding (shares in 000 s): 

Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies 
  Legal Proceedings 
  The Company is involved in a number of claims, proceedings and litigation arising from its business and property ownership. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the Company establishes an accrual for legal proceedings if and when those matters reach a stage where they present loss contingencies that are both probable and reasonably estimable. In such cases, there may be a possible exposure to loss in excess of any amounts accrued. The Company monitors those matters for developments that would affect the likelihood of a loss and the accrued amount, if any, thereof, and adjusts the amount as appropriate. If the loss contingency at issue is not both probable and reasonably estimable, the Company does not establish an accrual, but will continue to monitor the matter for developments that will make the loss contingency both probable and reasonably estimable. As of the date of this report, the Company has not recorded an accrual with respect to any matter described below. In each case, there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may be incurred, including a loss in excess of the applicable accrual. For matters where no accrual has been recorded, the possible loss or range of loss (including any loss in excess of our accrual) cannot in our view be reasonably estimated because, among other things, (i) the remedies or penalties sought are indeterminate or unspecified, (ii) the legal and/or factual theories are not well developed; and/or (iii) the matters involve complex or novel legal theories or a large number of parties. 
  The Company is a defendant in the following matters, among others: 
  A case brought as a class action on behalf of certain present and former female managers, in which plaintiffs allege denial of promotion based on gender in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and California state law. Shirley  Rae  Ellis v. Costco Wholesale Corp., United States District Court (San Francisco), Case No. C-04-3341-MHP. Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief, interest and attorneys  fees. Class certification was granted by the district court on January 11, 2007. On September 16, 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the order of class certification and remanded to the district court for further proceedings. On September 25, 2012, the district court certified a class of women in the United States denied promotion to warehouse general manager or assistant general manager since January 3, 2002. Currently the class is believed to be approximately   1,150   people. A trial has been set for March 2014.   In October 2013 the parties reached an agreement in principle on a settlement, which is subject to the execution of definitive documentation and court approval. Any payments to class members would be contingent upon proof of liability in individual hearings.  Payments under the settlement would be immaterial to the Company s operations or financial position. 
  Numerous putative class actions have been brought around the United States against motor fuel retailers, including the Company, alleging that they have been overcharging consumers by selling gasoline or diesel that is warmer than   60   degrees without adjusting the volume sold to compensate for heat-related expansion or disclosing the effect of such expansion on the  
    60 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) 

   energy equivalent received by the consumer. The Company is named in the following actions: Raphael Sagalyn, et al., v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-430 (D. Md.); Phyllis Lerner, et al., v. Costco Wholesale Corporation, et al., Case No. 07-1216 (C.D. Cal.); Linda A. Williams, et al., v. BP Corporation North America, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-179 (M.D. Ala.); James Graham, et al. v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al., Civil Action No. 07-193 (E.D. Va.); Betty A. Delgado, et al., v. Allsups, Convenience Stores, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-202 (D.N.M.); Gary Kohut, et al. v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-285 (D. Nev.); Mark Rushing, et al., v. Alon USA, Inc., et al., Case No. 06-7621 (N.D. Cal.); James Vanderbilt, et al., v. BP Corporation North America, Inc., et al., Case No. 06-1052 (W.D. Mo.); Zachary Wilson, et al., v. Ampride, Inc., et al., Case No. 06-2582 (D. Kan.); Diane Foster, et al., v. BP North America Petroleum, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-02059 (W.D. Tenn.); Mara Redstone, et al., v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al., Case No. 07-20751 (S.D. Fla.); Fred Aguirre, et al. v. BP West Coast Products LLC, et al., Case No. 07-1534 (N.D. Cal.); J.C. Wash, et al., v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al.; Case No. 4:07cv37 (E.D. Mo.); Jonathan Charles Conlin, et al., v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al.; Case No. 07 0317 (M.D. Tenn.); William Barker, et al. v. Chevron USA, Inc., et al.; Case No. 07-cv-00293 (D.N.M.); Melissa J. Couch, et al. v. BP Products North America, Inc., et al., Case No. 07cv291 (E.D. Tex.); S. Garrett Cook, Jr., et al., v. Hess Corporation, et al., Case No. 07cv750 (M.D. Ala.); Jeff Jenkins, et al. v. Amoco Oil Company, et al., Case No. 07-cv-00661 (D. Utah); and Mark Wyatt, et al., v. B. P. America Corp., et al., Case No. 07-1754 (S.D. Cal.). On June 18, 2007, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation assigned the action, entitled In re Motor Fuel Temperature Sales Practices Litigation, MDL Docket No 1840, to Judge Kathryn Vratil in the United States District Court for the District of Kansas. On April 12, 2009, the Company agreed to settle the actions in which it is named as a defendant. Under the settlement, which is subject to final approval by the court, the Company agreed, to the extent allowed by law, to install over five years from the effective date of the settlement temperature-correcting dispensers in the States of Alabama, Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, and Virginia. Other than payments to class representatives, the settlement does not provide for cash payments to class members. On September 22, 2011, the court preliminarily approved a revised settlement, which did not materially alter the terms. On April 24, 2012, the court granted final approval of the revised settlement. A class member who objected has filed a notice of appeal from the order approving the settlement. Plaintiffs have moved for an award of $  10 million   in attorneys  fees, as well as an award of costs and payments to class representatives. The Company has opposed the motion. 
  On October 4, 2006, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney s Office for the Central District of California, seeking records relating to the Company s receipt and handling of hazardous merchandise returned by Costco members and other records. The Company has entered into a tolling agreement with the United States Attorney s Office. 
  The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued an Information Request to the Company, dated November 1, 2007, regarding warehouses in the states of Arizona, California, Hawaii, and Nevada and relating to compliance with regulations concerning air-conditioning and refrigeration equipment. On March 4, 2009, the Company was advised by the Department of Justice that the Department was prepared to allege that the Company has committed at least nineteen violations of the leak-repair requirements of 40 C.F.R.   82.156(i) and at least seventy-four violations of the recordkeeping requirements of 40 C.F.R.   82.166(k), (m) at warehouses in these states. The Company has responded to these allegations, is engaged in communications with the Department about these and additional allegations, and has entered into tolling agreements. Substantial penalties may be levied for violations of the Clean Air Act. The Company is cooperating with this inquiry. 
  On October 7, 2009, the District Attorneys for San Diego, San Joaquin and Solano Counties filed a complaint, People of the State of California v. Costco Wholesale Corp., et al, No. 37-2009-00099912 (Superior Court for the County of San Diego), alleging on information and belief that the Company has violated and continues to violate provisions of the California Health and Safety Code and the Business and Professions Code through the use of certain spill clean-up materials at its gasoline stations. In July 2013, the matter was settled with, among other things, payment of an immaterial sum to the County of San Diego as partial reimbursement for costs incurred in the matter. 
  The Company has received notices from most states stating that they have appointed an agent to conduct an examination of the books and records of the Company to determine whether it has complied with state unclaimed property laws. In addition to seeking the turnover of unclaimed property subject to escheat laws, the states may seek interest, penalties, costs of examinations, and other relief. The State of Washington conducted such an examination on its own behalf and on February 4, 2011 issued an assessment.  The Company filed suit to contest the assessment. In November 2012 the matter was settled for an amount that was immaterial and less than the amount of the assessment. 
    61 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued) 
  Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) 

   The Company has received from the Drug Enforcement Administration subpoenas and administrative inspection warrants concerning the Company's fulfillment of prescriptions related to controlled substances and related practices.  The Company is seeking to cooperate with these processes. 
  The Company does not believe that any pending claim, proceeding or litigation, either alone or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position; however, it is possible that an unfavorable outcome of some or all of the matters, however unlikely, could result in a charge that might be material to the results of an individual fiscal quarter. 
    Note 12 Segment Reporting 
  The Company and its subsidiaries are principally engaged in the operation of membership warehouses in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom, Japan, and Australia and through majority-owned subsidiaries in Taiwan and Korea. The Company s reportable segments are largely based on management s organization of the operating segments for operational decisions and assessments of financial performance, which considers geographic locations. The material accounting policies of the segments are the same as described in Note 1. All material inter-segment net sales and expenses have been eliminated in computing total revenue and operating income. Certain operating expenses, predominantly stock-based compensation, are incurred on behalf of the Company's Canadian and Other International Operations, but are included in the U.S. Operations because those costs are not allocated internally and generally come under the responsibility of the Company's U.S. management team. 

62 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued)  

Note 13 Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  
  The two tables that follow reflect the unaudited quarterly results of operations for   2013   and   2012  . 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Includes a   $62   tax benefit recorded in the second quarter in connection with the special cash dividend paid to employees through the Company's             401(k) Retirement Plan. 
        63 

     Table of Contents  
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (amounts in millions, except share data and warehouse number data) (Continued)  

Note 13 Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) (Continued) 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Includes a $  17   charge to selling, general and administrative for contributions to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State. 
              (2) 
    Includes a $  24   charge relating to the settlement of an income tax audit in Mexico. 

64 

EXHIBIT INDEX 

The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or are incorporated herein by reference. 

65 

EXHIBIT INDEX (Continued) 

_____________________ 
  *   Management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement. 
    66 

<EX-10.5>
 2
 costex10510k2013.htm
 EX - 10.5

COST EX 10.5 10K 2013 

Exhibit 10.5 
    
  COSTCO DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
    
  Amended and Restated June 19, 2013 
    
  Article 1 - Introduction 
    
  This deferred compensation plan was established by Costco Wholesale Corporation, a Washington corporation ( Costco ), on January 30, 1990, and has been amended and restated from time to time.  This is the restated Plan on June 19, 2013.  The purpose of this plan is to provide flexibility in timing the receipt of compensation to a select group of management and highly compensated employees and for non-employee members of the Board of Directors of Costco.   
    
  Article 2 - Definitions 
    
  Whenever used in this plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set out below, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.  When the defined meaning is intended, the term is capitalized. 
    
           2.1 
    "  Account  " - The separate bookkeeping account established for each Participant on the books of the Company for purposes of recording amounts credited with respect to each Plan Year's deferral under the Plan and any associated Company matching credits, if applicable, under Article 5 and interest credits under Article 7.  "Accounts" shall refer to the aggregate accounts of each Participant.  Effective September 4, 2001, all bookkeeping accounts established under the   Costco Deferred Compensation Plan for Employees of The Price Company   shall be transferred to become Accounts in this Plan, each participant with an account in that plan shall become a Participant in this Plan, and that plan shall be terminated.   
       
           2.2 
       Affiliate    - Any entity with which the Company would be considered a single employer under Section 414(b) or Section 414(c) of the Code, except that, for purposes of determining whether there is a controlled group or common control, the language  at least 50 percent  is used instead of  at least 80 percent.  
       
           2.3 
       Board    - The Board of Directors of Costco. 
       
           2.4 
    "  Bonus  " - A bonus awarded during the Plan Year under the Costco Executive Bonus Plan or such other bonus or variable compensation arrangement as the Company may from time to time adopt and/or designate as an eligible source of compensation that may be deferred under the Plan.  Bonus shall be calculated before reduction for compensation voluntarily deferred or contributed by the Participant pursuant to all qualified or nonqualified plans of the Company and shall be calculated to include amounts not otherwise included in Participant s gross income under Code Section 125, 402(e)(3), 402(h), or 403(b) pursuant to plans established by the Company; provided, however, that all such amounts will be included in compensation only to the extent that had there been no such plan, the amount would have been payable in cash to the Participant. 
       
           2.5 
       Change of Control    - A change in the ownership of the Company, a change in the effective control of the Company, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company, as defined for purposes of Code section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v). 
       
           2.6 
    "  Committee  " - The "Benefits Committee" appointed by Costco to administer the employee benefit programs offered to employees and Directors of Costco and its subsidiaries.  If there is no acting committee, the Plan shall be administered by Costco acting through its Chief Financial Officer.   

2.8 
    "  Company  " - Costco Wholesale Corporation and any Affiliate thereof.  
       
           2.9 
       Director    - A non-employee member of the Board.  
       
           2.10 
       Director Fees    - The annual fees earned during the Plan Year by a Director from Costco, including retainer fees and meeting fees, as compensation for serving on the Board. 

2.11 
    "  Participant  " - An eligible employee or Director who has elected to defer payment of any portion of, in the case of employees, Salary or Bonus, and in the case of Directors, Director Fees, under the Plan. 
       
           2.12 
    "  Plan  " - The   Costco Deferred Compensation Plan   reflected in this document. 
       
           2.13 
       Plan Year    - A period commencing on January 1 of each calendar year and continuing through December 31 of such calendar year. 
       
           2.14 
    "  Prior Deferred Compensation  " - Amounts that were previously deferred but that are due to be paid out during the year in question. 
       
           2.15 
    "  Salary  " - The basic compensation of a Participant paid by the Company during the Plan Year in question before payroll deductions, but excluding bonuses, fringe benefits, and disability pay.  Salary does not include amounts earned by a Participant after being permanently transferred to a foreign Affiliate and taken off the U.S. payroll.  Salary shall be calculated before reduction for compensation voluntarily deferred or contributed by the Participant pursuant to all qualified or nonqualified plans of the Company and shall be calculated to include amounts not otherwise included in Participant s gross income under Code Section 125, 402(e)(3), 402(h), or 403(b) pursuant to plans established by the Company; provided, however, that all such amounts will be included in compensation only to the extent that had there been no such plan, the amount would have been payable in cash to the Participant. 
       
           2.16 
       Separation from Service    - A  separation from service,  as defined in Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-1(h), with the Company.  However, with respect to a Participant who provides services to the Company as an employee, a Separation from Service will occur at the date reasonably anticipated by the Committee that the Participant s level of service will permanently decrease to 21% or less of the average level of service provided by the Participant over the immediately preceding 36 month period (or, if providing services for less than 36 months, such lesser period).  For a Participant who provides services to the Company as a Director, a Separation from Service will occur upon the expiration of the Director s term, provided that the expiration of the term is determined by the Committee to constitute a good-faith and complete termination of the service relationship between the Participant and the Company.  For a Participant who provides services to the Company as both an employee and a Director, to the extent permitted by Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-1(h)(5), the services provided by such Participant as a Director shall not be taken into account in determining whether the Participant has experienced a Separation from Service as an employee, and the services provided by such Participant as an employee shall not be taken into account in determining whether the Participant has experienced a Separation from Service as a Director. 
       
  Article 3 - Eligibility and Selection of Participants 
    
  Eligibility shall be limited to (i) a select group of management or highly compensated employees as designated by the Company for each year and (ii) Directors.  For purposes of employees, eligibility for participation in the Plan may change from year to year, depending on an employee's position within the Company or on any other factors at the sole discretion of the Company.   
    
  Article 4 - Election to Defer 
    
           4.1 
    Initial Deferral Election  .  Prior to December 15 of the calendar year immediately preceding the applicable Plan Year, or such earlier date set by the Committee as necessary to comply with Code section 409A, a Participant may elect to defer a specified amount or stated whole percentage (such method of determining deferrable amount to be determined by the Committee) of the Participant's expected compensation in the Plan Year.   
       
           4.2 
    Source of Deferrals  .  Subject to Section 4.4, a Participant may elect, under the terms and conditions of the Plan, to defer all or a portion of his or her, in the case of employees, Salary and/or Bonus, and in the case of Directors, Director Fees.  Such election shall be made by written or electronic notice in the manner specified by the Company and shall be irrevocable on December 15 or such earlier date set by the Committee under Section 4.1 as the last day for making the election.   
       
           4.3 
    Crediting of Deferrals  .  A Participant's Account shall be credited with the appropriate deferral at the time the Salary and/or Bonus or Director Fees, as applicable, would have been paid to the Participant if a deferral election had not been made, or in any other manner determined by the Company; provided that such deferrals during the applicable Plan Year, in the aggregate, shall reflect the Participant s elections in accordance with Code  

section 409A.  If an expected item of compensation would not have been paid to the Participant for any reason, the deferral election is inoperative, and no deferral shall be credited for that item.   
    
           4.4 
    Deductions  .  The Company shall deduct from any deferred amount any necessary payroll withholding and all other amounts it may be required to withhold from the deferral amount by law, to the extent allowed under Code section 409A, and the amount credited to a Participant s Account shall be reduced by any such deductions.  In addition, for Participants who are employees, the Company shall first deduct from a Participant's Salary or Bonus any other allowed voluntary deductions the Participant may have elected (excluding deferrals under the Company s 401(k) retirement plan), such as deductions for health care or other benefits, and any other amounts required to be deducted by law, such as amounts that must be paid according to a legally established lien, levy, or court order.  The maximum amount that can be elected to be deferred shall be the remaining amount of Salary or Bonus after all such deductions (excluding deferrals under the Company s 401(k) retirement plan) from Salary or Bonus under this Section 4.4.   
       
  Article 5 - Company Matching Credit for Employees 
    
           5.1 
    Matching Amount  .  For each Participant who is an employee, the Company will match a portion of each Participant's annual deferral of Salary and Bonus by crediting to his or her Account an amount equal to 50% of the Salary and Bonus deferred by the Participant, up to a maximum credit by the Company of $5,000 per Plan Year.  Such amounts will be credited on or about January 1 following the Plan Year of such annual deferral only to Participants who are still employed by the Company on January 1 following the year of deferral.  No matching credit shall be given for re-deferrals of Prior Deferred Compensation.   
       
           5.2 
    Vesting  .  The Company matching contributions credited under this Article shall vest on a "class year" basis, as follows: 
       
           a. 
    20% immediately on the January 1 that the Company match is credited to a Participant's Account; and 
       
           b. 
    An additional 20% each following January 1, subject to the employment requirement described below, until the matching credit is 100% vested. 
       
  Vesting applies to each year's matching credit on a separate, "class year" basis.  Thus, five years after a Participant's matching contribution is first credited in connection with the Participant s first deferral, the Participant will be 100% vested in that first year's matching credit, but not in the matching credits posted for deferrals in subsequent years, which vest separately according to the number of years that pass from the time of each deferral.   
    
  A Participant must remain employed by the Company on the vesting date in order to be entitled to vesting credits on any January 1.  However, a Participant shall become 100% vested in all Company matching credits, regardless of the class year vesting that would otherwise apply, in the following events:   
    
           a. 
    The Participant becomes totally disabled (as determined in accordance with Section 6.5) while employed by the Company;  
       
           b. 
    The Participant dies while employed by the Company;  
       
           c. 
    The Participant earns 65 "Vesting Points" while employed by the Company.  A Participant shall be credited with one Vesting Point for each year of service as an employee with the Company and one Vesting Point for each year of age not to exceed 60 years of age.  If a Participant experiences a Separation from Service after having reached 65 Vesting Points and is subsequently rehired, he will continue to be treated as having earned 65 Vesting Points on rehire.  If a Participant experiences a Separation from Service without earning 65 Vesting Points, and is subsequently rehired, years of service with the Company will include only those years of service beginning after the Participant is rehired. 
       
           5.3 
    Forfeiture of Credits for Cause  .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company retains the right to void the Company matching credit posted under Section 5.1, together with interest posted on all of a Participant's Accounts, if a Participant is terminated for cause.   

Article 6 - Timing and Manner of Distribution 
    
           6.1 
    Option  .  At the time of each deferral election, a Participant shall make an irrevocable election to receive payment of his or her Account (along with any vested portion of the Company's matching credit, if applicable, for that Account and the earnings credited to that Account) in one of the forms set forth in Section 6.1(a) and commencing on one of the times or events set forth in Sections 6.1(b):   
       
           a. 
    Form of Payment  . 
              i. 
    Payment of the Account in a single lump sum payment; or 
              ii. 
    Payment of the Account in a specified number of approximately equal annual installments (with a maximum of ten installments), with the first installment occurring at the time set forth in the election under Section 6.1(b) (or, where no election is made, pursuant to Section 6.1(d)). 
       
           b. 
    Time of Payment 
              i. 
    In the first calendar quarter of a specified calendar year five or more years after the Plan Year during which such compensation would have been paid, were it not deferred; or 
              ii. 
    The date of your Separation from Service, subject to any delay required under Section 6.4. 
       
           c. 
    In addition to the payment times or events set forth in Section 6.1(b), a Participant may elect to receive payment of his or her Account in a lump sum payment upon a Change of Control that occurs prior to one of the times or events set forth in Section 6.1(b).  An election to receive distribution pursuant to this Section 6.1 (c) may not be changed pursuant to Section 6.2 or otherwise and an initial deferral election that did not include a distribution pursuant to this Section 6.1(c) may not be changed pursuant to Section 6.2 or otherwise to add a distribution pursuant to this Section 6.1(c). 
       
           d. 
    If a Participant fails to specify one of the payment options described above, such Participant shall be deemed to have specified the single lump sum payment option payable five years after the calendar year during which the compensation would have been paid, were it not deferred (and, for the avoidance of any doubt, the Account shall not be paid upon a Change of Control pursuant to Section 6.1(c) that occurs prior to the time contemplated under this Section 6.1(d)).  If a Participant elects installment payments, the amount of any given installment shall be determined by dividing the then-current value of the Account by the remaining number of unpaid installments. 
       
  If a Participant elects to defer compensation to a specified calendar year pursuant to Section 6.1(b)(i), the minimum period of deferral is five years.  For example, if funds were deferred from income otherwise payable in calendar year 2014, the earliest a lump sum payment or installment payment can be made from those particular funds would be in the first calendar quarter of the year 2019.  However, to the extent the Participant elects to have the distribution of his Account accelerated to the date of a Change of Control, the distribution will be made earlier than the times or events specified in Section 6.1(b).  In addition, distribution will be made earlier if a Participant dies, becomes totally disabled (as determined in accordance with Section 6.5), or experiences a Separation from Service before reaching the age of 65, in the case of deferrals made before 1997, or before earning 65  Vesting Points  while employed by the Company, in the case of deferrals made on or after January 1, 1997 (in accordance with Section 6.3). 
    
           6.2 
    Change in Time or Form of Distribution  .  A Participant may change the time or form of distribution of all or a portion of Prior Deferred Compensation except for Prior Deferred Compensation that was elected to be distributed upon Separation from Service pursuant to Section 6.1(b)(ii) or upon a Change of Control pursuant to Section 6.1(c)  A Participant s election to change the time or form of distribution of Prior Deferred Compensation pursuant to the foregoing sentence shall be made by such date set by the Committee and shall be irrevocable as of the last date set for making such election.  Such election shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the date of the election, must be made no less than 12 months prior to the date of the otherwise scheduled first payment of the Prior Deferred Compensation, and must defer payment not less than 5 years from the date payment would otherwise be made or, in the case of installments, would begin to be made.  For the avoidance of any doubt, in the event of an election that is subsequently changed pursuant to this Section 6.2 to provide for a distribution upon a Separation from Service, any distribution that is made pursuant to the new distribution election shall not be made prior to the fifth anniversary of the date that the payment would otherwise have been made pursuant to the distribution election that was previously in effect, notwithstanding the occurrence of a Separation from Service before the fifth anniversary. 

6.3 
    Termination Before Age 65 Without 65 Vesting Points  .  Except as provided in Section 6.4, upon a Participant s Separation from Service prior to reaching age 65, in the case of deferrals made before 1997, or before earning 65 "Vesting Points" while employed by the Company, in the case of deferrals made on or after January 1, 1997, the Participant's Accounts, to the extent vested, shall be paid to him or her in a lump sum within 90 days after the Participant s Separation from Service.   If a Participant who has experienced a Separation from Service is rehired, the distribution of the Participant s account balance on the Participant s Separation from Service will be made notwithstanding the Participant s being rehired.  For purposes of distribution of account balances contributed after rehire, if a Participant is rehired after having reached age 65  Vesting Points  at the time of the original Separation from Service, he will continue to be treated as having earned 65 Vesting Points on rehire.  If a Participant is rehired after a Separation from Service without earning 65 Vesting Points, years of service with the Company will include only those years of service beginning after the Participant is rehired.  The Company retains the right to void the Company matching credit, as well as interest posted on all of a Participant s Accounts, if the Participant is terminated for cause. 
       
           6.4 
    6-Month Delay Applicable to Specified Employees  .  Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, in the case of a Participant who is determined to be a specified employee under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) at the time of the Participant s Separation from Service, no payment that is scheduled to be made upon a Participant s Separation from Service shall be made before the date that is six months after the Participant s Separation from Service, or upon the Participant s death, if earlier.  A payment otherwise due during the six months after the Participant  Separation from Service shall be paid on the first day following the earlier of (i) the expiration of the sixth month following the date of the Participant s Separation from Service (ii) the Participant s death. 
       
           6.5 
    Death  .  Upon the death of a Participant, his or her Accounts, to the extent vested, shall be paid in a lump sum to his or her designated beneficiary within 90 days after the Participant s death.  If the Participant had designated a spouse as beneficiary but is divorced from that spouse at the time of death, then the designation of the former spouse shall be ineffective, unless the Participant re-designated the former spouse as beneficiary after the date of the divorce.  Any designation of secondary or other beneficiaries shall not be affected by the disqualification of a former spouse, except that the former spouse shall be deemed to have died before the Participant.  If a Participant has not made an effective beneficiary designation under this Plan, or if all designated beneficiaries predecease the Participant, the designated beneficiary shall be the beneficiary designated by the Participant to receive life insurance benefits under The Costco Wholesale Corporation Flexible Benefits Plan, unless that beneficiary is a former spouse designated as beneficiary before the date of the divorce, in which case the former spouse shall be treated as if he or she had died before the Participant.  If no effective beneficiary has been designated by the Participant under the Costco Wholesale Corporation Flexible Benefits Plan, or if all designated beneficiaries predecease the Participant, the death benefit shall be paid to the Participant's estate.  (If a Participant dies while employed by the Company, the Participant's matching credits, if applicable, shall become 100% vested.) 
       
           6.6 
    Disability  .  Upon the total disability of a Participant while employed by the Company, the Participant s matching credits, if applicable, shall become 100% vested and the vested portion of the Participant's Accounts shall be paid to him or her in a lump sum within 90 days after such total disability.  A Participant is totally disabled under this Plan only when found to be totally disabled by the Social Security Administration, and if such Participant presents proof of eligibility for Social Security disability income benefits to the Committee or its designee.   
       
           6.7 
    Distribution of Small Account Balances  .  If at any time after a Participant s Separation from Service or a distribution event specified above, the amount of the Participant s Account is less than the annual limit under Code section 402(g)(1)(B) as in effect at the time of the distribution (in 2013, this limit is $17,500) and as determined in accordance with Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(v), the Committee may, in its sole discretion, elect to distribute the Participant s Account in a lump sum. 
       
           6.8 
    Deductions  .  The Company may deduct from any distribution under this Plan any necessary payroll withholding, any other amounts required to be deducted by law, and any amounts owed by the Participant to the Company to the extent consistent with Code section 409A.   

Article 7 - Interest Credits 
    
           7.1 
    Interest on Accounts  .  As of the end of each month, the Company shall credit to each Participant's Accounts interest on all deferral and matching amounts, if applicable, credited by such time based on the interest rate as determined by Section 7.2 or Section 7.3, whichever is appropriate.   
       
           7.2 
    Normal Interest Rate  .  Interest shall be credited at the monthly equivalent of the annual rate published as the local Bank of America Prime Rate in effect at the date interest is posted.   
       
           7.3 
    Bonus Interest Rate  .  For each Participant who is an Employee, if the Participant dies while employed by the Company, or if the Participant meets either of the service requirements described below, interest shall be credited thereafter at the monthly equivalent of the annual rate published as the local Bank of America Prime Rate plus one percent, and for all the Participant's Accounts then in the Plan, interest shall be recalculated retroactively to add one percent to the interest rate in effect at the time the interest was posted for all years of deferral.  In all situations, the method of calculation shall be determined pursuant to rules of administration established by the Committee.  For purposes of this section, a Participant who is an Employee qualifies for the bonus interest rate in the following events: 
       
           a. 
    The Participant dies while employed by the Company;  
       
           b. 
    With respect to deferrals made before 1997, the Participant reaches the age of at least 65 while the Participant is employed by the Company; or  
       
           c. 
    With respect to deferrals made on or after January 1, 1997, the Participant earns 65 "Vesting Points" while employed by the Company.  A Participant shall be credited with one Vesting Point for each year of service with the Company and one Vesting Point for each year of age not to exceed 60 years of age.  If a Participant is rehired after having earned 65 Vesting Points at the time of the original Separation from Service, he will continue to be treated as having earned 65 Vesting Points on rehire.  If a Participant is rehired after a Separation from Service without earning 65 Vesting Points, years of service with the Company will include only those years of service beginning after the Participant is rehired. 
       
           7.4 
    Forfeiture of Interest for Cause  .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company retains the right to void all interest posted on all of a Participant's Accounts if a Participant is terminated for cause. 
       
  Article 8 - Rights of Participants and Funding 
    
           8.1 
    No Right to Employment  .  Nothing contained in the Plan shall: 
       
           a. 
    Confer upon any Participant any right with respect to continuation of employment with the Company;  
       
           b. 
    Interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate a Participant's employment at any time;   
       
           c. 
    Confer upon any Participant or other person any claim or right to any distribution under the Plan, except in accordance with its terms; or 
       
           d. 
    Guarantee continued eligibility for participation in the Plan. 
       
           8.2 
    Unfunded Plan  .  This Plan shall be unfunded, as that term is defined for tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code and for purposes of Title 1 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).  The Plan constitutes a mere promise by the Company to make benefit payments in the future, and any compensation deferred under this Plan, the Company matching credits, if applicable, and the interest credited to a Participant's Accounts shall continue to be a part of the general assets of the Company.  To the extent that a Participant, former Participant, or beneficiary acquires a right to receive payments from the Plan, such right may be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company. 
       
           8.3 
    Assignment Prohibited  .  Except as expressly provided herein, no right or interest of any Participant or beneficiary in any Account in the Plan shall, prior to actual payment or distribution to such Participant or beneficiary, be assignable or transferable in whole or in part, either voluntarily or by operation of law or otherwise, including by domestic relations order, or be subject to payment of debts of any Participant or beneficiary by execution, levy,  

garnishment, attachment, pledge, bankruptcy, encumbrance, alienation, anticipation, sale, or in any other manner.   
    
  Article 9 - Hardship Payments  
    
           9.1 
    Early Payment of Deferred Amounts  .  Unless otherwise permitted in the Plan, or allowed by the Committee consistent with Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(j)(4), a Participant shall not be entitled to payment of any portion of his or her Accounts before payments are otherwise due under the normal terms of the Plan.  However, in cases of extreme financial hardship, the Committee may authorize (on a nondiscriminatory basis and taking into account other resources of the Participant) a hardship payment of the portion of a Participant s deferral Account (excluding any interest credited to date and any matching credits) in the minimum amount that is required to meet the need created by the extreme financial hardship (including amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated to result from the hardship payment).   
       
  In order to qualify under this section, the hardship must be the result of an unforeseeable emergency.  For this purpose, an  unforeseeable emergency" is an event or circumstance described under Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(i)(3), i.e., an extraordinary and unanticipated emergency that is caused by an event beyond the control of the Participant (such as an illness, accident, casualty or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable event) and that would result in severe financial hardship to the Participant if the early payment were not permitted. The Participant must supply written evidence of the financial hardship and must declare, under penalty of perjury, that the Participant has no other resources available to meet the emergency, including the resources of the Participant s spouse and minor children that are reasonably available to the Participant.  The Participant must also declare that the need cannot be met by any of the following: 
    
           a. 
    Reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise; 
       
           b. 
    Reasonable liquidation of the Participant s assets (or the assets of the spouse or minor children of the Participant) to the extent such liquidation will not itself cause severe financial hardship; 
       
           c. 
    Suspending all of the Participant s contributions to any employee benefit plan (and the spouse s contributions to any plan), including this Plan, to the extent such contributions may or are required to be suspended; or 
       
           d. 
    Applying for distributions or loans from any other plans in which the Participant or the Participant s spouse participate. 
       
  The Committee may delegate decision-making authority hereunder to an independent person who may or may not be an employee of the Company. 

9.2 
    Suspension of Participation  .  A Participant who receives a hardship payment from this Plan shall be suspended from further participation in this Plan for the remainder of the calendar year in which the payment was made.  Moreover, a Participant who receives a hardship distribution from the Costco 401(k) Retirement Plan (or from any other qualified 401(k) plan maintained by the Company) shall be suspended from further participation in this Plan for a period of 12 consecutive months, which period shall be reduced to 6 months effective January 1, 2002.  Deferrals already elected under this Plan shall not be made during any suspension period, and an election for deferrals for a subsequent year shall not be effective until the suspension period has expired.   
       
  Article 10 - Administration 
    
           10.1 
    Plan Amendment or Termination  .  The Company or the Committee may, from time to time, amend or suspend any or all of the provisions of the Plan, prospectively or retroactively as it shall see fit.  The Company or the Committee may also terminate the Plan at any time.  If the Plan is terminated, the value of each Participant's Accounts as of the date of termination shall be fully vested and distributed to such Participant in a lump sum as soon as administratively feasible, as long as such a distribution shall not result in non-compliance with Code section 409A, including the required six-month delay in payments for specified employees, if applicable.  The Plan shall not be amended retroactively in any way that would reduce the accrued vested balance of a Participant's Accounts as of the date of the amendment. 

Amendments to the Plan, including termination of the Plan, shall be valid upon execution by any four members of the Committee, and no formal approval by the Board shall be required.  However, the Company may also amend or terminate the Plan by resolution of the Board or an appropriate subcommittee thereof, and such amendment or termination supersedes any inconsistent action by the Committee, except as provided in Section 10.4, relating to a Change of Control of the Company.  
    
           10.2 
    Plan Administration  .  The administration of the Plan shall be vested in the Committee.  The Committee shall, subject to the express provisions of the Plan, have power to construe the Plan, interpret the meaning of its terms, prescribe rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and make all determinations necessary or advisable for the administration and interpretation of the Plan.  The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission, or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan document in the manner and to the extent deemed expedient to effect the intent of the Company and the purpose of the Plan.  The Committee may delegate all or any part of its power under this Section 10.2 to a single member of the Committee. 
       
           10.3 
    Expenses  .  All expenses and costs incurred in connection with the administration and operation of the Plan shall be borne by the Company. 
       
           10.4 
    Change of Control  .  If the threat of a Change of Control is accompanied by the filing of Form 13-D with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Committee shall meet and discuss what, if any, actions regarding this Plan should be taken.  In that event, the Committee may elect to terminate the Plan within 30 days before or 12 months following the Change of Control; to secure benefits under the Plan by the establishment of a "Rabbi Trust" in the form set out in Revenue Procedure 92-64 (or any successor ruling or regulation that established an IRS model rabbi trust) or in such other form as may be acceptable to the Committee; to accelerate vesting credits under the Plan; to grant all Participants the higher rate of interest described in Section 7.3; or take any other actions that the Committee deems advisable in order to protect the interests of Participants in the Plan.  For the avoidance of any doubt, any action contemplated under this Section 10.4 shall not affect a Participant s election to receive distribution of his Account upon a Change of Control pursuant to Section 6.1(c).  Furthermore, upon and after a Change of Control, the Plan may not be amended or terminated without the consent of the Committee, as the Committee was constituted before the Change of Control occurred.   
       
  Article 11 - Claims Procedure 
    
           11.1 
    Interpretation  .  Any Participant (or the beneficiary of a deceased Participant) desiring a benefit under, interpretation of, ruling under, or information regarding this Plan shall submit a written request regarding the same to the Committee.  The Committee shall respond in writing to any such request as soon as practicable.  Any such ruling or interpretation by the Committee shall be final and binding on all parties, subject to the following appeal procedures. 
       
           11.2 
    Denial of Claim  .  If a claim for benefits under this Plan is denied in whole or in part, the Committee shall notify the claimant in writing of such denial and of his or her right to a conference with an individual designated in the notice for the purpose of explaining the denial.  The denial notice will be provided within 90 days after a claim is received by the Committee.  If special circumstances require an extension of time for processing a claim beyond the initial 90-day period, written notice of the extension will be furnished before the end of the initial 90-day period.  An extension of time will not exceed a period of 90 days from the end of the initial 90-day period.  An extension notice will explain the reasons for the extension and the expected date of a decision. 
       
           11.3 
    Contents of Written Notice of Benefit Denial  .  If a claim for benefits under this Plan is denied, the written notice will include the following: 
                
    the specific reason or reasons for the denial; 
                
    references to the specific Plan provisions on which the denial is based; 
                
    a description of any additional material or information necessary in order to perfect the claim, and an explanation of why such material or information is needed; 
                
    an explanation of the Plan s review procedure for denied claims, including the applicable time limits for submitting a claim for review; and 
                
    a statement of the right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA, if a claim is denied on appeal. 
       
           11.4 
    Appeal Procedure  .  If the claimant does not want a conference, or is dissatisfied with its outcome, the claimant may appeal a denial of a claim for benefits.  The claimant (or a duly authorized representative) must file a written  

appeal with the Committee within 60 days after receipt of written notice of the denial.    
    
  The claimant may submit a written statement, documents, records, and other information.  The claimant may also, free of charge upon request, have reasonable access to and copies of Relevant Documents (as defined in Section 11.7).  The review will consider all statements, documents, and other information submitted by the claimant, whether or not such information was submitted or considered under the initial denial decision.  Claim determinations are made in accordance with Plan documents and, where appropriate, Plan provisions are applied consistently to similarly situated claimants. 
    
           11.5 
    Timing and Effect of Appeal Decision  .  A decision on an appeal will be made by the Committee not later than 60 days after an appeal is received, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, in which case a decision will be rendered not later than 120 days after an appeal is received.  Written notice of any extension of time will be sent before the end of the initial 60-day period explaining the reason for the extension and the expected date of the appeal determination.  If an extension is required because the claimant has not provided the information necessary to decide the claim, the time period for processing the claim will not run from the date of notice of an extension until the earlier of 1) the date the Plan receives a response to a request for additional information or 2) the date set by the Plan for the requested response (at least 45 days). 
       
  The decision by the Committee on review shall be final and binding upon the claimant and all persons claiming by, through, or under the claimant, subject to the right to appeal under applicable law. 
    
           11.6 
    Contents of Appeal Decision  .  The decision on review will be in writing and will include the following information: 
                
    the specific reason or reasons for the decision; 
                
    reference to the specific Plan provisions on which the decision is based; 
                
    a statement of the right to receive, upon request free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of Relevant Documents; and 
                
    a statement of the right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA. 
       
           11.7 
    Relevant Documents  .  Relevant Document means any document, record or other information that: 
                
    was relied upon in making a decision to deny benefits; 
                
    was submitted, considered, or generated in the course of making the decision to deny benefits, whether or not it was relied upon in making the decision to deny benefits; or 
                
    demonstrates compliance with any administrative processes and safeguards designed to confirm that the benefit determination was in accord with the Plan and that Plan provisions, where appropriate, have been applied consistently regarding similarly situated individuals. 
       
  Article 12 - Code Section 409A Savings Clause 
    
  It is the intention of the Company that deferrals of compensation under this Plan shall comply in all respects with Code section 409A.  Should it be determined that any provision or feature of the Plan is not in compliance with Code section 409A, that provision or feature shall be null and void to the extent required to avoid the noncompliance with Code section 409A, and the Company shall have the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to amend or modify the terms of this Plan or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take other action, including any amendments or action that would result in a reduction to the benefit payable under the Plan, in each case, without the consent of the Participant, as may be necessary to ensure that the distributions under this Plan are made in a manner that complies with Code section 409A or to mitigate any additional tax, interest and/or penalties or other adverse tax consequences that may apply under Code section 409A if compliance is not practical; provided, however, that nothing in this Article 12 creates an obligation on the part of the Company to modify the terms of the Plan.  In that light, the Company makes no representation that the terms of the Plan will comply with Code Section 409A or that distributions under the Plan will not be subject to taxes, interest and penalties or other adverse tax consequences under Code section 409A.  In no event whatsoever shall the Company be liable to the Participant or any other party for any additional tax, interest, penalties or other liability that may be imposed on the Participant by Code section 409A or for any action taken by the Company with respect thereto.  To the extent taxation of a Participant is required under Code section 409A, the Participant s Account shall be distributed to the Participant in an amount equal to the amount required to be included in income under Code section 409A less any required income and payroll tax withholdings under Federal, state, local or other tax laws. 

Article 13 - Miscellaneous 
    
           13.1 
    Governing Law  .  This Plan shall be subject to and governed by the laws of the State of Washington, except to the extent preempted by federal law.   
       
           13.2 
    Execution  .  This Plan may be adopted, amended, or terminated by an appropriate instrument signed by any four members of the Costco Benefits Committee, if such a committee has been appointed, and if not, by resolution of the Board.  

Dated:  June 19, 2013 
      
    Costco Benefits Committee 

By: /s/ Pat Callans 
      
    By: /s/ Julie Cruz 
      Pat Callans 
      
    Julie Cruz 

By: /s/ John Eagan 
      
    By: /s/ Richard Galanti 
      John Eagan 
      
    Richard Galanti 

By: /s/ Bob Hickok 
      
    By: /s/ Franz Lazarus 
      Bob Hickok 
      
    Franz Lazarus  

By: /s/ John Matthews 
      
    By: /s/ John McKay 
      John Matthews  
      
    John McKay  

By: /s/ Monica Smith 
      
    By: /s/ Jay Tihinen 
      Monica Smith  
      
    Jay Tihinen 

</EX-10.5>

<EX-21.1>
 3
 costex2110k2013.htm
 EX - 21.1

COST EX 21 10K 2013 

Exhibit 21.1 
    
  SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY 
    
  COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES 
                       Subsidiaries 
      
    State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization 
      
    Name under Which Subsidiary Does Business 
      Costco Canada Holdings Inc. 
      
    Canadian Federal 
      
    Costco Canada Holdings Inc. 
      Costco Wholesale Membership, Inc. 
      
    California 
      
    Costco Wholesale Membership, Inc. 
      Costco Wholesale United Kingdom Ltd. 
      
    United Kingdom 
      
    Costco Wholesale United Kingdom Ltd. 
      Costco Wholesale Canada Ltd. 
      
    Canadian Federal 
      
    Costco Wholesale Canada, Ltd., Costco Wholesale 
      NW Re Ltd. 
      
    Arizona 
      
    NW Re Ltd. 
      PriceCostco International, Inc. 
      
    Nevada 
      
    PriceCostco International, Inc. 
      Costco Wholesale Korea, Ltd. 
      
    Korea 
      
    Costco Wholesale Korea, Ltd. 
      Costco de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
      
    Mexico 
      
    Costco de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
      Costco Wholesale Japan, Ltd. 
      
    Japan 
      
    Costco Wholesale Japan, Ltd. 
      Costco Insurance Agency, Inc. 
      
    United States 
      
    Costco Insurance Agency, Inc. 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 costex2310k2013.htm
 EX - 23.1

COST EX 23 10K 2013 

Exhibit 23.1 
    
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
  The Board of Directors  
  Costco Wholesale Corporation:  
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-82782, 333-120523, 333-129172, 333-135052, 333-150014, 333-151748, 333-165550, 333-180163, and 333-187418) on Form S-8 and the registration statements (Nos. 333-140651 and 333-185166) on Form S-3 of Costco Wholesale Corporation of our reports dated October 16, 2013, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Costco Wholesale Corporation as of September 1, 2013 and September 2, 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the 52-week period ended September 1, 2013, the 53-week period ended September 2, 2012, and the 52-week period ended August 28, 2011, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of September 1, 2013, which reports appear in the September 1, 2013 annual report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation.  

/s/ KPMG LLP 

Seattle, Washington  
  October 16, 2013  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 costex3110k2013.htm
 EX - 31.1

COST EX 31 10K 2013 

Exhibit 31.1 
  CERTIFICATIONS 
  I, W. Craig Jelinek, certify that: 
           1) 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation ( the registrant  
              2) 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3) 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4) 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5) 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
  October 16, 2013    
    
                 /s/    W. C  RAIG   J  ELINEK 
      
      W. Craig Jelinek 
      
      President and Chief Executive Officer 

CERTIFICATIONS 
  I, Richard A. Galanti, certify that: 
           1) 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation ( the registrant  
              2) 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3) 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4) 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5) 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
  October 16, 2013    
    
                 /s/    R  ICHARD   A. G  ALANTI 
      
      Richard A. Galanti 
      
      Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 costex3210k2013.htm
 EX - 32.1

COST EX 32 10K 2013 

Exhibit 32.1 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  In connection with the Annual Report of Costco Wholesale Corporation (the Company) on Form 10-K for the year ended   September 1, 2013  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Report), I, W. Craig Jelinek, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
           (1) 
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
              (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
                      /s/ W. C  RAIG   J  ELINEK 
      
    Date: October 16, 2013 
      W. Craig Jelinek 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

A signed original of this written statement has been provided to and will be retained by Costco Wholesale Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  In connection with the Annual Report of Costco Wholesale Corporation (the Company) on Form 10-K for the year ended   September 1, 2013  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Report), I, Richard A. Galanti, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
           (1) 
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
              (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
                      /s/ R  ICHARD   A. G  ALANTI 
      
    Date: October 16, 2013 
      Richard A. Galanti 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

A signed original of this written statement has been provided to and will be retained by Costco Wholesale Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 7
 cost-20130901.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 8
 cost-20130901.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 9
 cost-20130901_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 10
 cost-20130901_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 11
 cost-20130901_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 12
 cost-20130901_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

