<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20180220_10-K_edgar_data_1163165_0001193125-18-049729_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>27517659</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>654280</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1192070</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>8413737</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>12711753</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3434486</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>170</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-18-049729.hdr.sgml : 20180220
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20180220100326
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-18-049729
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		168
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20171231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20180220
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20180220

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CONOCOPHILLIPS
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001163165
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PETROLEUM REFINING [2911]
		IRS NUMBER:				010562944
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-32395
		FILM NUMBER:		18623436

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		CONOCOPHILLIPS
		STREET 2:		600 NORTH DAIRY ASHFORD ROAD
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77079
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2812931000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		CONOCOPHILLIPS
		STREET 2:		600 NORTH DAIRY ASHFORD ROAD
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77079

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CORVETTEPORSCHE CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20011204

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-18-049729.txt : 20180220

10-K
 1
 d534096d10k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents  

   2017       
       
 UNITED STATES    SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION    Washington, D.C. 20549  
  Form  10-K    
 (Mark One)  
 
 For the fiscal year ended           December     31,
2017                                         
         OR      
   For the transition period from
                                         to
                                          
 Commission file number:   001-32395    
  ConocoPhillips      (Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)       

Delaware  
   
   01-0562944    
 
    (State or other jurisdiction of     
   
    (I.R.S. Employer     
 
    incorporation or organization)    
   
    Identification No.)     
    600 North Dairy Ashford   
  Houston, TX 77079   
  (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)   
 Registrant s telephone number, including area code:
   281-293-1000       Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:      

Title of each class   

Name of each exchange  
  on which registered    

Common Stock, $.01 Par Value 

New York Stock Exchange  
 
     7% Debentures due 2029 

New York Stock Exchange  
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None  
 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  
 [x]  Yes    [  ]  No  
 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  
 [  ]  Yes    [x]  No  
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  
 [x]  Yes    [  ]  No  
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required
to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation  S-T  during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  
 [x]  Yes    [  ]  No  
 Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation  S-K  is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form  10-K  or any amendment to this
Form  10-K.  [  ]    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a  non-accelerated  filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,   smaller
reporting company  and  emerging growth company  in Rule  12b-2  of the Exchange Act.  
 Large accelerated filer [x]    Accelerated filer
 [  ]    Non-accelerated  filer [  ]    Smaller reporting company [  ]  
 Emerging growth company [  ]    If an
emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.
[  ]    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule  12b-2  of the
Act). [  ]  Yes    [x]  No    The aggregate market value of common stock held by  non-affiliates  of the registrant on June 30, 2017, the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, based on the closing price on that date of $43.96, was
$54.0 billion.    The registrant had 1,174,577,506 shares of common stock outstanding at January 31, 2018.  
  Documents incorporated by reference:   
 Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 15, 2018 (Part III)  

Table of Contents  

     TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Item  

Page  

PART I   

1 and 2.  
   
    Business and Properties   

1 

Corporate Structure   

1 

Segment and Geographic Information   

2 

Alaska   

3 

Lower 48   

5 

Canada   

7 

Europe and North Africa   

8 

Asia Pacific and Middle East   

11 

Other International   

15 

Competition   

18 

General   

18 

1A.  
   
    Risk Factors   

20 

1B.  
   
    Unresolved Staff Comments   

25 

3.  
   
    Legal Proceedings   

25 

4.  
   
    Mine Safety Disclosures   

25 

Executive Officers of the Registrant   

26 

PART II    

5.  
   
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

27 

6.  
   
    Selected Financial Data   

29 

7.  
   
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
 of Operations   

30 

7A.  
   
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

72 

8.  
   
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

75 

9.  
   
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
 Disclosure   

174 

9A.  
   
    Controls and Procedures   

174 

9B.  
   
    Other Information   

174 

PART III    

10.  
   
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

175 

11.  
   
    Executive Compensation   

175 

12.  
   
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
 Stockholder Matters    

175 

13.  
   
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

175 

14.  
   
    Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

175 

PART IV    

15.  
   
    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

176 

Signatures   

188 

Table of Contents  

     PART I   
 Unless otherwise indicated,  the company,   we,   our,   us  and  ConocoPhillips  are used in this report to
refer to the businesses of ConocoPhillips and its consolidated subsidiaries. Items 1 and 2 Business and Properties, contain forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements relating to our plans, strategies, objectives,
expectations and intentions that are made pursuant to the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words  anticipate,   estimate,   believe,   budget, 
 continue,   could,   intend,   may,   plan,   potential,   predict,   seek,   should,   will,   would,   expect, 
 objective,   projection,   forecast,   goal,   guidance,   outlook,   effort,   target  and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. The company does
not undertake to update, revise or correct any forward-looking information unless required to do so under the federal securities laws. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the company s
disclosures under the heading  CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE  SAFE HARBOR  PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995,  beginning on page 70.  
    Items 1 and 2. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES   
    CORPORATE STRUCTURE   
 ConocoPhillips is the world s largest independent exploration and production (E P) company, based on proved reserves and production of liquids and
natural gas. ConocoPhillips was incorporated in the state of Delaware on November 16, 2001, in connection with, and in anticipation of, the merger between Conoco Inc. and Phillips Petroleum Company. The merger between Conoco and Phillips was
consummated on August 30, 2002.    In April 2012, ConocoPhillips completed the separation of the downstream business into an independent, publicly
traded energy company, Phillips 66.    Headquartered in Houston, Texas, we have operations and activities in 17 countries. Our diverse portfolio includes
resource-rich North American tight oil and oil sands assets; lower-risk conventional assets in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia; several liquefied natural gas (LNG) developments; and an inventory of global conventional and unconventional
exploration prospects.    At December 31, 2017, ConocoPhillips employed approximately 11,400 people worldwide.  
 We operate in a commodity-price driven industry, subject to volatility. In line with this view, we set our operating plan for 2017, defining our cash
allocation priorities which would be reinforced and partly funded by sales of noncore assets during the year. In November 2016, we announced our plan to generate $5 billion to $8 billon of proceeds over two years by optimizing our
portfolio to focus on value-preserving, low   cost-of-supply   projects that strategically fit our development plans. In 2017, our total consideration from asset
dispositions was approximately $16 billion. We disposed of assets including our 50 percent nonoperated interest in the Foster Creek Christina Lake (FCCL) Partnership, as well as the majority of our western Canada gas assets, and our
interest in the San Juan Basin gas asset. Proceeds from dispositions were directed towards our cash allocation priorities and for general corporate purposes. For additional information on our cash allocation priorities and our asset sales, see the
Business Environment and Executive Overview section within Management s Discussion and Analysis and Note 4 Assets Held for Sale, Sold or Acquired, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively.  
      1  

Table of Contents  

     SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION   
 For operating segment and geographic information, see Note 23 Segment Disclosures and Related Information, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.    We explore for, produce, transport and market crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas
liquids on a worldwide basis. At December 31, 2017, our operations were producing in the United States, Norway, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Timor-Leste, Indonesia, China, Malaysia, Qatar and Libya.  
 The information listed below appears in the  Oil and Gas Operations  disclosures following the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is
incorporated herein by reference:      

Proved worldwide crude oil, natural gas liquids, natural gas and bitumen reserves.    

Net production of crude oil, natural gas liquids, natural gas and bitumen.    

Average sales prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids, natural gas and bitumen.    

Average production costs per barrel of oil equivalent (BOE).    

Net wells completed, wells in progress and productive wells.    

Developed and undeveloped acreage.      The following table is a summary of the proved reserves information
included in the  Oil and Gas Operations  disclosures following the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Approximately 77 percent of our proved reserves are located in politically stable countries that belong to the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development. Natural gas reserves are converted to BOE based on a 6:1 ratio: six thousand cubic feet (MCF) of natural gas converts to one BOE. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations for a discussion of factors that will enhance the understanding of the following summary reserves table.      
 
      2  

Table of Contents  

  Total production, including Libya, of 1,377 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (MBOED) decreased
12 percent in 2017 compared with 2016. The decrease in total average production primarily resulted from noncore asset dispositions, including our Canada and San Juan transactions in 2017 and the sale of our interest in the Block B production
sharing contract (PSC) in Indonesia in 2016, and normal field decline. The decrease in production was partly offset by production from major developments, including tight oil plays in the Lower 48; Malikai and the Kebabangan gas field in Malaysia;
Surmont in Canada; and APLNG in Australia. Improved drilling and well performance in Alaska, Norway and China also partly offset the decrease in production. Excluding Libya, our 2017 production was 1,356 MBOED. Adjusted for the impact of closed and
planned dispositions of 191 MBOED in 2017 and 434 MBOED in 2016 and Libya, underlying production increased 32 MBOED, or 3 percent, compared with 2016.  
 Our worldwide annual average realized price was $39.19 per BOE in 2017, an increase of 38 percent compared with $28.35 per BOE in 2016, reflecting higher
average realized prices across all commodities. Our worldwide annual average crude oil price increased 27 percent in 2017, from $40.86 per barrel in 2016 to $51.96 per barrel in 2017. Additionally, our worldwide annual average natural gas
liquids prices increased 51 percent, from $16.68 per barrel in 2016 to $25.22 per barrel in 2017. Our worldwide annual average natural gas price increased 36 percent, from $3.00 per MCF in 2016 to $4.07 per MCF in 2017. Average annual
bitumen prices also increased 48 percent, from $15.27 per barrel in 2016 to $22.66 per barrel in 2017.      ALASKA  
 The Alaska segment primarily explores for, produces, transports and markets crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. We are the largest crude oil
producer in Alaska and have major ownership interests in two of North America s largest oil fields located on Alaska s North Slope: Prudhoe Bay and Kuparuk. We also have a significant operating interest in the Alpine Field, located on the
Western North Slope. Additionally, we are one of Alaska s largest owners of state, federal and fee exploration leases, with approximately 1 million net undeveloped acres at  year-end  2017. Alaska
operations contributed 22 percent of our worldwide liquids production and less than 1 percent of our natural gas production.      
    *Thousands of barrels per day.   
  **Millions of cubic feet per day.   
   Greater Prudhoe Area      The Greater Prudhoe Area
includes the Prudhoe Bay Field and five satellite fields, as well as the Greater Point McIntyre Area fields. Prudhoe Bay, the largest oil field on Alaska s North Slope, is the site of a large waterflood and enhanced oil recovery operation, as
well as a gas plant which processes natural gas to recover natural gas liquids before reinjection into the reservoir. Prudhoe Bay s satellites are Aurora, Borealis, Polaris, Midnight Sun and Orion, while the Point McIntyre, Niakuk, Raven,
Lisburne and North Prudhoe Bay State fields are part of the Greater Point McIntyre Area.  
      3  

Table of Contents  

    Greater Kuparuk Area    
 We operate the Greater Kuparuk Area, which consists of the Kuparuk Field and four satellite fields: Tarn, Tabasco, Meltwater and West Sak. Kuparuk is located
40 miles west of Prudhoe Bay. Field installations include three central production facilities which separate oil, natural gas and water, as well as a separate seawater treatment plant. Development drilling at Kuparuk consists of rotary-drilled wells
and horizontal multi-laterals from existing well bores utilizing coiled-tubing drilling.    Drill Site 2S, in the southwestern area of the Kuparuk Field,
was sanctioned in October 2014. First oil was achieved in October 2015, and completion of the first phase of the project was achieved in 2016.    The 1H
Northeast West Sak (NEWS) oil development targeting the West Sak reservoir in the Kuparuk River Unit, was sanctioned in March 2015. First production was achieved in the fourth quarter of 2017.  
   Western North Slope      On the Western North Slope,
we operate the Colville River Unit, which includes the Alpine Field and three satellite fields: Nanuq, Fiord and Qannik. Alpine is located 34 miles west of Kuparuk. In 2015, first oil was achieved at Alpine West CD5, a new drill site which extends
the Alpine reservoir west into the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska  (NPR-A).  During the year, we continued drilling additional wells using the available well slots on the pad.  
 The Greater Mooses Tooth Unit, the first unit established entirely within the  NPR-A,  was formed in 2008. In 2017, we
began construction in the unit, which is currently planned to have two drill sites; Greater Mooses Tooth #1 and #2, with expected first oil in 2018 and 2021, respectively.  
   Cook Inlet Area      In January 2018, we sold our
interest in the Kenai LNG Facility in the Cook Inlet Area. The facility, which consisted of a 1.6   million-tons-per-year   capacity plant, as well as docking and loading
facilities for LNG tankers, had no LNG export program in 2017 due to market conditions.      Point Thomson    
 In the first quarter of 2017, we recorded an asset impairment and assigned our 4.9 percent interest in the Point Thomson unit, located approximately 60
miles east of Prudhoe Bay, to the other owners of the field.      Alaska North Slope Gas    
 In 2016, we, along with affiliates of Exxon Mobil Corporation, BP p.l.c. and Alaska Gasline Development Corporation (AGDC), a state-owned corporation
(collectively, the  AKLNG  co-venturers ),  completed preliminary  front-end  engineering and design  (pre-FEED)  technical
work for a potential LNG project which would liquefy and export natural gas from Alaska s North Slope and deliver it to market. In September 2016, we, along with the affiliates of ExxonMobil and BP, indicated our intention not to progress
into the next phase of the project due to changes in the economic environment. AGDC is continuing to progress the project and has recently signed several Memorandums of Understanding with various potential LNG buyers in Asia. We remain supportive of
AGDC s efforts to advance the project and intend to make our equity gas available for sale to the project at mutually agreed, commercially reasonable terms.  
   Exploration      Appraisal of the Willow Discovery,
located in the northeast portion of the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska, continued throughout 2017 with the acquisition of  3-D  seismic which is currently being processed. In 2018, we will continue appraisal
of the discovery with drilling of additional wells. Further exploration of other state and federal leases is planned in 2018.    We were successful in state
and federal lease sales in the North Slope in the fourth quarter of 2017, where we were the high bidder on 13 tracts for a total of approximately 78,000 net acres.  
      4  

Table of Contents  

    Acquisition    
 In January 2018, we entered into an agreement to acquire certain oil and gas assets in Alaska. The acquisition is subject to regulatory approval. We will have
a 100 percent interest in approximately 1.2 million acres of exploration and development lands, including the Willow Discovery. For additional information, see Note 4 Assets Held for Sale, Sold or Acquired, in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.      Transportation    
 We transport the petroleum liquids produced on the North Slope to south central Alaska through an  800-mile  pipeline
that is part of Trans-Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS). We have a 29.1 percent ownership interest in TAPS, and we also have ownership interests in the Alpine, Kuparuk and Oliktok pipelines on the North Slope.  
 Our wholly owned subsidiary, Polar Tankers, Inc., manages the marine transportation of our North Slope production, using five company-owned, double-hulled
tankers, and charters third-party vessels as necessary. The tankers deliver oil from Valdez, Alaska, primarily to refineries on the west coast of the United States.  
   LOWER 48    The Lower 48 segment
consists of operations located in the U.S. Lower 48 states and the Gulf of Mexico. The Lower 48 business is organized within three regions covering the Gulf Coast,  Mid-Continent  and Rockies. As a result of
tight oil opportunities, we have directed our investments toward certain shorter cycle time, low   cost-of-supply   plays. We disposed of several noncore assets within the
Lower 48 in 2017, including our interests in the San Juan Basin and the Panhandle. We hold 10.4 million net onshore and offshore acres in the Lower 48. In 2017, the Lower 48 contributed 30 percent of our worldwide liquids production
and 27 percent of our natural gas production.      
     Onshore      We hold
10.4 million net acres of onshore conventional and unconventional acreage in the Lower 48, the majority of which is either held by production or owned by the company. Our unconventional holdings total approximately 1.8 million net acres in
the following areas:      

630,000 net acres in the Bakken, located in North Dakota and eastern Montana.    

134,000 net acres in the Permian, located in West Texas and southeastern New Mexico.    
      5  

Table of Contents  

98,000 net acres in the Niobrara, located in northeastern Colorado.    

66,000 net acres in the Barnett, located in north central Texas.    
   The majority of our 2017 onshore production
originated from the Eagle Ford; San Juan, which we disposed of during the year; Bakken; and Permian. Onshore activities in 2017 were centered mostly on continued development of assets, with an emphasis on areas with low cost of supply, particularly
in growing unconventional plays. The 2017 drilling activity levels increased relative to 2016 due to higher capital spending. Our major focus areas in 2017 included the following:  

Bakken We operated four rigs throughout the year in the Bakken. We continued our pad drilling with 87 operated wells drilled during the year and 64 operated wells brought online. We achieved net peak production of
75 MBOED in 2017, compared with 72 MBOED in 2016.    

Permian Basin The Permian Basin is an area where we are leveraging our conventional legacy position by utilizing new technology to improve the ultimate recovery and value from these fields. This technology should
also identify new, unconventional plays across the region. We hold approximately 1 million net acres in the Permian, which includes 134,000 net unconventional acres. The Permian Basin produced 63 MBOED in 2017, staying essentially flat with
2016, including 19 MBOED of unconventional production.      We completed the sale of our interests in the San Juan Basin on July 31,
2017, and Panhandle assets on September 29, 2017. Production from the assets sold was 74 MBOED, approximately 19 percent of total Lower 48 segment production in 2017. For additional information on our asset dispositions, see Note
4 Assets Held for Sale, Sold or Acquired, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      Gulf of Mexico    
 At  year-end  2017, our portfolio of producing properties in the Gulf of Mexico primarily consisted of one operated field
and three fields operated by  co-venturers,  totaling approximately 68,000 net acres, including:      

15.9 percent nonoperated working interest in the unitized Ursa Field located in the Mississippi Canyon Area.    

15.9 percent nonoperated working interest in the Princess Field, a northern subsalt extension of the Ursa Field.    

12.4 percent nonoperated working interest in the unitized K2 Field, comprised of seven blocks in the Green Canyon Area.    
   Exploration        

Conventional Exploration        At December 31, 2017, we held approximately 5,000
net acres in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.    Our 30 percent nonoperated working interest in the Shenandoah discovery was announced in
2009. In early 2017, the sixth Shenandoah well, Shenandoah  WR52-3,  reached total depth and was followed by the drilling of a sidetrack well from Shenandoah  WR52-3. 
Following the suspension of appraisal activity by the operator during the year, we recorded dry hole and leasehold impairment expense for the entire development. On December 19, 2017, we elected to withdraw from the Shenandoah leases. The
withdrawal was effective February 17, 2018.  
      6  

Table of Contents  

Unconventional Exploration        Our onshore focus areas include the Niobrara in the
Denver-Julesburg Basin and the Permian in the Delaware Basin, as well as several emerging plays. We continue to assess and appraise these and other unconventional opportunities. In 2016 and 2017, we drilled a total of five operated unconventional
wells in the Powder River Basin, four of which were expensed as dry holes in November 2017. The fifth Powder River Basin well was expensed as a dry hole in January 2018.  
  Facilities       Golden Pass LNG Terminal    
 We have a 12.4 percent ownership interest in the Golden Pass LNG Terminal and affiliated Golden Pass Pipeline, with a combined net book value of
approximately $247 million at December 31, 2017. It is located adjacent to the Sabine-Neches Industrial Ship Channel northwest of Sabine Pass, Texas. The terminal became commercially operational in May 2011. We hold terminal and pipeline
capacity for the receipt, storage and regasification of the LNG purchased from Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (3) (QG3) and the transportation of regasified LNG to interconnect with major interstate natural gas pipelines. Utilization of the
terminal has been and is expected to be limited, as market conditions currently favor the flow of LNG to European and Asian markets. As a result, we are evaluating opportunities to optimize the value of the terminal facilities.  
   Other    

Lost Cabin Gas Plant We operate and own a 46 percent interest in the Lost Cabin Gas Plant, a 246 million   cubic-feet-per-day  
capacity natural gas processing facility in Lysite, Wyoming.    

Helena Condensate Processing Facility We operate and own the Helena Condensate Processing Facility, a 110,000   barrel-per-day  
condensate processing plant located in Kenedy, Texas.    

Sugarloaf Condensate Processing Facility We operate and own an 87.5 percent interest in the Sugarloaf Condensate Processing Facility, a 30,000
  barrel-per-day   condensate processing plant located near Pawnee, Texas.    

Bordovsky Condensate Processing Facility We operate and own the Bordovsky Condensate Processing Facility, a 15,000   barrel-per-day  
condensate processing plant located in Kenedy, Texas.        CANADA  
 Our Canadian operations mainly consist of an oil sands development in the Athabasca Region of northeastern Alberta and a liquids-rich unconventional play in
western Canada. In 2017, operations in Canada contributed 16 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 6 percent of our natural gas production.      
 
      7  

Table of Contents  

  On May 17, 2017, we completed the sale of our 50 percent nonoperated interest in the FCCL Partnership,
as well as the majority of our western Canada gas assets to Cenovus Energy. Production from the assets sold was 103 MBOED, approximately 62 percent of the total Canada segment production in 2017. For additional information on our asset
dispositions, see Note 4 Assets Held for Sale, Sold or Acquired, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      Oil Sands    
 Our bitumen resources in Canada are produced via an enhanced thermal oil recovery method called steam-assisted gravity drainage (SAGD), whereby steam is
injected into the reservoir, effectively liquefying the heavy bitumen, which is recovered and pumped to the surface for further processing. We hold approximately 0.6 million net acres of land in the Athabasca Region of northeastern Alberta.
   Surmont The Surmont oil sands leases are located approximately 35 miles south of Fort McMurray, Alberta. Surmont is a 50/50 joint venture with Total
S.A. The second phase of the Surmont project achieved first production in 2015, and production continued to ramp up in 2017.      Exploration
     We hold exploration acreage in three areas of Canada: onshore western Canada, the Mackenzie Delta/Beaufort Sea Region and the Arctic
Islands. Our primary exploration focus is on unconventional plays in western Canada.      

Unconventional Exploration        We hold approximately 0.1 million net acres in
the emerging Montney play in northeast British Columbia and 0.2 million net acres in Canol Northwest Territories. Our Montney activity in 2017 included completing two and bringing onstream six appraisal wells and acquiring approximately 27,000
additional net acres. Late appraisal drilling activity will continue in 2018 to further explore the area s resource potential.      

Conventional Exploration        Surrender of Interest documents for our 30 percent
nonoperated working interest in six exploration licenses in the Shelburne Basin, offshore Nova Scotia, were submitted on December 15, 2017, to initiate the exit process, following previously announced results of the  two-well  exploration drilling campaign at Cheshire and Monterey Jack.      EUROPE AND NORTH AFRICA
   The Europe and North Africa segment consists of operations and exploration activities in Norway, the United Kingdom and Libya. In 2017, operations in
Europe and North Africa contributed 18 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 15 percent of natural gas production.     Norway  

8  

Table of Contents  

  The Greater Ekofisk Area is located approximately 200 miles offshore Stavanger, Norway, in the North Sea,
and comprises three producing fields: Ekofisk, Eldfisk and Embla. Crude oil is exported to Teesside, England, and the natural gas is exported to Emden, Germany. The Ekofisk and Eldfisk fields consist of several production platforms and facilities,
including the Ekofisk South and Eldfisk II developments which achieved first production in 2013 and 2015, respectively. Continued development drilling in the Greater Ekofisk Area will contribute additional production over the coming years, as
additional wells come online.    The Alvheim Field is located in the northern part of the North Sea near the border with the U.K. sector, and consists of a
floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel and subsea installations. Produced crude oil is exported via shuttle tankers, and natural gas is transported to the Scottish Area Gas Evacuation (SAGE) terminal at St. Fergus, Scotland,
through the SAGE pipeline.    The Heidrun Field is located in the Norwegian Sea. Produced crude oil is stored in a floating storage unit and exported via
shuttle tankers. Part of the natural gas is currently injected into the reservoir for optimization of crude oil production, some gas is transported to Europe via gas processing terminals in Norway, while the remainder is transported for use as
feedstock in a methanol plant in Norway, in which we own an 18 percent interest.    We also have varying ownership interests in five other producing
fields in the Norway sector of the North Sea, as well as the Aasta Hansteen development in the Norwegian Sea. The operator is planning for first gas for Aasta Hansteen by late 2018.  
   Exploration      In 2017, we participated in the
Korpfjell Well in the Barents Sea and the Carmen Well in the Heidrun Area of Norway, both of which made gas discoveries. The Carmen Well was considered a discovery and is currently under evaluation, while the Korpfjell Well is not considered
commercial. In 2017, we were awarded four new exploration licenses including the PL865, PL888, PL890 and PL891; and two acreage additions PL053C and PL782SC. Additionally, two new licenses, PL775 and PL626, were captured through  farm-in.       Transportation    
 We own a 35.1 percent interest in the Norpipe Oil Pipeline System, a  220-mile  pipeline which carries crude oil
from Ekofisk to a crude oil stabilization and natural gas liquids processing facility in Teesside, England.     United Kingdom   
   
    * Includes the Chevron-operated Alder Field, ConocoPhillips equity 26.3%.   
 Britannia is one of the largest natural gas and condensate fields in the North Sea. We assumed operatorship of Britannia in August 2015, following the
acquisition of third-party equity in Britannia Operator Limited, which is now wholly owned by ConocoPhillips. Condensate is delivered through the Forties Pipeline to an oil stabilization and processing plant near the Grangemouth Refinery in
Scotland, while natural gas is transported through Britannia s line to St. Fergus, Scotland. The Britannia satellite fields, Callanish, Brodgar, Enochdhu and Alder, produce via subsea manifolds and pipelines linked to the Britannia Platform.
 
      9  

Table of Contents  

  The  J-Area  consists of the Judy/Joanne, Jade and Jasmine fields, located
in the U.K. Central North Sea. The  J-Area  gas is processed on the Judy Platform and transported through the Central Area Transmission System Pipeline, while liquids are transported to Teesside through the
Norpipe system. A  J-Area  development drilling campaign commenced in 2017, which is expected to provide additional volumes in the coming years as wells are brought online.  
 We have various ownership interests in several producing gas fields in the Rotliegendes and Carboniferous areas of the Southern North Sea. Decommissioning
activity in the Southern North Sea is ongoing. Our interests in the East Irish Sea include the Millom, Dalton and Calder fields, which are operated on our behalf by a third party.  
 We own a 24 percent interest in the Clair Field, located in the Atlantic Margin. Clair Ridge is the second phase of development for the Clair Field and
is comprised of a  36-slot  drilling and production facility with a bridge-linked accommodation and utilities platform. The new facilities will tie into existing oil and gas export pipelines to the Shetland
Islands. Initial production for Clair Ridge is expected in 2018.      Transportation    
 We operate the Teesside oil and Theddlethorpe gas terminals in which we have 29.3 percent and 50 percent ownership interests, respectively. We also
have a 100 percent ownership interest in the Rivers Gas Terminal, operated by a third party.     Libya   
   
   The Waha Concession consists of multiple concessions and encompasses nearly 13 million gross acres in the Sirte Basin.
Our production operations in Libya and related oil exports were interrupted in  mid-2013,  as a result of the shutdown of the Es Sider crude oil export terminal at the end of July 2013. The Es Sider Terminal
briefly reopened in the third quarter of 2014 and production and liftings resumed temporarily; however, further disruptions occurred in December 2014, and production was shut in again. Production resumed in Libya in October 2016. In 2017, we had 17
crude liftings from Es Sider. We expect a gradual, continued  ramp-up  in activity.  
      10  

Table of Contents  

    ASIA PACIFIC AND MIDDLE EAST  
 The Asia Pacific and Middle East segment has exploration and production operations in China, Indonesia, Malaysia and Australia; producing operations in Qatar
and Timor-Leste; and exploration activities in Brunei. In 2017, operations in the Asia Pacific and Middle East segment contributed 14 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 52 percent of natural gas production.  
  Australia and Timor Sea       
     Australia Pacific LNG    
 Australia Pacific LNG Pty Ltd (APLNG), our joint venture with Origin Energy Limited and China Petrochemical Corporation (Sinopec), is focused on producing
coalbed methane (CBM) from the Bowen and Surat basins in Queensland, Australia, to supply the domestic gas market and convert the CBM into LNG for export. Origin operates APLNG s upstream production and pipeline system, and we operate the
downstream LNG facility, located on Curtis Island near Gladstone, Queensland, as well as the LNG export sales business.    Two fully subscribed    4.5-million-metric-tonnes-per-year    LNG trains have been completed. Approximately 3,900 net wells are ultimately envisioned to supply
both the domestic gas market and the LNG sales contracts. The wells are supported by gathering systems, central gas processing and compression stations, water treatment facilities, and an export pipeline connecting the gas fields to the LNG
facilities. The first APLNG Train 1 cargo sailed in January 2016, and LNG sales continued throughout the year. APLNG Train 2 achieved first production in the third quarter of 2016. The LNG is being sold to Sinopec under  20-year  sales agreements for 7.6 million metric tonnes of LNG per year, and Japan-based Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. under a  20-year  sales agreement for approximately
1 million metric tonnes of LNG per year.    APLNG has an $8.5 billion project finance facility, which was fully drawn down and had an outstanding
balance of $7.9 billion at December 31, 2017. In connection with the execution of the project financing, we provided a completion guarantee for our  pro-rata  share of the project finance facility
until the project achieves financial completion. In October 2016, we reached financial completion for Train 1, which reduced our associated guarantee by 60 percent. In August 2017, we reached financial completion for Train 2, which removed the
remaining guarantee. For additional information, see Note 2 Variable Interest Entities (VIEs), Note 5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, and Note 11 Guarantees, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
   Bayu-Undan      The Bayu-Undan gas condensate field is
located in the Timor Sea Joint Petroleum Development Area between Timor-Leste and Australia. We also operate and own a 56.9 percent interest in the associated Darwin LNG Facility, located at Wickham Point, Darwin.  
 The Bayu-Undan natural gas recycle facility processes wet gas; separates, stores and offloads condensate, propane and butane; and  re-injects  dry gas back into the reservoir. In addition, a  310-mile  natural gas pipeline connects the facility to the    3.5-million-metric-tonnes-per-year    capacity Darwin LNG Facility. Produced natural gas is piped to the Darwin LNG Plant, where it is converted into LNG before being
transported to international markets. In 2017, we sold 150 billion gross cubic feet of LNG primarily to utility customers in Japan.  
      11  

Table of Contents  

  A continuation of the Bayu-Undan Phase Three Development has been sanctioned with internal, joint venture and
regulatory approval in March 2017. The project premise consists of one subsea and two platform wells, with drilling to commence in April 2018. Production is expected to commence in the third quarter of 2018.  
   Athena/Perseus      The Athena production license   (WA-17-L)   is located offshore Western Australia and contains part of the Perseus Field, which straddles the boundary with   WA-1-L,   an adjoining license area. Natural gas is produced from these licenses, which are due to expire in 2019.  
   Greater Sunrise      We have a 30 percent
interest in the Greater Sunrise natural gas and condensate field located in the Timor Sea. Timor-Leste and Australia through engagement in a conciliation process under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea have reached agreement on the
central elements of a maritime boundary delimitation between them in the Timor Sea. The Governments  agreement, to be formalized in a new treaty, constitutes a package that addresses boundaries, the legal status of the Greater Sunrise gas
field, the establishment of a Special Regime for Greater Sunrise, a pathway to development of the resource and the sharing of resulting revenue. Discussions are ongoing between the two Governments and the Sunrise
 co-venturers  with respect to the development concept for Greater Sunrise. Until the Governments and the Sunrise  co-venturers  are aligned on a development concept,
activities are currently restricted to compliance and social investment, maintaining relationships and continued engagement with the Governments for a future development option.  
   Exploration        

Conventional Exploration        We operate three exploration permits in the Browse
Basin, offshore northwest Australia, in which we own a 40 percent interest in permits   WA-315-P,  
  WA-398-P   and TP 28, of the Greater Poseidon Area. The TP 28 Western Australia State exploration permit was granted for five years from January 2017, with a
40 percent working interest and was excised from the existing permits as agreed between state and federal regulators. Phase I of the Browse Basin drilling campaign in 2009/2010 resulted in three discoveries in the Greater Poseidon Area:  Poseidon-1,   Poseidon-2  and  Kronos-1.  Phase II of the drilling campaign resulted in five additional discoveries:  Boreas-1,   Zephyros-1,   Proteus-1  SD2,  Poseidon-North-1  and
 Pharos-1.  All wells have been completed, plugged and abandoned.    We operate two retention leases
in the Bonaparte Basin, offshore northern Australia, where we own a 37.5 percent interest in leases NT/RL5 and NT/RL6, containing the Barossa and Caldita discoveries. A  3-D  seismic survey was completed
over the Barossa and Caldita fields in 2016. The drilling of the  Barossa-5  and  Barossa-6  appraisal wells was completed in 2017 with good quality,  gas-bearing  reservoir intersected at both. Additionally, the retention lease over the Barossa Discovery was renewed during the year.  
  Indonesia       
 
      12  

Table of Contents  

  We operate three PSCs in Indonesia: The Corridor Block and South Jambi  B,  both located in South
Sumatra, and Kualakurun in Central Kalimantan. Currently there is production from the Corridor Block.      South Sumatra    
 The Corridor PSC consists of five oil fields and seven natural gas fields in various stages of development. Natural gas is supplied from the Grissik and Suban
gas processing plants to the Duri steamflood in central Sumatra and to markets in Singapore, Batam and West Java. Production from the South Jambi  B  PSC has reached depletion and field development has been suspended.  
   Exploration      We have a 60 percent working
interest in the Kualakurun PSC, located in Central Kalimantan, which was signed in May 2015. This block has an area of approximately 2 million gross acres. During 2017, we acquired  2-D  seismic data in the
area.      Transportation      We are a
35 percent owner of a consortium company that has a 40 percent ownership in PT Transportasi Gas Indonesia, which owns and operates the Grissik to Duri and Grissik to Singapore natural gas pipelines.  
  China       
   The Penglai  19-3,   19-9  and  25-6  fields are located in Bohai Bay Block 11/05. Production from the Phase 1 development of the Penglai  19-3  Field began in 2002. Phase 2 included six additional wellhead
platforms and an FPSO vessel, and was fully operational by 2009.    As part of further development of the Penglai
 19-9  Field, a new wellhead platform, which adds up to 62 wells, is progressing according to schedule, with 19 wells completed and brought online through December 2017.  
 We sanctioned the Penglai   19-3/19-9   Phase 3 Project in December 2015. This
project will consist of three new wellhead platforms and a central processing platform. First oil from Phase 3 is expected in 2018.    The Panyu
development, located in Block 15/34 in the South China Sea, is comprised of three oil fields:  Panyu 4-2,  Panyu  5-1  and Panyu
 11-6.  The production period for Panyu  4-2  and  5-1  will expire in 2018, and the production period for Panyu  11-6  will expire in 2022.      Exploration    
 In 2017, we participated in a successful appraisal well in the Penglai Field, which will support future development plans. In late 2017, we began a full-field  3-D  seismic program at Penglai, covering Phase 3 and other future development opportunities. The program is expected to continue in 2018.  
      13  

Table of Contents  

   Malaysia       
   We own interests in six PSCs in Malaysia. Three are located off the eastern Malaysian state of Sabah: Block G, Block J and the
Kebabangan Cluster (KBBC). Three other blocks, Deepwater Block 3E, Block SK313 and Block  WL4-00  are located off the eastern Malaysian state of Sarawak.  
   Block G      We have a 21 percent interest in the
unitized Siakap North-Petai oil field, which began producing in the first quarter of 2014.    First production from the Malikai oil field was achieved in
December 2016, with estimated net annual peak production of 21 MBOED expected in 2018. We own a 35 percent interest in Malikai. The  Limbayong-2  appraisal well was drilled in 2013 and resulted in an oil
discovery. The well was expensed in 2017.      Block J    
 First production from the Gumusut Field occurred from an early production system in 2012. Production from a permanent, semi-submersible floating production
vessel was achieved in October 2014. Our ownership in the Gumusut Field is currently at 29 percent following the finalization of the unitization with Brunei and a redetermination of the Block J and Block K Malaysia Unit, both in 2017. Gumusut
Phase 2 infill drilling is planned to start in 2018.      KBBC    
 We own a 30 percent interest in the KBBC PSC. Development of the KBB gas field commenced in 2011, and first production was achieved in November 2014.
Development options for the Kamunsu East gas field are being evaluated.      Exploration    
 We own a 50 percent operated interest in Deepwater Block 3E, which encompasses approximately 480,000 gross acres offshore Sarawak. Seismic processing
was completed in 2015. The  Langsat-1  exploration well was drilled and expensed as a dry hole in 2017.    In the
fourth quarter of 2016, we entered into a  farm-in  agreement to acquire a 50 percent interest in Block SK 313, a 1.4 million gross-acre exploration block, effective January 2017. Following
completion of the  Sadok-1  exploration well in January 2017, we assumed operatorship of the block from PETRONAS.  
 We were awarded Block  WL4-00,  which encompasses approximately 629,000 gross acres, in January 2017. We have a
50 percent operated interest in this block which includes the  Salam-1  oil discovery.    We completed a  3-D  seismic survey in Block SK 313 and Block  WL4-00  in 2017. Further exploration drilling is expected to occur in 2018.  
      14  

Table of Contents  

   Brunei   
   Exploration      We have a 6.25 percent working
interest in the deepwater Block  CA-2  PSC. Exploration has been ongoing since September 2011, with natural gas discovered at the Kelidang  NE-1  and  Keratau-1  wells in 2013 and at the Keratau  SW-1  Well in 2015. Evaluation of the results is ongoing.  
  Qatar       
   QG3 is an integrated development jointly owned by Qatar Petroleum (68.5 percent), ConocoPhillips (30 percent) and
Mitsui   Co., Ltd. (1.5 percent). QG3 consists of upstream natural gas production facilities, which produce approximately 1.4 billion gross cubic feet per day of natural gas from Qatar s North Field over a  25-year  life, in addition to a 7.8 million gross   tonnes-per-year   LNG facility. LNG is shipped in leased LNG carriers destined for
sale globally.    QG3 executed the development of the onshore and offshore assets as a single integrated development with Qatargas 4 (QG4), a joint
venture between Qatar Petroleum and Royal Dutch Shell plc. This included the joint development of offshore facilities situated in a common offshore block in the North Field, as well as the construction of two identical LNG process trains and
associated gas treating facilities for both the QG3 and QG4 joint ventures. Production from the LNG trains and associated facilities is combined and shared.  
   OTHER INTERNATIONAL    The Other
International segment includes exploration activities in Colombia and Chile.     Colombia   
   Unconventional Exploration      We have an
80 percent operated interest in the Middle Magdalena Basin Block  VMM-3.  The block extends over approximately 67,000 net acres and contains the  Picoplata-1  well,
which completed drilling in 2015 and testing in 2017. Socialization and environmental permitting activities are expected to continue throughout 2018.    In
July 2017, ConocoPhillips Colombia Ventures Ltd. and Canacol Energy Colombia S.A. executed an Additional Contract for the exploration and exploitation of unconventional reservoirs in an area identified as the
 VMM-2  Block. As a result, ConocoPhillips Colombia Ventures Ltd. and Canacol Energy Colombia S.A. also executed a joint operating agreement. We have an 80 percent operated working interest in the
block which extends over approximately 58,000 net acres and is contiguous to the  VMM-3  Block.      
 In 2017, we relinquished our 70 percent nonoperated interests in the deep rights in the Santa Isabel Block and terminated the exploration and production
contract for the VMM27 Block, both in the Middle Magdalena Basin.  
      15  

Table of Contents  

   Chile   
   Exploration      We have a 49 percent interest in
the Coiron Block located in the Magallanes Basin in southern Chile. In December 2017, two wells drilled in 2016, were expensed as dry holes.     Venezuela
and Ecuador     For discussion of our contingencies in Venezuela and Ecuador, see Note 12 Contingencies and Commitments, in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.    OTHER     Marketing Activities
    Our Commercial organization manages our worldwide commodity portfolio, which mainly includes natural gas, crude oil, bitumen, natural gas liquids and
LNG. Marketing activities are performed through offices in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. In marketing our production, we attempt to minimize flow disruptions, maximize realized prices and manage credit-risk exposure. Commodity sales
are generally made at prevailing market prices at the time of sale. We also purchase and sell third-party volumes to better position the company to satisfy customer demand while fully utilizing transportation and storage capacity.  
   Natural Gas      Our natural gas production, along
with third-party purchased gas, is primarily marketed in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. Our natural gas is sold to a diverse client portfolio which includes local distribution companies; gas and power utilities; large industrials;
independent, integrated or state-owned oil and gas companies; as well as marketing companies. To reduce our market exposure and credit risk, we also transport natural gas via firm and interruptible transportation agreements to major market hubs.
     Crude Oil, Bitumen and Natural Gas Liquids    
 Our crude oil, bitumen and natural gas liquids revenues are derived from production in the United States, Canada, Australia, Asia, Africa and Europe. These
commodities are primarily sold under contracts with prices based on market indices, adjusted for location, quality and transportation.      LNG
     LNG marketing efforts are focused on equity LNG production facilities located in Australia and Qatar. LNG is primarily sold under long-term
contracts with prices based on market indices.     Energy Partnerships   
   Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC)      We are a
founding member of the MWCC, a  non-profit  organization formed in 2010, which provides well containment equipment and technology in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico. MWCC s containment system meets the
U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement requirements for a subsea well containment system that can respond to a deepwater well control incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. For additional information, see Note 2 Variable Interest
Entities (VIEs), in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     Subsea Well Response Project (SWRP)    
 In 2011, we, along with several leading oil and gas companies, launched the SWRP, a  non-profit  organization based in
Stavanger, Norway, which was created to enhance the industry s capability to respond to international subsea well control incidents. Through collaboration with Oil Spill Response Limited, a  non-profit 
organization in the United Kingdom, subsea well intervention equipment is available for the industry to use in the event of a subsea well incident. This complements the work being undertaken in the United States by MWCC.  
      16  

Table of Contents  

    Oil Spill Response Removal Organizations (OSROs)    
 We maintain memberships in several OSROs across the globe as a key element of our preparedness program in addition to internal response resources. Many of the
OSROs are   not-for-profit   cooperatives owned by the member companies wherein we may actively participate as a member of the board of directors, steering committee, work
group or other supporting role. Globally, our primary OSRO is Oil Spill Response Ltd. based in the U.K., with facilities in several other countries and the ability to respond anywhere in the world. In North America, our primary OSROs include the
Marine Spill Response Corporation for the continental U.S. and Alaska Clean Seas and Ship Escort/Response Vessel System for the Alaska North Slope and Prince William Sound, respectively. Internationally, we maintain memberships in various regional
OSROs including the Norwegian Clean Seas Association for Operating Companies, Australian Marine Oil Spill Center and Petroleum Industry of Malaysia Mutual Aid Group.  
  Technology     We have several technology programs that
improve our ability to develop unconventional reservoirs, produce heavy oil economically with fewer emissions, improve the efficiency of our company s exploration program, increase recoveries from our legacy fields, and implement sustainability
measures.    Our Optimized Cascade    LNG liquefaction technology business continues to be successful
with the demand for new LNG plants. The technology has been licensed for use in 25 LNG trains around the world, with feasibility studies ongoing for additional trains.  
      17  

Table of Contents  

   RESERVES   
 We have not filed any information with any other federal authority or agency with respect to our estimated total proved reserves at December 31, 2017. No
difference exists between our estimated total proved reserves for  year-end  2016 and  year-end  2015, which are shown in this filing, and estimates of these reserves shown
in a filing with another federal agency in 2017.     DELIVERY COMMITMENTS   
 We sell crude oil and natural gas from our producing operations under a variety of contractual arrangements, some of which specify the delivery of a fixed and
determinable quantity. Our commercial organization also enters into natural gas sales contracts where the source of the natural gas used to fulfill the contract can be the spot market or a combination of our reserves and the spot market. Worldwide,
we are contractually committed to deliver approximately 1.7 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, including approximately 303 billion cubic feet related to the noncontrolling interests of consolidated subsidiaries, and 99 million barrels of
crude oil in the future. These contracts have various expiration dates through the year 2029. We expect to fulfill the majority of these delivery commitments with proved developed reserves. In addition, we anticipate using proved undeveloped
reserves and spot market purchases to fulfill any remaining commitments. See the disclosure on  Proved Undeveloped Reserves  in the  Oil and Gas Operations  section following the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for
information on the development of proved undeveloped reserves.       COMPETITION   
 We compete with private, public and state-owned companies in all facets of the E P business. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater
resources. Each of our segments is highly competitive, with no single competitor, or small group of competitors, dominating.    We compete with numerous
other companies in the industry, including state-owned companies, to locate and obtain new sources of supply and to produce oil, bitumen, natural gas liquids and natural gas in an efficient, cost-effective manner. Based on statistics published in
the September 4, 2017, issue of the  Oil and Gas Journal , we were the third-largest U.S.-based oil and gas company in worldwide liquids production and reserves, and the fourth-largest U.S.-based oil and gas company in worldwide natural
gas production and reserves in 2016. We deliver our production into the worldwide commodity markets. Principal methods of competing include geological, geophysical and engineering research and technology; experience and expertise; economic analysis
in connection with portfolio management; and safely operating oil and gas producing properties.       GENERAL   
 At the end of 2017, we held a total of 734 active patents in 47 countries worldwide, including 328 active U.S. patents. During 2017, we received 32 patents in
the United States and 40 foreign patents. Our products and processes generated licensing revenues of $79 million in 2017. The overall profitability of any business segment is not dependent on any single patent, trademark, license, franchise or
concession.    Company-sponsored research and development activities charged against earnings were $100 million, $116 million and
$222 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.      Health, Safety and Environment    
 Our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) organization provides tools and support to our business units and staff groups to help them ensure world class health,
safety and environmental performance. The framework through which we safely manage our operations, the HSE Management System Standard, emphasizes process safety, risk management, emergency preparedness and environmental performance, with an intense
focus on  
      18  

Table of Contents  

  process and occupational safety. In support of the goal of zero incidents, HSE milestones and criteria are
established annually to drive strong safety performance. Progress toward these milestones and criteria are measured and reported. HSE audits are conducted on business functions periodically, and improvement actions are established and tracked to
completion. We also have detailed processes in place to address sustainable development in our economic, environmental and social performance. Our processes, related tools and requirements focus on water, biodiversity and climate change, as well as
social and stakeholder issues.    The environmental information contained in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations on pages 61 through 64 under the captions  Environmental  and  Climate Change  is incorporated herein by reference. It includes information on expensed and capitalized environmental costs for 2017 and those expected
for 2018 and 2019.     Website Access to SEC Reports   
 Our internet website address is  www.conocophillips.com . Information contained on our internet website is not part of this report on Form  10-K.     Our Annual Reports on  Form 10-K,  Quarterly Reports on  Form 10-Q,  Current Reports on  Form 8-K  and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Alternatively, you may access these reports at the
SEC s website at  www.sec.gov .  
      19  

Table of Contents  

     Item 1A. RISK FACTORS   
 You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form  10-K.  Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock.  
   Our operating results, our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets are exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices.
     Prices for crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, natural gas liquids and LNG can fluctuate widely. Globally, prices for crude oil, bitumen, natural
gas, natural gas liquids and LNG have experienced significant declines from their historic levels during 2013 and 2014, with excess of supply relative to global demand leading to global inventory builds. Total average annual prices in 2017 for Brent
crude oil, WTI crude oil, Henry Hub natural gas and our realized natural gas liquids all decreased by at least 30 percent when compared with 2014 despite having improved by at least 18 percent when compared with 2016. Given volatility in
commodity price drivers and the business environment, price trends may not continue or reverse themselves.    Our revenues, operating results and future
rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, natural gas liquids and LNG. The factors influencing these prices are beyond our control. Lower crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, natural gas
liquids and LNG prices may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating income, cash flows and liquidity and on the amount of dividends we elect to declare and pay on our common stock. Lower prices may also limit the amount of reserves
we can produce economically, adversely affecting our reserve replacement ratio and accelerating the reduction in our existing reserve levels as we continue production from upstream fields.  
 Significant reductions in crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, natural gas liquids and LNG prices could also require us to reduce our capital expenditures or
impair the carrying value of our assets. In the past three years, we recognized several impairments, which are described in Note 8 Impairments and the  APLNG  section of Note 5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If commodity prices remain low relative to their historic levels, and as we continue to optimize our investments and exercise capital flexibility, it is reasonably likely we will incur future impairments
to long-lived assets used in operations, investments in nonconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity method and unproved properties. Although it is not reasonably practicable to quantify the impact of any future impairments at this time,
our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result.      Our ability to declare and pay dividends and repurchase shares is subject to
certain considerations.      Dividends are authorized and determined by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion and depend upon a number of
factors, including:      

Cash available for distribution.    

Our results of operations and anticipated future results of operations.    

Our financial condition, especially in relation to the anticipated future capital needs of our properties.    

The level of reserves we establish for future capital expenditures.    

The level of distributions paid by comparable companies.    

Our operating expenses.    

Other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant.      We expect to continue to pay quarterly distributions to
our stockholders; however, we bear all expenses incurred by our operations, and our funds generated by operations, after deducting these expenses, may not be sufficient to cover desired levels of distributions to our stockholders.  
      20  

Table of Contents  

  Additionally, our share repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any specific number of shares. Any
downward revision in our distribution or share repurchase program could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.      We
may need additional capital in the future, and it may not be available on acceptable terms.      We have historically relied primarily upon cash
generated by our operations to fund our operations and strategy, however we have also relied from time to time on access to the debt and equity capital markets for funding. There can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be
available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, although we anticipate we will be able to repay our existing indebtedness when it matures or in accordance with our stated plans, there can be no assurance we will be able to do
so. Our ability to obtain additional financing, or refinance our existing indebtedness when it matures or in accordance with our stated plans, will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance, investor
sentiment and our ability to incur additional debt in compliance with agreements governing our then-outstanding debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations or raise additional capital, our growth could be impeded.  
 In addition, we are regularly evaluated by the major rating agencies based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting
the oil and gas industry generally. For example, due to the significant decline in prices for crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, natural gas liquids and LNG in 2015, and the expectation that these prices could remain depressed, the major ratings
agencies conducted a review of the oil and gas industry and downgraded our debt ratings and those of several companies operating in the industry in 2016. Any downgrade in our credit rating, could increase the cost associated with any additional
indebtedness we incur.      Our business may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults under our contracts with,
third parties with whom we do business.      The operation of our business requires us to engage in transactions with numerous counterparties
operating in a variety of industries, including other companies operating in the oil and gas industry. These counterparties may default on their obligations to us as a result of operational failures or a lack of liquidity, or for other reasons,
including bankruptcy. Market speculation about the credit quality of these counterparties, or their ability to continue performing on their existing obligations, may also exacerbate any operational difficulties or liquidity issues they are
experiencing, particularly as it relates to other companies in the oil and gas industry as a result of the volatility in commodity prices. Any default by any of our counterparties may result in our inability to perform obligations under
agreements we have made with third parties or may otherwise adversely affect our business or results of operations. In addition, our rights against any of our counterparties as a result of a default may not be adequate to compensate us for the
resulting harm caused or may not be enforceable at all in some circumstances.      Unless we successfully add to our existing proved reserves, our
future crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids production will decline, resulting in an adverse impact to our business.      The rate
of production from upstream fields generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration and development activities, or, through engineering studies, optimize production performance or identify
additional or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline materially as we produce crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Accordingly, to the extent we are unsuccessful in replacing the crude oil, bitumen, natural
gas and natural gas liquids we produce with good prospects for future production, our business will experience reduced cash flows and results of operations. Any cash conservation efforts we may undertake as a result of commodity price declines may
further limit our ability to replace depleted reserves.  
      21  

Table of Contents  

    The exploration and production of oil and gas is a highly competitive industry.    
 The exploration and production of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids is a highly competitive business. We compete with private, public
and state-owned companies in all facets of the exploration and production business, including to locate and obtain new sources of supply and to produce oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids in an efficient, cost-effective manner. Some of
our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do or may be willing to incur a higher level of risk than we are willing to incur to obtain potential sources of supply. If we are not successful in our competition for new reserves, our
financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.      Any material change in the factors and assumptions underlying our
estimates of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves could impair the quantity and value of those reserves.     Our proved
reserve information included in this annual report has been derived from engineering estimates prepared by our personnel. Reserve estimation is a process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of crude oil,
bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids that cannot be directly measured. As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry-accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may produce different estimates of
reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data. Any significant future price changes could have a material effect on the quantity and present value of our proved reserves. Any material changes in the factors and assumptions
underlying our estimates of these items could result in a material negative impact to the volume of reserves reported or could cause us to incur impairment expenses on property associated with the production of those reserves. Future reserve
revisions could also result from changes in, among other things, governmental regulation. In addition to changes in the quantity and value of our proved reserves, the amount of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids that can be
obtained from any proved reserve may ultimately be different from those estimated prior to extraction.      We expect to continue to incur substantial
capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. Likewise, future environmental laws and regulations, such as limitations on greenhouse gas emissions, may impact or
limit our current business plans and reduce demand for our products.      Our businesses are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the
protection of the environment. These laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things:      

The discharge of pollutants into the environment.    

Emissions into the atmosphere, such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, mercury and greenhouse gas emissions.    

Carbon taxes.    

The handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes.    

The dismantlement, abandonment and restoration of our properties and facilities at the end of their useful lives.    

Exploration and production activities in certain areas, such as offshore environments, arctic fields, oil sands reservoirs and tight oil plays.    
 We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and
regulations. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially
adversely affected.    Although our business operations are designed and operated to accommodate expected climatic conditions, to the extent there are
significant changes in the Earth s climate, such as more severe or frequent weather  
      22  

Table of Contents  

conditions in the markets we serve or the areas where our assets reside, we could incur increased expenses, our operations could be materially impacted, and demand for our products could fall.
Demand for our products may also be adversely affected by conservation plans and efforts undertaken in response to global climate change, including plans developed in connection with the Paris climate conference in December 2015. Many governments
also provide, or may in the future provide, tax advantages and other subsidies to support the use and development of alternative energy technologies. Our operations and the demand for our products could be materially impacted by the development and
adoption of these technologies.      Domestic and worldwide political and economic developments could damage our operations and materially reduce our
profitability and cash flows.      Actions of the U.S., state, local and foreign governments, through tax and other legislation, executive order and
commercial restrictions, including changes resulting from the implementation and interpretation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, could reduce our operating profitability both in the United States and abroad. In certain locations, governments have
imposed or proposed restrictions on our operations; special taxes or tax assessments; and payment transparency regulations that could require us to disclose competitively sensitive information or might cause us to violate  non-disclosure  laws of other countries. U.S. federal, state and local legislative and regulatory agencies  initiatives regarding the hydraulic fracturing process could result in operating restrictions or delays
in the completion of our oil and gas wells.    The U.S. government can also prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. These
restrictions and those of foreign governments have in the past limited our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries. Actions by host governments have affected operations significantly in the past, such as the
expropriation of our oil assets by the Venezuelan government, and may continue to do so in the future. Changes in domestic and international regulations may affect our ability to obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for drilling and
development of wells in various locations.    Local political and economic factors in international markets could have a material adverse effect on us.
Approximately 58 percent of our hydrocarbon production was derived from production outside the United States in 2017, and 45 percent of our proved reserves, as of December 31, 2017, was located outside the United States. We are
subject to risks associated with operations in international markets, including changes in foreign governmental policies relating to crude oil, natural gas, bitumen, natural gas liquids or LNG pricing and taxation, other political, economic or
diplomatic developments, changing political conditions and international monetary fluctuations. In particular, some countries where we operate lack well-developed legal systems or have not adopted clear legal and regulatory frameworks for oil and
gas exploration and production. This lack of legal certainty exposes our operations to increased risks, including increased difficulty in enforcing our agreements in those jurisdictions and increased risks of adverse actions by local government
authorities, such as expropriations.      Changes in governmental regulations may impose price controls and limitations on production of crude oil,
bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids.      Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulations. From time to time, regulatory
agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids wells below actual production capacity. Because legal requirements are frequently changed
and subject to interpretation, we cannot predict the effect of these requirements.      Our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage
risk.      We conduct many of our operations through joint ventures in which we may share control with our joint venture partners. There is a risk our
joint venture participants may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of the joint venture or us, or our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and
we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. Failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations.  
      23  

Table of Contents  

    We may not be able to successfully complete any disposition we elect to pursue.    
 From time to time, we may seek to divest portions of our business or investments that are not important to our ongoing strategic objectives. Any dispositions
we undertake may involve numerous risks and uncertainties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In particular, we may not be able to successfully complete any disposition on a timeline or on terms
acceptable to us, if at all, whether due to market conditions, regulatory challenges or other concerns. In addition, the reinvestment of capital from disposition proceeds may not ultimately yield investment returns in line with our internal or
external expectations. Any dispositions we pursue may also result in disruption to other parts of our business, including through the diversion of resources and management attention from our ongoing business and other strategic matters, or through
the disruption of relationships with our employees and key vendors. Further, in connection with any disposition, we may enter into transition services agreements or undertake indemnity or other obligations that may result in additional expenses for
us.    As part of our disposition strategy, on May 17, 2017, we completed the sale of our 50 percent nonoperated interest in the FCCL Partnership,
as well as the majority of our western Canada gas assets to Cenovus Energy. Consideration for the transaction included 208 million Cenovus Energy common shares. We may not be able to liquidate the shares issued to us by Cenovus Energy at prices
we deem acceptable, or at all.      We do not insure against all potential losses; therefore, we could be harmed by unexpected liabilities and increased
costs.      We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from operating risks. As such, our insurance
coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover us against potential losses arising from such risks. Uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating risks could reduce the funds available to us for capital, exploration and investment spending
and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.      Our operations present hazards
and risks that require significant and continuous oversight.      The scope and nature of our operations present a variety of significant hazards and
risks, including operational hazards and risks such as explosions, fires, crude oil spills, severe weather, geological events, labor disputes, terrorist attacks, sabotage, civil unrest or cyber attacks. Our operations may also be adversely affected
by unavailability, interruptions or accidents involving services or infrastructure required to develop, produce, process or transport our production, such as contract labor, drilling rigs, pipelines, railcars, tankers, barges or other
infrastructure. Our operations are subject to the additional hazards of pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. Activities in deepwater areas may pose incrementally greater risks because of complex subsurface
conditions such as higher reservoir pressures, water depths and metocean conditions. All such hazards could result in loss of human life, significant property and equipment damage, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, substantial
losses to us and damage to our reputation. Further, our business and operations may be disrupted if we do not respond, or are perceived not to respond, in an appropriate manner to any of these hazards and risks or any other major crisis or if we are
unable to efficiently restore or replace affected operational components and capacity.    Our technologies, systems and networks may be subject to
cybersecurity breaches. Although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation. If our systems for protecting against
cybersecurity risks prove to be insufficient, we could be adversely affected by having our business systems compromised, our proprietary information altered, lost or stolen, or our business operations disrupted. As cyber attacks continue to evolve,
we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information systems and related infrastructure security vulnerabilities.  
      24  

Table of Contents  

     Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   
 None.      

Item 3.  
  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS       The following is a description of reportable legal proceedings, including those
involving governmental authorities under federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment for this reporting period. The following proceedings include those matters that arose during the fourth quarter of
2017, as well as matters previously reported in our 2016 Form  10-K  and our  first-, second-  and third-quarter 2017 Form  10-Qs 
that were not resolved prior to the fourth quarter of 2017. Material developments to the previously reported matters have been included in the descriptions below. While it is not possible to accurately predict the final outcome of these pending
proceedings, if any one or more of such proceedings were to be decided adversely to ConocoPhillips, we expect there would be no material effect on our consolidated financial position. Nevertheless, such proceedings are reported pursuant to SEC
regulations.    On April 30, 2012, the separation of our downstream business was completed, creating two independent energy companies: ConocoPhillips
and Phillips 66. In connection with the separation, we entered into an Indemnification and Release Agreement, which provides for cross-indemnities between Phillips 66 and us and established procedures for handling claims subject to indemnification
and related matters, such as legal proceedings. We have included matters where we remain or have subsequently become a party to a proceeding relating to Phillips 66, in accordance with SEC regulations. We do not expect any of those matters to result
in a net claim against us.      Matters Previously Reported Phillips 66    
 In May 2012, the Illinois Attorney General s office filed and notified ConocoPhillips of a complaint with respect to operations at the Phillips 66 Wood
River Refinery alleging violations of the Illinois groundwater standards and a third-party s hazardous waste permit. The complaint seeks as relief remediation of area groundwater; compliance with the hazardous waste permit; enhanced pipeline
and tank integrity measures; additional spill reporting; and fines and penalties exceeding $100,000.    In October 2016, after Phillips 66 received a Notice
of Intent to Sue from the Sierra Club, Phillips 66 entered into a voluntary settlement with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency for alleged violations of wastewater requirements at the Wood River Refinery. The settlement involves
certain capital projects and payment of $125,000. After the settlement was filed with the Court for final approval, the Sierra Club sought and was granted approval to intervene in the case. The settlement and a first modification have been
entered by the Court, but the Sierra Club still seeks to reopen and challenge the settlement.      

Item 4.  
  MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES       Not applicable.  
      25  

Table of Contents  

     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   

Name  
    
  Position Held  
    
  Age*  

Janet L. Carrig  
    
   Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary  

60 

Ellen R. DeSanctis  
    
   Vice President, Investor Relations and Communications  

61 

Matt J. Fox  
    
   Executive Vice President, Strategy, Exploration and Technology  

57 

Alan J. Hirshberg  
    
   Executive Vice President, Production, Drilling and Projects  

56 

Ryan M. Lance  
    
   Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer  

55 

Andrew D. Lundquist  
    
   Senior Vice President, Government Affairs  

57 

James D. McMorran  
    
   Vice President, Human Resources, Real Estate and Facilities Services  

60 

Glenda M. Schwarz  
    
   Vice President and Controller  

52 

Don E. Wallette, Jr.  
    
   Executive Vice President, Finance, Commercial and Chief Financial Officer  

59 
    
        *On
February 15, 2018.     There are no family relationships among any of the officers named above. Each officer of the company is elected by the Board
of Directors at its first meeting after the Annual Meeting of Stockholders and thereafter as appropriate. Each officer of the company holds office from the date of election until the first meeting of the directors held after the next Annual Meeting
of Stockholders or until a successor is elected. The date of the next annual meeting is May 15, 2018. Set forth below is information about the executive officers.  
  Janet L. Carrig  was appointed Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in 2007. On February 14, 2018, Ms. Carrig announced
her decision to retire as Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Ms. Carrig plans to remain in her current position until her successor is appointed.  
  Ellen R. DeSanctis  was appointed Vice President, Investor Relations and Communications in May 2012. She was previously employed by Petrohawk Energy
Corp. and served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications since 2010.     Matt J. Fox  was appointed as Executive Vice President, Strategy,
Exploration and Technology in April 2016. He previously served as the Executive Vice President, Exploration and Production, from 2012 to 2016. Prior to that, he was employed by Nexen, Inc. and served as Executive Vice President, International since
2010.     Alan J. Hirshberg  was appointed Executive Vice President, Production, Drilling and Projects in April 2016. He previously served as Executive
Vice President, Technology and Projects, from 2012 to 2016. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Planning and Strategy since 2010.     Ryan
M. Lance  was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer in May 2012, having previously served as Senior Vice President, Exploration and Production International since May 2009.  
  Andrew D. Lundquist  was appointed Senior Vice President, Government Affairs in 2013. Prior to that, he served as managing partner of BlueWater
Strategies LLC, since 2002.     James D. McMorran  was appointed Vice President, Human Resources, Real Estate and Facilities Services in August 2015.
Prior to that, he served as Manager, Compensation and Benefits, since 2004.     Glenda M. Schwarz  was appointed Vice President and Controller in 2009.
    Don E. Wallette, Jr.  was appointed Executive Vice President, Finance, Commercial and Chief Financial Officer in April 2016. He previously served
as Executive Vice President, Commercial, Business Development and Corporate Planning from 2012 to 2016. Prior to that, he served as President, Asia Pacific since 2010 and President, Russia/Caspian from 2006 to 2010.  
      26  

Table of Contents  

     PART II   

Item 5.  
  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES     
  Quarterly Common Stock Prices and Cash Dividends Per Share   
 ConocoPhillips  common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, under the symbol  COP.   

*In  
  determining the number of stockholders, we consider clearing agencies and security position listings as one stockholder for each agency listing.     
 The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and may be affected by various factors, including our future earnings,
financial condition, capital requirements, levels of indebtedness, credit ratings and other considerations our Board of Directors deems relevant. Our Board of Directors has adopted a quarterly dividend declaration policy providing that the
declaration of any dividends will be determined quarterly by the Board of Directors taking into account such factors as our business model, prevailing business conditions and our financial results and capital requirements, without a predetermined
annual net income payout ratio.    On February 4, 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a reduction in the quarterly dividend to
$0.25 per share, compared with the previous quarterly dividend of $0.74 per share.    On January 31, 2017, we announced that our Board of Directors
approved an increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.265 per share, compared with the previous quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share.    On February 1,
2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.285 per share, compared with the previous quarterly dividend of $0.265 per share.  
      27  

Table of Contents  

   Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
   
    *There were no repurchases of common stock from company employees in connection with the
company s broad-based employee incentive plans.     On November 10, 2016, we announced plans to purchase up to $3 billion of our common
stock through 2019. On March 29, 2017, we announced plans to double our share repurchase program to $6 billion of common stock through 2019, with $3 billion allocated and purchased in 2017, and the remainder allocated evenly to 2018
and 2019. On February 1, 2018, we announced the acceleration of our previously stated 2018 share repurchases from $1.5 billion to $2.0 billion, with the remaining balance to be repurchased in 2019. Acquisitions for the share
repurchase program are made at management s discretion, at prevailing prices, subject to market conditions and other factors. Repurchases may be increased, decreased or discontinued at any time without prior notice. Shares of stock repurchased
under the plan are held as treasury shares.    In addition to our previously announced share repurchase program above, we are currently planning to purchase
up to an additional $1.5 billion of our common stock through 2020. Whether we undertake these additional repurchases is ultimately subject to numerous considerations, including Board authorization, market conditions and other factors. See Risk
Factors  Our ability to declare and pay dividends and repurchase shares is subject to certain considerations.      Stock Performance Graph
    The following graph shows the cumulative total shareholder return (TSR) for ConocoPhillips  common stock in each of the five years from
December 31, 2012, to December 31, 2017. The graph also compares the cumulative total returns for the same five-year period with the S P 500 Index and our performance peer group consisting of BP, Chevron, ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch Shell,
Total, Anadarko, Apache, Marathon Oil Corporation, Devon and Occidental, weighted according to the respective peer s stock market capitalization at the beginning of each annual period. The comparison assumes $100 was invested on
December 31, 2012, in ConocoPhillips stock, the S P 500 Index and ConocoPhillips  peer group and assumes that all dividends were reinvested.      

28  

Table of Contents  

     Item 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
   
   Net income (loss) and net income (loss) attributable to ConocoPhillips from 2013 to 2014 includes income from discontinued
operations as a result of the sale of our interest in Kashagan, and the sales of our Algeria and Nigeria businesses. These factors impact the comparability of this information.  
 See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a
discussion of factors that will enhance an understanding of this data.  
      29  

Table of Contents  

Item 7.  
  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS     
  Management s Discussion and Analysis is the company s analysis of its financial performance and of significant trends that may affect future
performance. It should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes, and supplemental oil and gas disclosures included elsewhere in this report. It contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements
relating to the company s plans, strategies, objectives, expectations and intentions that are made pursuant to the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words  anticipate, 
 estimate,   believe,   budget,   continue,   could,   intend,   may,   plan,   potential,   predict,   seek,   should, 
 will,   would,   expect,   objective,   projection,   forecast,   goal,   guidance,   outlook,   effort,   target  and similar expressions
identify forward-looking statements. The company does not undertake to update, revise or correct any of the forward-looking information unless required to do so under the federal securities laws. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking
statements should be read in conjunction with the company s disclosures under the heading:  CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE  SAFE HARBOR  PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995, 
beginning on page 70.      The terms  earnings  and  loss  as used in Management s Discussion and Analysis refer to net income
(loss) attributable to ConocoPhillips.      BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW   
 ConocoPhillips is the world s largest independent exploration and production (E P) company, based on proved reserves and production of liquids and
natural gas. Headquartered in Houston, Texas, we have operations and activities in 17 countries. Our diverse portfolio primarily includes resource-rich North American tight oil and oil sands assets in Canada; lower-risk conventional assets in North
America, Europe, Asia and Australia; several liquefied natural gas (LNG) developments; and an inventory of global conventional and unconventional exploration prospects. At December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 11,400 people worldwide and
had total assets of $73 billion. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  COP.      Overview   
 The global oil market is rebalancing. Crude oil prices improved in 2017, particularly during the latter half of the year; however, we believe prices are
likely to remain cyclical in the future. In 2016, we updated our value proposition to position the company for long-term success, given our expectations. Our value proposition principles, namely to maintain financial strength, grow our distributions
and pursue disciplined growth, remain essentially unchanged. However, we took steps to improve our competitiveness and resilience by establishing clear priorities for cash allocation.  
 In order, the cash allocation priorities are: invest capital at a level that maintains flat production volumes and pays our existing dividend; grow our
existing dividend; reduce debt to a level we believe is sufficient to maintain a strong investment grade rating through price cycles; repurchase shares to provide value to our shareholders; and strategically invest capital to grow our cash from
operations.    In 2017, we took significant actions that allowed us to make substantial progress on our stated priorities. We believe that our commitment to
our value proposition, as evidenced by the results discussed below, position the company for success in an environment of price uncertainty and ongoing volatility.  
      30  

Table of Contents  

   Key Operating and Financial Summary   
 Significant items during 2017 included the following:      

Achieved full-year production excluding Libya of 1,356 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (MBOED); underlying production excluding the impact of closed and planned dispositions grew 19 percent on a
production per debt-adjusted share basis and 3 percent overall.    

Cash provided by operating activities exceeded capital expenditures by $2.5 billion, and exceeded capital expenditures and dividends by $1.2 billion.    

Paid down $7.6 billion of balance sheet debt, ending the year with debt of $19.7 billion.    

Generated approximately $16 billion from asset dispositions.    

Announced  year-end  proved reserves of 5.0 billion barrels of oil equivalent (BOE).    

Repurchased $3 billion of shares; reduced ending share count by 5 percent year over year.    

Reached settlement on Ecuador arbitration for $337 million.      Operationally, we continue to focus on
safely executing our capital program and remaining attentive to our costs. Production excluding Libya was 1,356 MBOED in 2017 compared with 1,567 MBOED in 2016. Our underlying production, which excludes the full-year impact of closed and planned
dispositions of 191 MBOED in 2017 and 434 MBOED in 2016 and Libya, increased 32 MBOED, or 3 percent year over year. Underlying production on a per debt-adjusted share basis grew by 19 percent compared to 2016. Production per debt-adjusted
share is calculated on an underlying production basis using ending period debt divided by ending share price plus ending shares outstanding. We believe production per debt-adjusted share is useful to investors as it provides a consistent view of
production on a total equity basis by converting debt to equity and allows for comparisons across peer companies.    We accomplished several strategic
milestones in 2017, including progressing our efforts to optimize our portfolio. Our asset dispositions are in line with our strategy, announced in November 2016, to focus on low
  cost-of-supply   projects in our portfolio that strategically fit our development plans. We generated approximately $16 billion in total consideration from the
disposition of certain noncore assets which were directed to our stated cash priorities and general corporate purposes. For additional information on our dispositions, see Note 4 Assets Held for Sale, Sold or Acquired in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.    In 2017, we reduced debt by $7.6 billion to $19.7 billion at
 year-end  and repurchased 64 million shares of our common stock totaling $3 billion. Consistent with our commitment to grow our distributions, in the first quarter of 2017, we increased our quarterly
dividend by 6 percent to $0.265 per share. We are managing our business to optimize and deliver on our value propositions and cash priorities in a demanding business environment.  
  Business Environment     After elevated levels of
volatility in 2016, global market fundamentals trended towards a firmer balance in 2017. Crude oil prices improved in 2017 as a result of slower growth in global oil production, strong global oil demand and lower global inventory levels.  
 The energy industry has periodically experienced this type of extreme volatility due to fluctuating   supply-and-demand   conditions. Commodity prices are the most significant factor impacting our profitability and related reinvestment of operating cash flows into our business. Our strategy is to create value
through price cycles by delivering on the disciplined financial and operational priorities that underpin our value proposition.  
      31  

Table of Contents  

    Priorities    
 The priorities we believe will drive our success through the price cycles include:      

Focus on financial returns . This is a core aspect of our value proposition. Our goal is to achieve strong financial returns by controlling our costs, exercising capital discipline and continually optimizing our
portfolio.        

Control costs and expenses . Controlling operating and overhead costs, without compromising safety and environmental stewardship, is a high priority. We monitor these costs using various methodologies that are
reported to senior management monthly, on both an absolute-dollar basis and a  per-unit  basis. Managing operating and overhead costs is critical to maintaining a competitive position in our industry,
particularly in a low commodity price environment. The ability to control our operating and overhead costs impacts our ability to deliver strong cash from operations. In 2017, including asset disposition impacts, we reduced our production and
operating expenses by 9 percent as compared to 2016.        

Maintain capital discipline . We participate in a commodity price-driven and capital-intensive industry, with varying lead times from when an investment decision is made to the time an asset is operational and
generates cash flow. As a result, we must invest significant capital dollars to explore for new oil and gas fields, develop newly discovered fields, maintain existing fields, and construct pipelines and LNG facilities. Given our view of greater
price volatility, we have shifted our capital allocation to focus on shorter cycle time, low   cost-of-supply,   unconventional programs in our resource base. Our cash
allocation priorities call for the investment of sufficient capital to maintain production and pay the existing dividend. Additional allocations of capital toward growth projects will be dependent on satisfaction of other financial priorities. We
use a disciplined approach, focused on value maximization and cash flow expansion, to set our capital plans.      In November
2017, we announced a 2018 capital budget of $5.5 billion, including $3.5 billion of sustaining capital and $2 billion in accretive, short-cycle unconventional programs, future major projects and exploration activities.  

Optimize our portfolio . We continue to optimize our asset portfolio by focusing on low   cost-of-supply   assets which strategically fit
our development plans. In 2017, we generated approximately $16 billion in total consideration from dispositions of certain noncore assets in our portfolio, including our 50 percent nonoperated interest in the FCCL Partnership, as well as
the majority of our western Canada gas assets; our interests in the San Juan Basin; and our interest in the Panhandle assets. We will continue to evaluate our assets to determine whether they fit our strategic direction and will optimize the
portfolio as necessary, directing our capital investments to areas that align with our objectives.        

Maintain financial strength . We believe financial strength is critical in a cyclical business such as ours. In 2017, using proceeds from asset dispositions and cash flow from operations, we reduced our debt by
$7.6 billion to $19.7 billion at  year-end.  On a longer-term basis, in November 2017, we announced our plan to reduce debt to $15 billion by  year-end  2019,
a significant acceleration from the previously stated expectation of $20 billion in the same timeframe. We expect to retire outstanding debt as it matures and exercise flexibility in paying down our other debt instruments.    

Return capital to shareholders . In 2017, we paid dividends on our common stock of $1.3 billion and repurchased $3 billion of our common stock. We believe in delivering value to our shareholders through
the price cycles. As a result, we set a priority to increase our dividend rate annually and purchase up to approximately $3 billion of our common stock evenly from 2018 through 2019.    
      32  

Table of Contents  

On February 1, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.285 per share, compared with the previous quarterly dividend of $0.265 per share. Additionally, we announced the
acceleration of our previously stated 2018 share repurchases from $1.5 billion to $2.0 billion.      In addition to
our previously announced share repurchase program above, we are currently planning to purchase up to an additional $1.5 billion of our common stock through 2020. Whether we undertake these additional repurchases is ultimately subject to numerous
considerations, including Board authorization, market conditions and other factors. See Risk Factors  Our ability to declare and pay dividends and repurchase shares is subject to certain considerations.   

Maintain a relentless focus on safety and environmental stewardship . Safety and environmental stewardship, including the operating integrity of our assets, remain our highest priorities, and we are committed to
protecting the health and safety of everyone who has a role in our operations and the communities in which we operate. We strive to conduct our business with respect and care for both the local and global environment and systematically manage risk
to drive sustainable business growth. Our sustainability efforts in 2017 focused on implementing our action plans for climate change, biodiversity, water and human rights, as well as revamping public reporting to be more informative, searchable and
responsive to common questions. To demonstrate our commitment to sustainability and environmental stewardship, on November 2017, we announced our intention to target a 5 to 15 percent reduction in our greenhouse gas emission intensity by 2030.
We are committed to building a learning organization using human performance principles as we relentlessly pursue improved Health, Safety and Environment and operational performance.    

Add to our proved reserve base . We primarily add to our proved reserve base in two ways:        

Successful exploration, exploitation and development of new and existing fields.    

Application of new technologies and processes to improve recovery from existing fields.    
 Proved reserve estimates require economic production based on historical  12-month,    first-of-month,   average prices and current costs. Therefore, our proved reserves generally increase as prices rise and decrease as prices decline. Asset dispositions in 2017
reduced our reported  year-end  proved reserves, but were partly offset by increased commodity prices. In 2017, our reserve replacement, which included a reduction of 1.9 billion BOE from dispositions, was
negative 168 percent. Our organic reserve replacement, which excludes the impact of sales and purchases, was 200 percent in 2017. In the five years ended December 31, 2017, our reserve replacement was negative 24 percent,
reflecting the impact of asset dispositions and lower prices.    Access to additional resources may become increasingly difficult as
commodity prices can make projects uneconomic or unattractive. In addition, prohibition of direct investment in some nations, national fiscal terms, political instability, competition from national oil companies, and lack of access to high-potential
areas due to environmental or other regulation may negatively impact our ability to increase our reserve base. As such, the timing and level at which we add to our reserve base may, or may not, allow us to replace our production over subsequent
years. Additionally, as we continue cash conservation efforts, our reserve replacement efforts could be delayed thus limiting our ability to replace depleted reserves.     

Apply technical capability . We leverage our knowledge and technology to create value and safely deliver on our plans. Technical strength is part of our heritage, and we are evolving our technical approach to
optimally apply best practices. Companywide, we continue to evaluate potential solutions to leverage knowledge of technological successes across our operations. Such innovations enable us to economically convert additional resources to reserves,
achieve greater operating efficiencies and reduce our environmental impact.        

Develop and retain a talented work force . We strive to attract, train, develop and retain individuals with the knowledge and skills to implement our business strategy and who support our values and ethics. To
this end, we offer university internships across multiple disciplines to attract the best talent and, as needed, recruit experienced hires to maintain a broad range of skills and experience. We promote continued learning, development and technical
training through structured development programs designed to enhance the technical and functional skills of our employees.    
      33  

Table of Contents  

    Other Factors Affecting Profitability    
 Other significant factors that can affect our profitability include:      

Energy commodity prices . Our earnings and operating cash flows generally correlate with industry price levels for crude oil and natural gas. Industry price levels are subject to factors external to the company
and over which we have no control, including but not limited to global economic health, supply disruptions or fears thereof caused by civil unrest or military conflicts, actions taken by Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC),
environmental laws, tax regulations, governmental policies and weather-related disruptions. The following graph depicts the average benchmark prices for West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil, Dated Brent crude oil and U.S. Henry Hub natural gas:

Brent crude oil prices averaged $61.39 per barrel in the fourth quarter of 2017, an increase of
24 percent compared with $49.46 per barrel in the fourth quarter of 2016. Similarly, WTI crude oil prices increased 13 percent from $49.18 per barrel in the fourth quarter of 2016 to $55.35 per barrel in the same period of 2017. Global oil
prices began to improve at the end of 2016 and continued trending upward in response to stronger global demand and slower production growth.  
 Henry Hub natural gas prices averaged $2.93 per million British thermal units (MMBTU) in the fourth quarter of 2017, a decrease of
2 percent compared with $2.98 per MMBTU in the fourth quarter of 2016. However, on an annual basis, Henry Hub natural gas prices improved 26 percent from $2.46 per MMBTU in 2016, to $3.11 per MMBTU in 2017. The price improvement was
as a result of growth in domestic demand, increased exports and lower U.S. inventories.    Our realized natural gas liquids prices averaged
$32.79 per barrel in the fourth quarter of 2017, an increase of 50 percent compared with $21.82 per barrel in the same quarter of 2016.  
 Improving global crude oil prices resulted in the Western Canada Select benchmark price experiencing a 33 percent increase, from $29.36
per barrel in 2016 to $38.92 per barrel in 2017. The WCS benchmark price improvement, coupled with changes in costs per barrel resulting from the disposition of our interest in the FCCL Partnership, caused our realized bitumen price to increase
relative to 2016. Our realized bitumen price was $22.66 per barrel in 2017, an increase of 48 percent compared with $15.27 per barrel in the same period of 2016.  
      34  

Table of Contents  

  Our worldwide annual average realized price was $46.10 per barrel of oil equivalent (BOE) in the
fourth quarter of 2017, an increase of 40 percent compared with $32.93 per BOE in the fourth quarter of 2016. Similarly, our worldwide annual average realized price was $39.19 per BOE in 2017, an increase of 38 percent compared with $28.35
per BOE in 2016, reflecting higher average realized prices across all commodities.    North America s energy landscape has been
transformed from resource scarcity to an abundance of supply. In recent years, the use of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling in tight oil formations has led to increased industry actual and forecasted crude oil and natural gas production
in the United States. Although providing significant short- and long-term growth opportunities for our company, the increased abundance of crude oil and natural gas due to development of tight oil plays could also have adverse financial implications
to us, including: an extended period of low commodity prices; production curtailments; delay of plans to develop areas such as unconventional fields or Alaska North Slope natural gas fields; and underutilization of LNG regasification facilities.
Should one or more of these events occur, our revenues would be reduced and additional asset impairments might be possible.      

Impairments . As mentioned earlier, we participate in a capital-intensive industry. At times, our properties, plants and equipment and investments become impaired when, for example, commodity prices decline
significantly for long periods of time, our reserve estimates are revised downward, or a decision to dispose of an asset leads to a write-down to its fair value. We may also invest large amounts of money in exploration which, if exploratory drilling
proves unsuccessful, could lead to a material impairment of leasehold values. In 2017, we recorded  before-tax  impairments of $6,601 million for proved properties and $136 million for unproved
properties. As we optimize our assets in the future, it is reasonably possible we may incur future losses upon sale or impairment charges to long-lived assets used in operations, investments in nonconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity
method, and unproved properties. For additional information on our impairments in 2017, 2016 and 2015, see Note 8 Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

Effective tax rate . Our operations are located in countries with different tax rates and fiscal structures. Accordingly, even in a stable commodity price and fiscal/regulatory environment, our overall effective
tax rate can vary significantly between periods based on the  mix  of  before-tax  earnings within our global operations. Recent changes in the U.S. corporate income tax law, further discussed below,
additionally impacted our effective tax rate in 2017.        

Fiscal and regulatory environment.  Our operations can be affected by changing economic, regulatory and political environments in the various countries in which we operate, including the United States. Civil
unrest or strained relationships with governments may impact our operations or investments. These changing environments have generally negatively impacted our results of operations, and further changes to government fiscal take could have a negative
impact on future operations. Our assets in Venezuela were expropriated in 2007. Our production operations in Libya and related oil exports were suspended or significantly curtailed from July 2013 to October 2016 due to the closure of the Es Sider
crude oil export terminal, and they were also suspended in 2011 during Libya s period of civil unrest. In 2016, the United Kingdom government enacted tax legislation which reduced our U.K. corporate tax rate by 10 percent.
     On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( Tax Legislation ) was enacted, significantly revising the
U.S. corporate income tax law by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a  one-time  deemed
repatriation tax on untaxed accumulated foreign earnings. We recognized a provisional, noncash tax benefit of $852 million, which is included as a component of our 2017 income tax expense, primarily related to the revaluation of deferred taxes
at the lower 21 percent federal statutory rate. We did not incur nor expect to incur a tax cost related to the  one-time  repatriation of accumulated foreign earnings. While we anticipate the Tax
Legislation will provide a positive impact  
      35  

Table of Contents  

to our U.S. operations in the future primarily because of the reduced U.S. federal statutory rate, we do not expect to realize cash tax benefits from the Tax Legislation until we move into a U.S.
tax paying position. The ultimate impact of the Tax Legislation may differ from our current expectations, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations and assumptions the company has made or additional regulatory or accounting guidance
that may be issued with respect to the Tax Legislation. For additional information, see Note 18 Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 Our management carefully considers the fiscal and regulatory environment when evaluating projects or determining the levels and locations of
our activity.     Outlook     Full-year 2018 production is
expected to be 1,195 to 1,235 MBOED. This results in approximately 5 percent growth compared with full-year 2017 underlying production, which excludes the impact of closed and planned dispositions of 191 MBOED. First-quarter 2018 production is
expected to be 1,180 to 1,220 MBOED. Production guidance for 2018 excludes Libya.     Operating Segments   
 We manage our operations through six operating segments, which are primarily defined by geographic region: Alaska, Lower 48, Canada, Europe and North Africa,
Asia Pacific and Middle East, and Other International.    Corporate and Other represents costs not directly associated with an operating segment, such as
most interest expense, premiums incurred on the early retirement of debt, corporate overhead, certain technology activities, as well as licensing revenues received.  
 Our key performance indicators, shown in the statistical tables provided at the beginning of the operating segment sections that follow, reflect results from
our operations, including commodity prices and production.  
      36  

Table of Contents  

   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
  Consolidated Results     A summary of the company s
net loss attributable to ConocoPhillips by business segment follows:      
    2017 vs. 2016     Loss
attributable to ConocoPhillips decreased $2,760 million in 2017. The decrease was mainly due to:      

Higher commodity prices.    

Lower depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD A) expense, mainly due to lower   unit-of-production   rates from reserve revisions and
disposition impacts.    

Higher gains on dispositions, primarily due to a $1.6 billion  after-tax  gain in 2017 on the sale of certain Canadian assets.    

Recognition of deferred tax benefits totaling $996 million, primarily related to the disposition of certain Canadian assets.    

Recognition of deferred tax benefits totaling $852 million related to the Tax Legislation enacted on December 22, 2017.    

Improved equity earnings, mainly due to higher realized prices, lower DD A from asset disposition impacts, and the absence of a 2016 deferred tax charge of $174 million resulting from the change of the tax
functional currency for APLNG to the U.S. dollar. These increases were partly offset by lower volumes from the disposition of our interest in the FCCL Partnership.    

Lower exploration expenses mainly due to reduced leasehold impairment expense, dry hole costs and other exploration expenses.    

A $337 million award from an arbitration settlement with The Republic of Ecuador.    

Lower production and operating expenses, primarily due to asset disposition impacts.    

Lower net interest expense, primarily due to impacts from the fair market value method of apportioning interest expense in the United States and reduced debt.    
 The reduction in loss was partly offset by:      

Higher proved property and equity investment impairments, including a combined $2.5 billion  after-tax  impairment related to the sale of our interests in the San Juan Basin
and the ongoing marketing of the Barnett, as well as a $2.4 billion before- and  after-tax  impairment of our equity investment in APLNG.    

Lower volumes primarily due to asset dispositions in our Lower 48, Asia Pacific and Middle East, and Canada segments, as well as normal field decline.    

A $238 million  after-tax  charge associated with our early retirements of debt in 2017.    
      37  

Table of Contents  

   2016 vs. 2015   
 Loss attributable to ConocoPhillips decreased $813 million in 2016. The decrease was mainly due to:  

Lower exploration expenses. Exploration expenses decreased mainly due to reduced leasehold impairment expense and dry hole costs.    

Lower proved property and equity investment impairments, including the absence of a $1.5 billion before- and  after-tax  impairment of our equity investment in APLNG in 2015.

Lower production and operating expenses.    

A $161 million net deferred tax benefit resulting from a reduction in the U.K. tax rate, which was enacted in September 2016 and effective January 1, 2016.    

The absence of a $129 million deferred tax charge from increased corporate tax rates in Canada in 2015.    
 The decrease in loss was partly offset by:      

Lower commodity prices.    

The absence of a $555 million net deferred tax benefit resulting from a change in the U.K. tax rate in 2015.    

Lower crude oil, natural gas liquids, and gas sales volumes.    

Lower equity earnings, primarily driven by increased DD A expense, as well as a 2016 deferred tax charge of $174 million resulting from the change of the tax functional currency for APLNG to U.S. dollar.

Higher interest and debt expense.    

Lower gain on dispositions, mainly due to the absence of a $368 million  after-tax  gain on the disposition of certain properties in our Lower 48 segment.    
  Income Statement Analysis      2017 vs. 2016   
  Sales and other operating revenues  increased 23 percent in 2017, mainly due to higher realized prices across all commodities, partly offset by
lower sales volumes, primarily in our Lower 48, Asia Pacific and Middle East, and Canada segments as a result of dispositions.     Equity in earnings of
affiliates  increased $720 million in 2017. The increase in equity earnings was primarily due to higher realized commodity prices at QG3, APLNG and FCCL; the absence of a 2016 deferred tax charge of $174 million resulting from a tax
functional currency change; and reduced costs mainly from the disposition of our interest in the FCCL Partnership. The increase in earnings was partly offset by lower volumes as a result of our FCCL disposition.  
  Gain on dispositions  increased 505 percent in 2017. The increase was primarily due to a  before-tax  gain of
$2.1 billion on the sale of our 50 percent nonoperated interest in the FCCL Partnership, as well as the majority of our western Canada gas assets. For additional information on gains on dispositions, see Note 4 Assets Held for Sale,
Sold or Acquired, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     Other income  increased 107 percent in 2017, mainly due to a
$337 million before- and  after-tax  International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) arbitration award from The Republic of Ecuador. The increase was partly offset by the absence of a
gain of $88 million from our receipt of mineral properties and active leases from the Greater Northern Iron Ore Properties Trust and a $76 million  before-tax  damage claim settlement, both in our
Lower 48 segment in 2016.     Purchased commodities  increased 25 percent in 2017, mainly due to higher commodity prices and increased activity.
 
      38  

Table of Contents  

   Selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses  decreased 22 percent in 2017, primarily due
to reduced restructuring expenses, lower headcount and reduced activity.     Exploration expenses  decreased 51 percent in 2017, primarily as a
result of lower leasehold impairment expense, dry hole costs and other exploration expenses.    Leasehold impairment expense was reduced mainly due to the
absence of 2016  before-tax  charges of $203 million for our Gibson and Tiber leaseholds. The expense was further reduced by the absence of  before-tax  charges of
$95 million for our Melmar leasehold and $79 million for various Gulf of Mexico leases after completion of marketing efforts. The reduction was partly offset by a  before-tax  charge of
$51 million for Shenandoah in deepwater Gulf of Mexico and a  before-tax  charge of $38 million for certain mineral assets in our Lower 48 segment, both in 2017.  
 Dry hole costs were reduced primarily due to the absence of 2016  before-tax  charges in deepwater Gulf of Mexico of
$249 million for our Gibson and Tiber wells, and $128 million for our Melmar well. The absence of a $256 million  before-tax  charge in 2016 for two dry holes in Nova Scotia further reduced costs.
The reduction in dry hole costs was partly offset by 2017  before-tax  charges of $288 million for multiple wells in Shenandoah, including wells previously suspended, and $63 million for several wells
in the Powder River Basin.    Other exploration expenses were reduced mainly due to the absence of a $146 million
 before-tax  expense in 2016 related to the cancellation of our final Gulf of Mexico deepwater drillship contract, as well as lower rig stacking costs in Angola. The decrease in expense was partly offset by a
$43 million net  before-tax  charge in 2017 for the settlement of our drilling rig contract in Angola.    For
additional information on leasehold impairments and other exploration expenses, see Note 7 Suspended Wells and Other Exploration Expenses, and Note 8 Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  DD A  decreased 24 percent in 2017, mainly due to lower
  unit-of-production   rates from reserve revisions and disposition impacts in our Canada and Lower 48 segments.  
  Impairments  increased $6,462 million in 2017. For additional information, see Note 8 Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.     Interest and debt expense  decreased 12 percent in 2017, primarily due to impacts from the fair market value method of
apportioning interest expense in the United States and lower interest on debt.     Other expense  included
 before-tax  charges of $302 million in 2017 for premiums on early debt retirements.    See Note 18 Income
Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for information regarding our  income tax benefit  and effective tax rate.     2016 vs.
2015      Sales and other operating revenues  decreased 20 percent in 2016, mainly as a result of lower prices across all commodities.
Additionally, sales and other operating revenues decreased due to lower natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids sales volumes, mainly from dispositions and field decline, partly offset by increased bitumen sales volumes.  
  Equity in earnings of affiliates  decreased 92 percent in 2016. The decrease was primarily due to lower commodity prices, increased DD A mainly
from Trains 1 and 2 being placed in service at APLNG, and a 2016 deferred tax charge of $174 million resulting from a tax functional currency change. The decrease in earnings was partly offset by higher sales volumes at APLNG and FCCL
Partnership, as well as lower production taxes at QG3.  
      39  

Table of Contents  

   Gain on dispositions  decreased 39 percent in 2016. The decrease resulted from the absence of a
$583 million  before-tax  gain in 2015 from the sales of producing properties in East Texas and North Louisiana, South Texas, and a certain pipeline and gathering assets in South Texas, as well as a
$26 million  before-tax  loss on the sale of our interest in the Block B PSC in Indonesia in 2016. The decrease was partly offset by the absence of a $149 million
 before-tax  loss on the disposition of noncore assets in western Canada in the fourth quarter of 2015; and gains on the 2016 dispositions of ConocoPhillips Senegal B.V., the entity that held our interests in
three exploration blocks offshore Senegal, the Alaska Beluga River Unit natural gas field, and noncore assets in the Lower 48. For additional information on gains on dispositions, see Note 4 Assets Held for Sale, Sold or Acquired, in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.     Other income  increased 104 percent in 2016, mainly due to a gain of $88 million from our receipt
of mineral properties and active leases from the Greater Northern Iron Ore Properties Trust in the fourth quarter of 2016. Other income was further increased $76 million  before-tax  for a damage claim
settlement in our Lower 48 segment.     Purchased commodities  decreased 20 percent in 2016, mainly due to lower natural gas prices.  
  Production and operating expenses  decreased 19 percent in 2016, mainly due to lower operating expense activity, reduced headcount and dispositions
of noncore assets, as well as favorable foreign currency impacts.     SG A expenses  decreased 24 percent in 2016, primarily due to reduced
restructuring expenses, lower headcount and reduced activity. The decrease was partly offset by increases from market impacts on certain compensation programs.  
  Exploration expenses  decreased 54 percent in 2016, primarily as a result of lower leasehold impairment expense, dry hole costs, and other
exploration expenses.    Leasehold impairment expense was reduced, mainly due to the absence of 2015  before-tax 
charges of $575 million for our Chukchi Sea leasehold and capitalized interest; $493 million for Angola Blocks 36 and 37; and $447 million for certain Gulf of Mexico leases, partly offset by 2016 impairments of our Melmar, Gibson,
Tiber and other Gulf of Mexico leaseholds.    Dry hole costs were reduced due to the absence of  before-tax  charges
of $1,141 million in 2015, mainly from wells in deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Horn River and Northwest Territories in Canada, Angola Blocks 36 and 37, and Malaysia. The reduction in costs was partly offset by
 before-tax  charges in 2016, including $434 million from several wells in deepwater Gulf of Mexico and $256 million for two wells in Nova Scotia.  
 Other exploration expenses were reduced mainly due to the absence of a $335 million  before-tax  charge in 2015
related to the termination of our Ensco Gulf of Mexico deepwater drillship contract, partly offset by  before-tax  rig cancellation charges and third-party costs of $146 million for our final Gulf of Mexico
deepwater drillship contract in 2016.    For additional information on leasehold impairments and other exploration expenses, see Note 7 Suspended Wells
and Other Exploration Expenses, and Note 8 Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     Impairments  decreased
94 percent in 2016. For additional information, see Note 8 Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     Taxes other than
income taxes  decreased 18 percent in 2016, primarily as a result of lower production taxes, mainly in our Alaska and Lower 48 segments, given reduced commodity prices and the absence of the impact of a transportation cost ruling by the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in the fourth quarter of 2015 in Alaska. Taxes other than income taxes were additionally decreased due to lower property taxes in 2016 in our Alaska and Lower 48 segments.  
      40  

Table of Contents  

   Interest and debt expense  increased 35 percent in 2016, primarily due to lower capitalized interest
on projects and increased debt.    See Note 18 Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for information regarding our  income
tax benefit  and effective tax rate.     Summary Operating Statistics       
          *Thousands of barrels per day.   
      **Millions of cubic feet per day. Represents quantities available for sale and excludes gas equivalent of natural gas liquids
included above.        ***Thousands of barrels of oil equivalent per day.   
 We explore for, produce, transport and market crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas liquids on a worldwide basis. At December 31, 2017,
our operations were producing in the United States, Norway, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Timor-Leste, Indonesia, China, Malaysia, Qatar and Libya.  
 Total production, including Libya, of 1,377 MBOED decreased 12 percent in 2017 compared with 2016. The decrease in total average production primarily
resulted from noncore asset dispositions, including our Canada and San Juan transactions in 2017 and the sale of our interest in the Block B production sharing contract (PSC) in Indonesia in 2016, and normal field decline. The decrease in production
was partly offset by production from major developments, including tight oil plays in the Lower 48; Malikai and the Kebabangan gas field in Malaysia; Surmont in Canada; and APLNG in Australia. Improved drilling and well performance in Alaska, Norway
and China also partly offset the decrease in production. Excluding Libya, our 2017 production was 1,356 MBOED. Adjusted for the impact of closed and planned dispositions of 191 MBOED in 2017 and 434 MBOED in 2016 and Libya, our underlying
production increased 32 MBOED, or 3 percent, compared with 2016.    In 2016, total production, including Libya, of 1,569 MBOED decreased
1 percent compared with 2015. The decrease in total average production primarily resulted from normal field decline and the loss of 72 MBOED  
      41  

Table of Contents  

mainly attributable to the 2015 dispositions of several noncore assets in the Lower 48, western Canada and the sale of our interest in the Polar Lights Company in Russia. The decrease in
production was partly offset by additional production from major developments, including tight oil plays in the Lower 48; APLNG in Australia; the Western North Slope in Alaska; the Kebabangan gas field in Malaysia; and the Greater Ekofisk Area in
Norway. Improved drilling and well performance in Canada, Norway, the Lower 48, and China, as well as lower unplanned downtime in the Lower 48 also partly offset the decrease in production. Assets sold in 2016 produced 27 MBOED and 36 MBOED in 2016
and 2015, respectively.     Alaska       
   The Alaska segment primarily explores for, produces, transports and markets crude oil, natural gas liquids, natural gas and
LNG. In 2017, Alaska contributed 22 percent of our worldwide liquids production and less than 1 percent of our natural gas production.     2017
vs. 2016     Alaska reported earnings of $1,466 million in 2017, compared with earnings of $319 million in 2016. The increase in earnings was
mainly due to an $892 million tax benefit from the revaluation of allocated U.S. deferred taxes at a lower federal statutory rate, in accordance with the newly enacted Tax Legislation. Earnings were additionally improved due to higher crude oil
prices in 2017. The earnings increase was partly offset by a $110 million  after-tax  impairment charge for the associated properties, plants and equipment of our small interest in the Point Thomson unit.
   Average production increased 2 percent in 2017 compared with 2016, as the impact of normal field decline was more than offset by well performance in
the Western North Slope, Greater Prudhoe and Greater Kuparuk areas and lower unplanned downtime.     2016 vs. 2015   
 Alaska reported earnings of $319 million in 2016, compared with earnings of $4 million in 2015. The increase in earnings was mainly due to:  

Lower exploration expenses, primarily due to the absence of the 2015 impairment charge for our Chukchi Sea leasehold and capitalized interest. For additional information on our impairments, see Note 8 Impairments,
in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

Reduced production and operating expense, mainly from lower maintenance costs and general and administrative expenses.    

Enhanced oil recovery tax credits.    
      42  

Table of Contents  

Higher crude oil sales volumes, partly offset by the absence of LNG sales volumes.    

A $57 million  after-tax  impact for the recognition of state deferred tax assets.    

A $36 million  after-tax  gain on the sale of our interest in the Alaska Beluga River Unit natural gas field.    
 The increase in earnings was partly offset by lower crude oil prices and higher DD A expense, mainly due to capital additions.  
 Average production increased 1 percent in 2016 compared with 2015, primarily due to new production from the Alpine CD5 drill site and strong well
performance in the Greater Prudhoe Area. The production increase was partly offset by normal field decline.      Acquisition    
 In January 2018, we entered into an agreement to acquire certain oil and gas assets in Alaska for $400 million, subject to customary adjustments. The
acquisition is subject to regulatory approval. We will have a 100 percent interest in approximately 1.2 million acres of exploration and development lands, including the Willow Discovery.  
  Lower 48       
   The Lower 48 segment consists of operations located in the U.S. Lower 48 states and exploration activities in the Gulf of
Mexico. During 2017, the Lower 48 contributed 30 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 27 percent of our natural gas production.  
  2017 vs. 2016     Lower 48 reported a loss of
$2,371 million  after-tax  in 2017, compared with a loss of $2,257 million  after-tax  in 2016. The increase in loss was primarily due to proved property
impairments in 2017, totaling $2.5 billion  after-tax,  for our interests in the San Juan Basin and the Barnett which were written down to fair value less costs to sell. Lower natural gas, crude oil and
natural gas liquids sales volumes from asset dispositions and normal field decline further increased losses during the year.  
      43  

Table of Contents  

  The increase in losses was partly offset by:  

Lower DD A expense, mainly resulting from a lower   unit-of-production   rate from reserve revisions, disposition impacts and lower
volumes.    

A $689 million tax benefit, primarily related to the revaluation of allocated U.S. deferred taxes at a lower federal statutory rate, in accordance with the newly enacted Tax Legislation.    

Higher realized crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas prices.    

Lower exploration expenses mainly due to:        

Lower leasehold impairment expense, primarily the absence of 2016  after-tax  charges of $132 million for our Gibson and Tiber leaseholds; $62 million for our Melmar
leasehold and $52 million for various Gulf of Mexico leases after completion of marketing efforts. The reduction was partly offset by an  after-tax  charge of $33 million for Shenandoah in deepwater
Gulf of Mexico and an  after-tax  charge of $24 million for certain mineral assets, both in 2017.    

Lower other exploration expenses, mainly due to the absence of a $95 million  after-tax  expense in 2016 related to the cancellation of our final Gulf of Mexico deepwater
drillship contract.    

Lower dry hole costs primarily due to the absence of 2016  after-tax  charges in deepwater Gulf of Mexico of $162 million for our Gibson and Tiber wells, and $83 million
for our Melmar well, partly offset by 2017  after-tax  charges of $187 million for multiple wells in Shenandoah and $41 million for several wells in the Powder River Basin.    
 In 2017, our average realized crude oil price of $47.36 per barrel was 7 percent less than WTI of $50.90 per barrel. The differential is driven primarily
by local market dynamics in the Gulf Coast and Bakken.    Total average production decreased 18 percent in 2017 compared with 2016. The decrease was
mainly attributable to normal field decline and the disposition of our interests in the San Juan Basin, partly offset by new production, primarily from Eagle Ford and Bakken.  
   Asset Disposition      On July 31, 2017, we
completed the sale of our interests in the San Juan Basin for total proceeds comprised of $2.5 billion in cash after customary adjustments and a contingent payment of up to $300 million. The  six-year 
contingent payment, effective beginning January 1, 2018, is due annually for the periods in which the monthly U.S. Henry Hub price is at or above $3.20 per million British thermal units.  
 On September 29, 2017, we completed the sale of our interest in the Panhandle assets for $178 million in cash after customary adjustments.  
 For additional information on our asset sales in the Lower 48, see Note 4 Assets Held for Sale, Sold or Acquired, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.     2016 vs. 2015     Lower 48 reported a loss
of $2,257 million  after-tax  in 2016, compared with a loss of $1,932 million  after-tax  in 2015. The increase in losses was primarily due to:  

The absence of a $368 million  after-tax  gain on the disposition of certain properties in South Texas, East Texas and North Louisiana.    

Lower crude oil and natural gas prices.    

Lower sales volumes across all commodities due to dispositions and field decline.    

Higher proved property impairments, including a $49 million  after-tax  impairment associated with changes to development plans for Eagle Ford infrastructure.
   
      44  

Table of Contents  

  The increase in losses was partly offset by:  

Lower production and operating expenses, mainly due to reduced activity and cost efficiencies.    

Lower exploration expenses, mainly due to:        

Reduced other exploration costs, mainly due to the absence of a $216 million  after-tax  charge related to the termination of our Gulf of Mexico deepwater drillship contract
with Ensco in 2015, partly offset by 2016 rig cancellation and related third party costs of $95 million  after-tax  for our final Gulf of Mexico deepwater drillship contract.    

Lower general and administrative, and geological and geophysical expenses.    

Lower leasehold impairment expense, including the absence of 2015  after-tax  charges of $154 million for certain leases in the Gulf of Mexico and $100 million for various
blocks in the Gila Prospect. The decrease in leasehold impairment was partly offset by 2016  after-tax  charges of $132 million for our Gibson and Tiber leaseholds and $62 million for the Melmar
Prospect, all in the Gulf of Mexico.    

Lower exploration expenses were partly offset by slightly increased dry hole costs in 2016, including  after-tax  charges in deepwater Gulf of Mexico of $162 million for our
Gibson and Tiber wells and $83 million associated with our Melmar well. Dry hole costs in 2016 were partly offset by the absence of a $111 million  after-tax  charge in 2015 associated with two wells
in the Gila Prospect in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.        

An $88 million gain associated with our receipt of Greater Northern Iron Ore Properties Trust assets in the fourth quarter of 2016.    

A $48 million  after-tax  benefit from a damage claim settlement.    

A $38 million  after-tax  gain from the disposition of noncore assets and lease exchanges.    

Lower DD A, mainly due to 2016 reserve additions and reduced volumes, partly offset by  price-related  reserve revisions.    
 Total average production decreased 11 percent in 2016 compared with 2015. The decrease was mainly attributable to normal field decline and the 2015
disposition of noncore properties in East Texas and North Louisiana, as well as South Texas. The reduction was partly offset by new production and well performance, primarily from Eagle Ford, Bakken and the Permian Basin, as well as lower unplanned
downtime.  
      45  

Table of Contents  

   Canada       
   Our Canadian operations mainly consist of an oil sands development in the Athabasca region of northeastern Alberta and a
liquids-rich unconventional play in western Canada. In 2017, Canada contributed 16 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 6 percent of our worldwide natural gas production.  
  2017 vs. 2016     Canada operations reported earnings of
$2,564 million in 2017, an increase of $3,499 million compared with 2016. The earnings increase was mainly due to an  after-tax  gain of $1.6 billion on the sale of certain Canadian assets,
further discussed below, as well as the recognition of $996 million in deferred tax benefits related to the capital gains component of our disposition and the recognition of previously unrealizable Canadian tax basis.  
 In addition to the items discussed above, earnings were further increased due to:      

Lower DD A, mainly from disposition impacts.    

Lower dry hole costs, mainly due to the absence of 2016 combined  after-tax  charges in offshore Nova Scotia of $187 million for our Cheshire and Monterey Jack wells.

Higher realized prices across all commodities.    

A $114 million tax benefit related to our prior decision to exit Nova Scotia deepwater exploration.    

Lower production and operating expenses.    

Improved equity earnings, as improved prices and reduced DD A more than offset the volume loss from our Canada disposition.    
      46  

Table of Contents  

  The earnings increase was partly offset by additional volume reductions from the disposition of our western
Canada gas assets.    Total average production decreased 45 percent in 2017 compared with 2016. The production decrease was primarily due to the Canada
disposition, partly offset by production  ramp-up  at Surmont.      Asset Disposition    
 On May 17, 2017, we completed the sale of our 50 percent nonoperated interest in the FCCL Partnership, as well as the majority of our western Canada
gas assets to Cenovus Energy. Consideration for the transaction was $11.0 billion in cash after customary adjustments, 208 million Cenovus Energy common shares and a  five-year  uncapped contingent
payment. The contingent payment, calculated and paid on a quarterly basis, is $6 million Canadian dollars (CAD) for every $1 CAD by which the Western Canada Select (WCS) quarterly average crude price exceeds $52 CAD per barrel. See Note
4 Assets Held for Sale, Sold or Acquired and Note 6 Investment in Cenovus Energy, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding our Canada disposition.  
  2016 vs. 2015     Canada operations reported a loss of
$935 million in 2016, a decrease in loss of $109 million compared with 2015. The decrease in loss was primarily due to:      

The absence of a $136 million impact of a 2 percent increase in Alberta corporate tax rates on deferred taxes in 2015.    

Lower production and operating expenses, mainly due to reduced headcount and the disposition of noncore assets in western Canada.    

Lower exploration expenses, mainly due to:        

Reduced leasehold impairment expense, including the absence of an impairment charge for undeveloped leasehold in the Duvernay, Thornbury, Saleski and Crow Lake areas. The reduction in leasehold impairment expense was
partly offset by a $23 million  after-tax  charge in the fourth quarter of 2016 primarily due to decisions to discontinue further testing on undeveloped leaseholds.    

Lower general and administrative, and geological and geophysical expenses.    

Lower dry hole costs, mainly due to the absence of 2015 charges associated with our Horn River, Northwest Territories, Thornbury and Saleski properties, partly offset by dry hole costs in 2016, including total  after-tax  charges in offshore Nova Scotia of $187 million for our Cheshire and Monterey Jack wells.        

Higher gains on dispositions, including the absence of a $103 million net  after-tax  loss on the disposition of noncore assets in western Canada in 2015.    
 The decrease in loss was partly offset by lower commodity prices; higher DD A expense, mainly from price-related reserve revisions; and a $42 million
 after-tax  impairment charge related to certain developed properties in central Alberta, which were classified as held for sale, being written down to fair value less costs to sell.  
 Total average production decreased 3 percent in 2016 compared with 2015, while bitumen production increased 21 percent over the same periods. The
decrease in total production was mainly attributable to the disposition of noncore assets in western Canada and normal field decline. The production decrease was partly offset by strong well performance in western Canada, Surmont and FCCL.  
      47  

Table of Contents  

   Europe and North Africa       
   The Europe and North Africa segment consists of operations principally located in the Norwegian and U.K. sectors of the North
Sea, the Norwegian Sea and Libya. In 2017, our Europe and North Africa operations contributed 18 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 15 percent of our natural gas production.  
  2017 vs. 2016     Earnings for Europe and North Africa
operations of $553 million increased 40 percent in 2017. The increase in earnings was primarily due to higher realized crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices. Earnings were additionally improved by lower DD A, mainly due
to reserve revisions; a $60 million tax benefit from the revaluation of allocated U.S. deferred taxes at a lower U.S. federal statutory rate, in accordance with the newly enacted Tax Legislation; and a $41 million tax benefit in Norway.
   The increase in earnings was partly offset by the absence of a 2016 net deferred tax benefit of $161 million resulting from a change in the U.K. tax
rate and a lower credit to impairment in 2017, compared to 2016, reflecting the annual updates to asset retirement obligations (ARO) on fields at or nearing the end of life which were impaired in prior years. The earnings improvement was further
reduced by a net deferred tax charge of $65 million in the U.K. resulting from updated assumptions regarding applicable tax rates.    Average
production increased 12 percent in 2017, compared with 2016. The increase was mainly due to the resumption and  ramp-up  of production in Libya; improved drilling and well performance in Norway; new
production from the Greater Britannia Area and Norway; and higher Norway gas offtake, partly offset by normal field decline.     2016 vs. 2015   
 Earnings for Europe and North Africa operations of $394 million decreased 4 percent in 2016. The decrease in earnings was primarily due to the
absence of a $555 million net deferred tax benefit as a result of a change in the U.K. tax rate, effective at the beginning of 2015; lower crude oil and natural gas prices; lower sales volumes; and the absence of a 2015  after-tax  gain of $49 million on the sale of our 1.9 percent interest in Norwegian Continental Shelf Gas Transportation (Gassled).  
      48  

Table of Contents  

  The decrease in earnings was partly offset by:  

Lower property impairments, including the absence of 2015  after-tax  charges of $317 million in the U.K. due to lower crude oil and natural gas prices, and a $180 million
credit to impairment in 2016 due to decreased ARO estimates on fields at or nearing the end of life which were impaired in prior years. The reduction in property impairments was partly offset by a $59 million
 after-tax  charge associated with our Calder Field and Rivers terminal in the U.K. For additional information on our impairments, see Note 8 Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Lower DD A expense in the U.K. driven by reduced rate, as a result of completed depreciation on the Brodgar H3  tie-back  well in 2015, and lower volumes.    

A $161 million net deferred tax benefit resulting from a reduction in the U.K. tax rate, which was enacted in September 2016 and effective January 1, 2016.    

Reduced operating expenses across the segment.      Average production decreased 1 percent in 2016, compared
with 2015. The decrease in production was mainly due to normal field decline, partly offset by improved drilling and well performance in Norway and new production from the Greater Ekofisk and Greater Britannia areas. Libya production remained
largely shut in, as the Es Sider crude oil export terminal closure continued throughout the third quarter of 2016. Production resumed in Libya in October 2016. 
      49  

Table of Contents  

   Asia Pacific and Middle East       
   The Asia Pacific and Middle East segment has operations in China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Australia, Timor-Leste and Qatar, as
well as exploration activities in Brunei. During 2017, Asia Pacific and Middle East contributed 14 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 52 percent of our natural gas production.  
  2017 vs. 2016     Asia Pacific and Middle East reported a
loss of $1,098 million in 2017, compared with earnings of $209 million in 2016. The increase in loss was mainly due to a $2,384 million before- and  after-tax  charge for the impairment of our
APLNG investment in 2017. For additional information on our APLNG impairment, see the  APLNG  section of Note 5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, lower sales
volumes in Indonesia, Australia and China further increased losses.  
      50  

Table of Contents  

  The increase in losses was partly offset by higher equity earnings, mainly as a result of higher commodity
prices, increased sales volumes at APLNG and the absence of a 2016 deferred tax charge of $174 million resulting from the change of our APLNG tax functional currency. Higher realized crude oil and natural gas prices on  non-equity  volumes further reduced the loss.    Average production was essentially flat in 2017.  
  2016 vs. 2015     Asia Pacific and Middle East reported
earnings of $209 million in 2016, compared with a loss of $463 million in 2015. The earnings increase was mainly due to:      

The absence of a $1,502 million before- and  after-tax  charge for the impairment of our APLNG investment in 2015. For additional information on our APLNG impairment, see the
 APLNG  section of Note 5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

Higher LNG sales volumes.    

Lower production taxes.    

Reduced feedstock costs at Darwin LNG.    

Lower operating expenses, mainly due to lower general and administrative spend, maintenance costs and transportation expenses across the segment.    

Lower exploration expenses, mainly due to lower dry hole costs, as well as the absence of a $41 million  after-tax  charge in 2015 for the impairment of our relinquished
Palangkaraya PSC, and reduced exploration general and administrative expense.      The earnings increase was partly offset by lower prices
across all commodities; lower equity earnings from APLNG, mainly as a result of higher DD A expense from APLNG Trains 1 and 2 coming online; and a third-quarter 2016 deferred tax charge of $174 million resulting from APLNG s tax
functional currency change.    Average production increased 15 percent in 2016, compared with 2015. The production increase in 2016 was mainly
attributable to new production from the  ramp-up  of APLNG in Australia and the Kebabangan gas field in Malaysia, improved drilling and well performance in China and Malaysia, and increased recoveries from
production sharing contracts in Indonesia. The production increase was partially offset by normal field decline across the segment.     Other
International       
   The Other International segment includes exploration activities in Colombia and Chile.  
      51  

Table of Contents  

   2017 vs. 2016   
 Other International operations reported earnings of $167 million in 2017, compared with a loss of $16 million in 2016. The increase in earnings was
primarily due to a $320 million before- and  after-tax  ICSID award from an arbitration with The Republic of Ecuador. Earnings were additionally increased due to lower rig stacking costs in Angola. The
increase in earnings was partly offset by the absence of a $138 million gain in 2016 on the disposition of ConocoPhillips Senegal B.V., the entity that held our interest in three exploration blocks offshore Senegal, and a $45 million tax
charge from the revaluation of allocated U.S. deferred taxes at a lower U.S. federal statutory rate, in accordance with the newly enacted Tax Legislation.  
  2016 vs. 2015     Other International operations reported a
loss of $16 million in 2016, compared with a loss of $593 million in 2015. The decrease in losses was primarily due to the absence of  after-tax  charges in 2015 of $235 million, $75 million
and $32 million net for property impairments on our Angola Block 36, Angola Block 37 and Poland leasehold, respectively. Additionally, losses decreased due to the absence of the 2015  after-tax  dry hole
expenses offshore Angola of $81 million for the  Omosi-1  well and $59 million for the  Vali-1  well, combined with a $138 million gain on the 2016
disposition of ConocoPhillips Senegal B.V., the entity that held our interest in three exploration blocks offshore Senegal.     Corporate and Other
      
    2017 vs. 2016     Net
interest consists of interest and financing expense, net of interest income and capitalized interest. Net interest decreased 25 percent in 2017 compared with 2016, primarily due to impacts from the fair market value method of apportioning
interest expense in the United States and lower interest as a result of reduced debt. Higher interest income further drove the decrease in net interest, which was partly offset by lower capitalized interest on projects.  
 Corporate general and administrative expenses which include pension settlement expenses and compensation program costs was essentially flat in 2017.  
 Technology includes our investment in new technologies or businesses, as well as licensing revenues received. Activities are focused on tight oil reservoirs,
LNG, oil sands and other production operations. Earnings from Technology were $20 million in 2017, compared with $50 million in 2016. The decrease in earnings primarily resulted from lower licensing revenues, partly offset by reduced
technology program spend.    The category  Other  includes certain foreign currency transaction gains and losses, environmental costs associated
with sites no longer in operation, other costs not directly associated with an operating segment and premiums incurred on the early retirement of debt.  Other  expenses increased $1,023 million in 2017, mainly due to an
$813 million tax charge from the revaluation of deferred taxes at a lower federal statutory rate, in accordance with the newly enacted Tax Legislation and premiums on our early retirement of debt.  
      52  

Table of Contents  

   2016 vs. 2015   
 Net interest increased 89 percent in 2016 compared with 2015, primarily as a result of the absence of the 2015 impacts from the fair market value of
apportioning interest expense in the United States, lower capitalized interest on projects, and increased debt.    Corporate general and administrative
expenses increased 17 percent in 2016, mainly due to increases from market impacts on certain compensation programs, partly offset by lower staff expenses.  
 Earnings from Technology were $50 million in 2016, compared with $122 million in 2015. The decrease in earnings primarily resulted from lower
licensing revenues, partly offset by reduced technology program spend.     Other  expenses decreased 34 percent in 2016, mainly due to lower
restructuring costs and favorable foreign currency impacts, partly offset by the absence of a 2015 tax benefit.  
      53  

Table of Contents  

   CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY   
  Financial Indicators       
        *Capital includes total debt and total equity.   
 To meet our short- and long-term liquidity requirements, we look to a variety of funding sources, including cash generated from operating activities, proceeds
from asset sales, our commercial paper and credit facility programs and our shelf registration statement. In 2017, the primary uses of our available cash were $7,876 million to reduce debt; $4,591 million to support our ongoing capital
expenditures and investments program; $1,305 million to pay dividends on our common stock; $1,790 million net purchases of short-term investments; $3,000 million to repurchase our common stock; and a $600 million contribution to
our domestic qualified pension plan. During 2017, cash and cash equivalents increased by $2,715 million to $6,325 million.    We believe current
cash balances and cash generated by operations, together with access to external sources of funds as described below in the  Significant Sources of Capital  section, will be sufficient to meet our funding requirements in the near and long
term, including our capital spending program, share repurchases, dividend payments and required debt payments.     Significant Sources of Capital   
   Operating Activities      During 2017, cash provided
by operating activities was $7,077 million, a 61 percent increase from 2016. The increase was primarily due to higher prices across all commodities.  
 While the stability of our cash flows from operating activities benefits from geographic diversity, our short- and long-term operating cash flows are highly
dependent upon prices for crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas liquids. Prices and margins in our industry have historically been volatile and are driven by market conditions over which we have no control. Absent other mitigating
factors, as these prices and margins fluctuate, we would expect a corresponding change in our operating cash flows.    The level of absolute production
volumes, as well as product and location mix, impacts our cash flows. Our 2017 production averaged 1,377 MBOED. Full-year 2018 production is expected to be 1,195 to 1,235 MBOED. This results in approximately 5 percent growth
compared with full-year 2017 underlying production, which excludes the impact of closed and planned dispositions of 191 MBOED. Production guidance for 2018 excludes Libya. Future production is subject to numerous uncertainties, including, among
others, the volatile crude oil and natural gas price environment, which may impact investment decisions; the effects of price changes on production sharing and variable-royalty contracts; acquisition and disposition of fields; field production
decline rates; new technologies; operating efficiencies; timing of startups and major turnarounds; political instability; weather-related disruptions; and the addition of proved reserves through exploratory success and their timely and
cost-effective development. While we actively manage these factors, production levels can cause variability in cash flows, although generally this variability has not been as significant as that caused by commodity prices.  
      54  

Table of Contents  

  To maintain or grow our production volumes on an ongoing basis, we must continue to add to our proved reserve
base. Our total reserve replacement in 2017 was negative 168 percent. Our organic reserve replacement, which excludes the impact of sales and purchases, was 200 percent in 2017. Over the five-year period ended December 31,
2017, our reserve replacement was a negative 24 percent (including 3 percent from consolidated operations) reflecting the impact of asset dispositions and lower prices. The total reserve replacement amount above is based on the sum of
our net additions (revisions, improved recovery, purchases, extensions and discoveries, and sales) divided by our production, as shown in our reserve table disclosures. For additional information about our 2018 capital budget, see the
 2018 Capital Budget  section within  Capital Resources and Liquidity  and for additional information on proved reserves, including both developed and undeveloped reserves, see the  Oil and Gas Operations  section of
this report.    As discussed in the  Critical Accounting Estimates  section, engineering estimates of proved reserves are imprecise; therefore,
each year reserves may be revised upward or downward due to the impact of changes in commodity prices or as more technical data becomes available on reservoirs. In 2017, revisions increased reserves, while in 2016 and 2015, revisions decreased
reserves. It is not possible to reliably predict how revisions will impact reserve quantities in the future.      Investing Activities    
 Proceeds from asset sales in 2017 were $13.9 billion. We completed the sale of our 50 percent nonoperated interest in the FCCL Partnership, as well
as the majority of our western Canada gas assets to Cenovus Energy. Consideration for the transaction included $11.0 billion in cash after customary adjustments and 208 million Cenovus Energy common shares. We completed the sale of our
interests in the San Juan Basin to an affiliate of Hilcorp Energy Company. Total proceeds for the sale was $2.5 billion in cash after customary adjustments. We also completed the sale of our interest in the Panhandle assets for
$178 million in cash after customary adjustments.    Proceeds from asset dispositions in 2016 were $1.3 billion, primarily from the sales of
ConocoPhillips Senegal B.V., the entity that held our 35 percent interest in three exploration blocks offshore Senegal; our 40 percent interest in South Natuna Sea Block B in Indonesia; our interest in the Alaska Beluga River Unit natural
gas field in the Cook Inlet; and certain mineral and  non-mineral  fee lands in northeastern Minnesota.    For
additional information on our dispositions and investment in Cenovus common shares, see Note 4 Assets Held for Sale, Sold or Acquired and Note 6 Investment in Cenovus Energy, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and the
Results of Operations section within Management s Discussion and Analysis.      Commercial Paper and Credit Facilities    
 We have a revolving credit facility totaling $6.75 billion, expiring in June 2019. Our revolving credit facility may be used for direct bank borrowings,
the issuance of letters of credit totaling up to $500 million, or as support for our commercial paper programs. The revolving credit facility is broadly syndicated among financial institutions and does not contain any material adverse change
provisions or any covenants requiring maintenance of specified financial ratios or credit ratings. The facility agreement contains a cross-default provision relating to the failure to pay principal or interest on other debt obligations of
$200 million or more by ConocoPhillips, or any of its consolidated subsidiaries.    Credit facility borrowings may bear interest at a margin above
rates offered by certain designated banks in the London interbank market or at a margin above the overnight federal funds rate or prime rates offered by certain designated banks in the United States. The agreement calls for commitment fees on
available, but unused, amounts. The agreement also contains early termination rights if our current directors or their approved successors cease to be a majority of the Board of Directors.  
 We have two commercial paper programs. The ConocoPhillips $6.25 billion commercial paper program is available to fund short-term working capital needs.
We also have the ConocoPhillips Qatar Funding Ltd. $500 million commercial paper program, which is used to fund commitments relating to QG3. Commercial paper maturities are generally limited to 90 days. We had no commercial paper outstanding at
December 31, 2017 or 2016, under either the ConocoPhillips or the ConocoPhillips Qatar Funding Ltd. commercial paper  
      55  

Table of Contents  

program. We had no direct borrowings or letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility. Since we had no commercial paper outstanding and had issued no letters of credit, we had
access to $6.75 billion in borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2017.    In the first quarter of 2017, Fitch and
Standard   Poor s reflected an improvement in their outlook for our debt from  negative  to  stable  and affirmed our long-term debt rating at   A-.   In January 2018,
Fitch further improved their outlook for our debt from  stable  to  positive.  After improving their outlook for our debt from  negative  to  positive  in the first quarter of 2017, Moody s Investor
Services upgraded our long-term debt rating from  Baa2  to  Baa1  with a stable outlook in the third quarter of 2017 in response to our debt reduction. We do not have any ratings triggers on any of our corporate debt that would
cause an automatic default, and thereby impact our access to liquidity, in the event of a downgrade of our credit rating. If our credit rating were downgraded, it could increase the cost of corporate debt available to us and restrict our access to
the commercial paper markets. If our credit rating were to deteriorate to a level prohibiting us from accessing the commercial paper market, we would still be able to access funds under our revolving credit facility.  
 Certain of our project-related contracts, commercial contracts and derivative instruments contain provisions requiring us to post collateral. Many of these
contracts and instruments permit us to post either cash or letters of credit as collateral. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had direct bank letters of credit of $338 million and $304 million, respectively, which secured performance
obligations related to various purchase commitments incident to the ordinary conduct of business. In the event of credit ratings downgrades, we may be required to post additional letters of credit.  
   Shelf Registration      We have a universal shelf
registration statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under which we, as a well-known seasoned issuer, have the ability to issue and sell an indeterminate amount of various types of debt and equity securities.  
   Off-Balance  Sheet Arrangements   
 As part of our normal ongoing business operations and consistent with normal industry practice, we enter into numerous agreements with other parties to pursue
business opportunities, which share costs and apportion risks among the parties as governed by the agreements.    For information about guarantees, see Note
11 Guarantees, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.  
      56  

Table of Contents  

   Capital Requirements   
 For information about our capital expenditures and investments, see the  Capital Expenditures  section.  
 Our debt balance at December 31, 2017, was $19.7 billion, a decrease of $7.6 billion from the balance at December 31, 2016.  
 In 2017, two notes totaling $1,001 million were paid at maturity, including the $1.0 billion 1.05% Notes due 2017. Also in 2017, we prepaid the
$1,450 million term loan facility due in 2019. We also redeemed a total $5.0 billion of debt, described below, incurring $301 million in premiums above book value, which are reported in the  Other expense  line on our
consolidated income statement.      

In the fourth
quarter of 2017, we gave notice to redeem the following debt instruments totaling $2.25 billion.      

The prepayments occurred on January 22, 2018,
and we incurred premiums above book value of $75 million.    On a longer-term basis our debt target is $15 billion by  year-end  2019. In the future, we may redeem other debt instruments or purchase debt instruments in the open market or otherwise, as we seek to achieve this target. Any such redemptions or purchases would be subject
to market conditions and other factors, and may be conducted or discontinued at any time without prior notice. For more information on Debt, see Note 10 Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 On January 31, 2017, we announced a 6 percent increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.265 per share. The dividend was paid on March 1, 2017,
to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 14, 2017. On May 5, 2017, we announced a quarterly dividend of $0.265 per share. The dividend was paid on June 1, 2017, to stockholders of record at the close of business
on May 15, 2017. On July 12, 2017, we announced a quarterly dividend of $0.265 per share. The dividend was paid on September 1, 2017, to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 24, 2017.   On October 6,
2017, we announced a quarterly dividend of $0.265 per share which was paid on December 1, 2017, to stockholders of record at the close of business on October 16, 2017. Additionally, on February 1, 2018, we announced an increase in the
quarterly dividend to $0.285 per share, compared with the previous quarterly dividend of $0.265 per share. The dividend is payable on March 1, 2018, to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 12, 2018.  
 On November 10, 2016, we announced plans to purchase up to $3 billion of our common stock through 2019. On March 29, 2017, we announced plans
to double our share repurchase program to $6 billion of common stock through 2019, with $3 billion allocated and purchased in 2017, and the remainder allocated evenly to 2018 and 2019. On February 1, 2018, we announced the
acceleration of our previously stated 2018 share repurchases from $1.5 billion to $2.0 billion, with the remaining balance to be repurchased in 2019. Since our share repurchase program began in November 2016, we have repurchased
66 million shares at a cost of $3.1 billion through December 31, 2017.    In addition to our previously announced share repurchase program
above, we are currently planning to purchase up to an additional $1.5 billion of our common stock through 2020. Whether we undertake these additional repurchases is ultimately subject to numerous considerations, including Board authorization, market
conditions and other factors. See Risk Factors  Our ability to declare and pay dividends and repurchase shares is subject to certain considerations.   
 During the third quarter of 2017, we made a $600 million contribution to our domestic qualified pension plan, which is included in the  Other 
line in the  Cash Flows From Operating Activities  section of our  
      57  

Table of Contents  

consolidated statement of cash flows. This additional contribution significantly lowers our domestic pension deficit which will reduce future premiums charged by the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation. It also mitigates the need for contributions in future quarters.     Contractual Obligations  
 The table below summarizes our aggregate contractual fixed and variable obligations as of December 31, 2017:  

(a) 
 Includes $252 million of net unamortized premiums, discounts and debt issuance costs. See Note 10 Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information.    

(b) 
 Capital lease obligations are presented on a discounted basis.        

(c) 
 Operating lease obligations are presented on an undiscounted basis.        

(d) 
 Represents any agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and that specifies all significant terms, presented on an undiscounted basis. Does not include purchase commitments for
jointly owned fields and facilities where we are not the operator.      The majority of the purchase obligations are
market-based contracts related to our commodity business. Product purchase commitments with third parties totaled $3,487 million.  
 Purchase obligations of $5,443 million are related to agreements to access and utilize the capacity of third-party equipment and
facilities, including pipelines and LNG and product terminals, to transport, process, treat and store commodities. The remainder is primarily our net share of purchase commitments for materials and services for jointly owned fields and facilities
where we are the operator.      

(e) 
 Represents contributions to qualified and nonqualified pension and postretirement benefit plans for the years 2018 through 2022. For additional information related to expected benefit payments subsequent to 2022, see
Note 17 Employee Benefit Plans, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
      58  

Table of Contents  

(f) 
 Represents estimated discounted costs to retire and remove long-lived assets at the end of their operations.        

(g) 
 Represents estimated costs for accrued environmental expenditures presented on a discounted basis for costs acquired in various business combinations and an undiscounted basis for all other accrued environmental costs.

(h) 
 Excludes unrecognized tax benefits of $831 million because the ultimate disposition and timing of any payments to be made with regard to such amounts are not reasonably estimable. Although unrecognized tax benefits
are not a contractual obligation, they are presented in this table because they represent potential demands on our liquidity.        
   Our capital expenditures and investments for the three-year period ended December 31, 2017, totaled $19.5 billion.
The 2017 expenditures supported key exploration and developments, primarily:      

Oil and natural gas development and exploration and appraisal activities in the Lower 48, including Eagle Ford, Bakken, the Permian Basin, the Niobrara in the Denver-Julesburg Basin and several emerging plays.

Alaska activities related to development in the Western North Slope, Greater Kuparuk Area, and the Greater Prudhoe Area.    

Development activities in Europe, including the Greater Ekofisk Area, Clair Ridge, Aasta Hansteen, and Heidrun.    

Continued oil sands development and appraisal activities in liquids-rich plays in Canada.    

Continued development in Malaysia, Indonesia, China, and Australia; appraisal activity in Australia and exploration activity in Malaysia.    
 2018 CAPITAL BUDGET    In November 2017, we announced a 2018
capital budget of $5.5 billion, including $3.5 billion of sustaining capital and $2 billion in accretive, short-cycle unconventional programs, future major projects and exploration activities.  
 We are planning to allocate approximately:      

51 percent of our 2018 capital expenditures budget to development drilling programs. These funds will focus predominantly on the Lower 48 unconventionals including the Eagle Ford, Bakken and Permian, as well as
development drilling in Australia/Timor-Leste, Norway and Alaska.    
      59  

Table of Contents  

18 percent of our 2018 capital expenditures budget to maintain base production and corporate expenditures.    

17 percent of our 2018 capital expenditures budget to major projects. These funds will focus on major projects in China, Alaska, Europe and Malaysia.    

8 percent of our 2018 capital expenditures budget to new exploration activity, primarily in Alaska and the Lower 48.    

6 percent of our 2018 capital expenditures budget to development appraisal, including the Lower 48, Canada and Alaska.    
 For information on proved undeveloped reserves and the associated costs to develop these reserves, see the  Oil and Gas Operations  section.  
  Contingencies     A number of lawsuits involving a variety
of claims arising in the ordinary course of business have been filed against ConocoPhillips. We also may be required to remove or mitigate the effects on the environment of the placement, storage, disposal or release of certain chemical, mineral and
petroleum substances at various active and inactive sites. We regularly assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these contingencies. In the case of all known contingencies (other than those related to income taxes), we accrue a
liability when the loss is probable and the amount is reasonably estimable. If a range of amounts can be reasonably estimated and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, then the minimum of the range is accrued. We do
not reduce these liabilities for potential insurance or third-party recoveries. If applicable, we accrue receivables for probable insurance or other third-party recoveries. With respect to income tax related contingencies, we use a cumulative
probability-weighted loss accrual in cases where sustaining a tax position is less than certain.    Based on currently available information, we believe it
is remote that future costs related to known contingent liability exposures will exceed current accruals by an amount that would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. For information on other contingencies, see
 Critical Accounting Estimates  and Note 12 Contingencies and Commitments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      Legal
and Tax Matters      We are subject to various lawsuits and claims including but not limited to matters involving oil and gas royalty and severance tax
payments, gas measurement and valuation methods, contract disputes, environmental damages, personal injury, and property damage. Our primary exposures for such matters relate to alleged royalty and tax underpayments on certain federal, state and
privately owned properties and claims of alleged environmental contamination from historic operations. We will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters.  
 Our legal organization applies its knowledge, experience and professional judgment to the specific characteristics of our cases, employing a litigation
management process to manage and monitor the legal proceedings against us. Our process facilitates the early evaluation and quantification of potential exposures in individual cases. This process also enables us to track those cases that have been
scheduled for trial and/or mediation. Based on professional judgment and experience in using these litigation management tools and available information about current developments in all our cases, our legal organization regularly assesses the
adequacy of current accruals and determines if adjustment of existing accruals, or establishment of new accruals, is required. See Note 18 Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information about income  tax-related  contingencies.  
      60  

Table of Contents  

    Environmental    
 We are subject to the same numerous international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations as other companies in our industry. The most
significant of these environmental laws and regulations include, among others, the:      

U.S. Federal Clean Air Act, which governs air emissions.    

U.S. Federal Clean Water Act, which governs discharges to water bodies.    

European Union Regulation for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH).    

U.S. Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or Superfund), which imposes liability on generators, transporters and arrangers of hazardous substances at sites where hazardous
substance releases have occurred or are threatening to occur.    

U.S. Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), which governs the treatment, storage and disposal of solid waste.    

U.S. Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA90), under which owners and operators of onshore facilities and pipelines, lessees or permittees of an area in which an offshore facility is located, and owners and operators
of vessels are liable for removal costs and damages that result from a discharge of oil into navigable waters of the United States.    

U.S. Federal Emergency Planning and Community   Right-to-Know   Act (EPCRA), which requires facilities to report toxic chemical inventories
with local emergency planning committees and response departments.    

U.S. Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, which governs the disposal of wastewater in underground injection wells.    

U.S. Department of the Interior regulations, which relate to offshore oil and gas operations in U.S. waters and impose liability for the cost of pollution cleanup resulting from operations, as well as potential
liability for pollution damages.    

European Union Trading Directive resulting in European Emissions Trading Scheme.      These laws and their
implementing regulations set limits on emissions and, in the case of discharges to water, establish water quality limits. They also, in most cases, require permits in association with new or modified operations. These permits can require an
applicant to collect substantial information in connection with the application process, which can be expensive and time consuming. In addition, there can be delays associated with notice and comment periods and the agency s processing of the
application. Many of the delays associated with the permitting process are beyond the control of the applicant.    Many states and foreign countries where
we operate also have, or are developing, similar environmental laws and regulations governing these same types of activities. While similar, in some cases these regulations may impose additional, or more stringent, requirements that can add to the
cost and difficulty of marketing or transporting products across state and international borders.    The ultimate financial impact arising from
environmental laws and regulations is neither clearly known nor easily determinable as new standards, such as air emission standards, water quality standards and stricter fuel regulations, continue to evolve. However, environmental laws and
regulations, including those that may arise to address concerns about global climate change, are expected to continue to have an increasing impact on our operations in the United States and in other countries in which we operate. Notable areas of
potential impacts include air emission compliance and remediation obligations in the United States and Canada.    An example is the use of hydraulic
fracturing, an essential completion technique that facilitates production of oil and natural gas otherwise trapped in lower permeability rock formations. A range of local, state, federal or national laws and regulations currently govern hydraulic
fracturing operations, with hydraulic fracturing currently prohibited in some jurisdictions. Although hydraulic fracturing has been conducted for many decades, a number of new laws, regulations and permitting requirements are under consideration by
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Department of the Interior, and others which could result in increased costs, operating restrictions, operational delays and/or limit the ability to develop oil and natural gas
 
      61  

Table of Contents  

resources. Governmental restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could impact the overall profitability or viability of certain of our oil and natural gas investments. We have adopted operating
principles that incorporate established industry standards designed to meet or exceed government requirements. Our practices continually evolve as technology improves and regulations change.  
 We also are subject to certain laws and regulations relating to environmental remediation obligations associated with current and past operations. Such laws
and regulations include CERCLA and RCRA and their state equivalents. Longer-term expenditures are subject to considerable uncertainty and may fluctuate significantly.  
 We occasionally receive requests for information or notices of potential liability from the EPA and state environmental agencies alleging we are a potentially
responsible party under CERCLA or an equivalent state statute. On occasion, we also have been made a party to cost recovery litigation by those agencies or by private parties. These requests, notices and lawsuits assert potential liability for
remediation costs at various sites that typically are not owned by us, but allegedly contain wastes attributable to our past operations. As of December 31, 2017, there were 14 sites around the United States in which we were identified as a
potentially responsible party under CERCLA and comparable state laws.    For most Superfund sites, our potential liability will be significantly less than
the total site remediation costs because the percentage of waste attributable to us, versus that attributable to all other potentially responsible parties, is relatively low. Although liability of those potentially responsible is generally joint and
several for federal sites and frequently so for state sites, other potentially responsible parties at sites where we are a party typically have had the financial strength to meet their obligations, and where they have not, or where potentially
responsible parties could not be located, our share of liability has not increased materially. Many of the sites at which we are potentially responsible are still under investigation by the EPA or the state agencies concerned. Prior to actual
cleanup, those potentially responsible normally assess site conditions, apportion responsibility and determine the appropriate remediation. In some instances, we may have no liability or attain a settlement of liability. Actual cleanup costs
generally occur after the parties obtain EPA or equivalent state agency approval. There are relatively few sites where we are a major participant, and given the timing and amounts of anticipated expenditures, neither the cost of remediation at those
sites nor such costs at all CERCLA sites, in the aggregate, is expected to have a material adverse effect on our competitive or financial condition.  
 Expensed environmental costs were $398 million in 2017 and are expected to be about $451 million per year in 2018 and 2019. Capitalized
environmental costs were $170 million in 2017 and are expected to be about $223 million per year in 2018 and 2019.    Accrued liabilities for
remediation activities are not reduced for potential recoveries from insurers or other third parties and are not discounted (except those assumed in a purchase business combination, which we do record on a discounted basis).  
 Many of these liabilities result from CERCLA, RCRA and similar state or international laws that require us to undertake certain investigative and remedial
activities at sites where we conduct, or once conducted, operations or at sites where ConocoPhillips-generated waste was disposed. The accrual also includes a number of sites we identified that may require environmental remediation, but which are
not currently the subject of CERCLA, RCRA or other agency enforcement activities. If applicable, we accrue receivables for probable insurance or other third-party recoveries. In the future, we may incur significant costs under both CERCLA and RCRA.
   Remediation activities vary substantially in duration and cost from site to site, depending on the mix of unique site characteristics, evolving
remediation technologies, diverse regulatory agencies and enforcement policies, and the presence or absence of potentially liable third parties. Therefore, it is difficult to develop reasonable estimates of future site remediation costs.  
      62  

Table of Contents  

  At December 31, 2017, our balance sheet included total accrued environmental costs of $180 million,
compared with $247 million at December 31, 2016, for remediation activities in the U.S. and Canada. We expect to incur a substantial amount of these expenditures within the next 30 years.  
 Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, and as with other companies engaged in similar businesses, environmental costs and liabilities are inherent concerns in
our operations and products, and there can be no assurance that material costs and liabilities will not be incurred. However, we currently do not expect any material adverse effect upon our results of operations or financial position as a result of
compliance with current environmental laws and regulations.      Climate Change    
 There has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction. These proposed or
promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. Laws in this field continue to evolve, and while it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our
future compliance costs relating to implementation, such laws, if enacted, could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Examples of legislation or precursors for possible regulation that do or could affect our
operations include:      

European Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), the program through which many of the European Union (EU) member states are implementing the Kyoto Protocol. Our cost of compliance with the EU ETS in 2017 was approximately
$1.5 million (net share  before-tax).     

The Alberta Specified Gas Emitter regulations require any existing facility with emissions equal to or greater than 100,000 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide or equivalent per year to reduce its net emissions intensity
from its baseline. The reduction requirement increased from 15 percent in 2016 to 20 percent in 2017. The total cost of compliance with these regulations in 2017 was approximately $3 million.    

The U.S. EPA s announcement on March 29, 2010 (published as  Interpretation of Regulations that Determine Pollutants Covered by Clean Air Act Permitting Programs,  75 Fed. Reg. 17004 (April 2,
2010)), and the EPA s and U.S. Department of Transportation s joint promulgation of a Final Rule on April 1, 2010, that triggers regulation of GHGs under the Clean Air Act, may trigger more climate-based claims for damages, and may
result in longer agency review time for development projects.    

The U.S. EPA s announcement on January 14, 2015, outlining a series of steps it plans to take to address methane and smog-forming volatile organic compound emissions from the oil and gas industry. The former
U.S. administration established a goal of reducing the 2012 levels in methane emissions from the oil and gas industry by 40 to 45 percent by 2025.    

Carbon taxes in certain jurisdictions. Our cost of compliance with Norwegian carbon tax legislation in 2017 was approximately $29 million (net share  before-tax).  We also
incur a carbon tax for emissions from fossil fuel combustion in our British Columbia and Alberta Operations totaling just over $1 million (net share  before-tax).     

The agreement reached in Paris in December 2015 at the 21st Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework on Climate Change, setting out a new process for achieving global emission reductions.
     In the United States, some additional form of regulation may be forthcoming in the future at the federal and state levels with respect to
GHG emissions. Such regulation could take any of several forms that may result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes, the restriction of output, investments of capital to maintain compliance with laws and regulations, or required
acquisition or trading of emission allowances. We are working to continuously improve operational and energy efficiency through resource and energy conservation throughout our operations.  
      63  

Table of Contents  

  Compliance with changes in laws and regulations that create a GHG tax, emission trading scheme or GHG reduction
policies could significantly increase our costs, reduce demand for fossil energy derived products, impact the cost and availability of capital and increase our exposure to litigation. Such laws and regulations could also increase demand for less
carbon intensive energy sources, including natural gas. The ultimate impact on our financial performance, either positive or negative, will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to:  

Whether and to what extent legislation or regulation is enacted.    

The timing of the introduction of such legislation or regulation.    

The nature of the legislation (such as a cap and trade system or a tax on emissions) or regulation.    

The price placed on GHG emissions (either by the market or through a tax).    

The GHG reductions required.    

The price and availability of offsets.    

The amount and allocation of allowances.    

Technological and scientific developments leading to new products or services.    

Any potential significant physical effects of climate change (such as increased severe weather events, changes in sea levels and changes in temperature).    

Whether, and the extent to which, increased compliance costs are ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services.    
 The company has responded by putting in place a corporate Climate Change Action Plan, together with individual business unit climate change management plans
in order to undertake actions in four major areas:      

Equipping the company for a low emission world, for example by integrating GHG forecasting and reporting into company procedures; utilizing GHG pricing in planning economics; and developing systems to handle GHG market
transactions.    

Reducing GHG emissions In 2016, the company reduced or avoided GHG emissions by approximately 114,000 metric tonnes by carrying out a range of programs across our business units. In 2017, we set a long-term target
to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions intensity between 5 percent and 15 percent by 2030 from a 2017 baseline. Setting such a target demonstrates our continuing systematic approach to managing climate-related risks throughout the
business.    

Evaluating business opportunities such as the creation of offsets and allowances, the use of low carbon energy and the development of low carbon technologies.    

Engaging externally The company is a sponsor of MIT s Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change; constructively engages in the development of climate change legislation and regulation; and
discloses our progress and performance through the Carbon Disclosure Project and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.      The company uses an
estimated market cost of GHG emissions of $40 per metric tonne to evaluate future projects and opportunities.    In 2017 and early 2018, cities and/or
counties in California and New York have filed lawsuits against oil and gas companies, including ConocoPhillips, seeking compensatory damages and equitable relief to abate alleged climate change impacts. ConocoPhillips will be vigorously defending
against these lawsuits.     Other     We have deferred tax
assets related to certain accrued liabilities, loss carryforwards and credit carryforwards. Valuation allowances have been established to reduce these deferred tax assets to an amount that will, more likely than not, be realized. Based on our
historical taxable income, our expectations for the future, and available  tax-planning  strategies, management expects the net deferred tax assets will be realized as offsets to reversing deferred tax
liabilities.  
      64  

Table of Contents  

   NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS   
 In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU)
 No. 2016-02,   Leases  (ASU  No. 2016-02),  which establishes comprehensive accounting and financial reporting requirements for leasing arrangements.
This ASU supersedes the existing requirements in FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 840,  Leases,  and requires lessees to recognize substantially all lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. The provisions
of ASU  No. 2016-02  also modify the definition of a lease and outline requirements for recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of leasing arrangements by both lessees and lessors. The ASU is
effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and early adoption of the standard is permitted. Entities are required to adopt the ASU using a modified retrospective approach, subject to certain optional practical
expedients, and apply the provisions of ASU  No. 2016-02  to leasing arrangements existing at or entered into after the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. In January 2018,
ASU  No. 2016-02  was amended by the provisions of ASU  No. 2018-01,   Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842.  We plan to adopt
ASU  No. 2016-02,  as amended, effective January 1, 2019, and continue to evaluate the ASU to determine the impact of adoption on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures, accounting
policies and systems, business processes, and internal controls. We also continue to monitor proposals issued by the FASB to clarify the ASU and certain industry implementation issues. While our evaluation of ASU
 No. 2016-02  and related implementation activities are ongoing, we expect the adoption of the ASU to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. For additional
information, see Note 24 New Accounting Standards, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES   
 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to select appropriate accounting
policies and to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. See Note 1 Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for descriptions of our major
accounting policies. Certain of these accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties to such an extent there is a reasonable likelihood materially different amounts would have been reported under different conditions, or if different
assumptions had been used. These critical accounting estimates are discussed with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors at least annually. We believe the following discussions of critical accounting estimates, along with the
discussions of contingencies and of deferred tax asset valuation allowances in this report, address all important accounting areas where the nature of accounting estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment
necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change.     Oil and Gas Accounting   
 Accounting for oil and gas exploratory activity is subject to special accounting rules unique to the oil and gas industry. The acquisition of geological and
geophysical seismic information, prior to the discovery of proved reserves, is expensed as incurred, similar to accounting for research and development costs. However, leasehold acquisition costs and exploratory well costs are capitalized on the
balance sheet pending determination of whether proved oil and gas reserves have been discovered on the prospect.      Property Acquisition Costs
     For individually significant leaseholds, management periodically assesses for impairment based on exploration and drilling efforts to date. For
relatively small individual leasehold acquisition costs, management exercises judgment and determines a percentage probability that the prospect ultimately will fail to find proved oil and gas reserves and pools that leasehold information with
others in the geographic area. For prospects in areas with limited, or no, previous exploratory drilling, the percentage probability of ultimate failure is normally judged to be quite high. This judgmental percentage is multiplied by the leasehold
acquisition cost, and that product is divided by the contractual period of the leasehold to determine a periodic leasehold impairment charge that is reported in exploration expense.  
      65  

Table of Contents  

  This judgmental probability percentage is reassessed and adjusted throughout the contractual period of the
leasehold based on favorable or unfavorable exploratory activity on the leasehold or on adjacent leaseholds, and leasehold impairment amortization expense is adjusted prospectively. At  year-end  2017, the book
value of the pools of property acquisition costs, that individually are relatively small and thus subject to the above-described periodic leasehold impairment calculation, was $503 million and the accumulated impairment reserve was
$130 million. The weighted-average judgmental percentage probability of ultimate failure was approximately 57 percent, and the weighted-average amortization period was approximately three years. If that judgmental percentage were to
be raised by 5 percent across all calculations,  before-tax  leasehold impairment expense in 2018 would increase by approximately $6 million. At  year-end  2017,
the remaining $3,249 million of net capitalized unproved property costs consisted primarily of individually significant leaseholds, mineral rights held in perpetuity by title ownership, exploratory wells currently being drilled, suspended
exploratory wells, and capitalized interest. Of this amount, approximately $2.4 billion is concentrated in nine major development areas, the majority of which are not expected to move to proved properties in 2018. Management periodically
assesses individually significant leaseholds for impairment based on the results of exploration and drilling efforts and the outlook for commercialization.  
   Exploratory Costs      For exploratory wells, drilling
costs are temporarily capitalized, or  suspended,  on the balance sheet, pending a determination of whether potentially economic oil and gas reserves have been discovered by the drilling effort to justify development.  
 If exploratory wells encounter potentially economic quantities of oil and gas, the well costs remain capitalized on the balance sheet as long as sufficient
progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project is being made. The accounting notion of  sufficient progress  is a judgmental area, but the accounting rules do prohibit continued capitalization of
suspended well costs on the expectation future market conditions will improve or new technologies will be found that would make the development economically profitable. Often, the ability to move into the development phase and record proved reserves
is dependent on obtaining permits and government or  co-venturer  approvals, the timing of which is ultimately beyond our control. Exploratory well costs remain suspended as long as we are actively pursuing such
approvals and permits, and believe they will be obtained. Once all required approvals and permits have been obtained, the projects are moved into the development phase, and the oil and gas reserves are designated as proved reserves. For complex
exploratory discoveries, it is not unusual to have exploratory wells remain suspended on the balance sheet for several years while we perform additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the potential oil and gas field or while we seek
government or  co-venturer  approval of development plans or seek environmental permitting. Once a determination is made the well did not encounter potentially economic oil and gas quantities, the well costs are
expensed as a dry hole and reported in exploration expense.    Management reviews suspended well balances quarterly, continuously monitors the results of
the additional appraisal drilling and seismic work, and expenses the suspended well costs as a dry hole when it determines the potential field does not warrant further investment in the near term. Criteria utilized in making this determination
include evaluation of the reservoir characteristics and hydrocarbon properties, expected development costs, ability to apply existing technology to produce the reserves, fiscal terms, regulations or contract negotiations, and our expected return on
investment.    At  year-end  2017, total suspended well costs were $853 million, compared with
$1,063 million at  year-end  2016. For additional information on suspended wells, including an aging analysis, see Note 7 Suspended Wells and Other Exploration Expenses, in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.      Proved Reserves    
 Engineering estimates of the quantities of proved reserves are inherently imprecise and represent only approximate amounts because of the judgments involved in
developing such information. Reserve estimates are based on geological and engineering assessments of  in-place  hydrocarbon volumes, the production plan, historical extraction recovery and processing yield
factors, installed plant operating capacity and approved operating limits. The reliability of these estimates at any point in time depends on both the quality and quantity of the technical and economic data and the efficiency of extracting and
processing the hydrocarbons.  
      66  

Table of Contents  

  Despite the inherent imprecision in these engineering estimates, accounting rules require disclosure of
 proved  reserve estimates due to the importance of these estimates to better understand the perceived value and future cash flows of a company s operations. There are several authoritative guidelines regarding the engineering
criteria that must be met before estimated reserves can be designated as  proved.  Our geosciences and reservoir engineering organization has policies and procedures in place consistent with these authoritative guidelines. We have trained
and experienced internal engineering personnel who estimate our proved reserves held by consolidated companies, as well as our share of equity affiliates.  
 Proved reserve estimates are adjusted annually in the fourth quarter and during the year if significant changes occur, and take into account recent production
and subsurface information about each field. Also, as required by current authoritative guidelines, the estimated future date when an asset will be permanently shut down for economic reasons is based on
 12-month  average prices and current costs. This estimated date when production will end affects the amount of estimated reserves. Therefore, as prices and cost levels change from year to year, the estimate of
proved reserves also changes. Generally, our proved reserves decrease as prices decline and increase as prices rise.    Our proved reserves include
estimated quantities related to production sharing contracts, reported under the  economic interest  method, as well as variable-royalty regimes, and are subject to fluctuations in commodity prices; recoverable operating expenses; and
capital costs. If costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to changes in commodity prices. We would expect reserves from these contracts to decrease when product prices rise and increase when
prices decline.    The estimation of proved developed reserves also is important to the income statement because the proved developed reserve estimate for a
field serves as the denominator in the   unit-of-production   calculation of the DD A of the capitalized costs for that asset. At
 year-end  2017, the net book value of productive properties, plants and equipment (PP E) subject to a   unit-of-production  
calculation was approximately $41 billion and the DD A recorded on these assets in 2017 was approximately $6.4 billion. The estimated proved developed reserves for our consolidated operations were 3.7 billion BOE at the end of
2016 and 3.0 billion BOE at the end of 2017. If the estimates of proved reserves used in the   unit-of-production   calculations had been lower by 10 percent
across all calculations,  before-tax  DD A in 2017 would have increased by an estimated $726 million.  
  Impairments     Long-lived assets used in operations are
assessed for impairment whenever changes in facts and circumstances indicate a possible significant deterioration in future cash flows expected to be generated by an asset group and annually in the fourth quarter following updates to corporate
planning assumptions. If there is an indication the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered, the asset is monitored by management through an established process where changes to significant assumptions such as prices, volumes and future
development plans are reviewed. If, upon review, the sum of the undiscounted  before-tax  cash flows is less than the carrying value of the asset group, the carrying value is written down to estimated fair
value. Individual assets are grouped for impairment purposes based on a judgmental assessment of the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets generally on
a   field-by-field   basis for exploration and production assets. Because there usually is a lack of quoted market prices for long-lived assets, the fair value of impaired
assets is typically determined based on the present values of expected future cash flows using discount rates believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants, or based on a multiple of operating cash flow validated with
historical market transactions of similar assets where possible. The expected future cash flows used for impairment reviews and related fair value calculations are based on judgmental assessments of future production volumes, commodity prices,
operating costs and capital decisions, considering all available information at the date of review. Differing assumptions could affect the timing and the amount of an impairment in any period. See Note 8 Impairments, in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information.  
      67  

Table of Contents  

  Investments in nonconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity method are reviewed for impairment when
there is evidence of a loss in value and annually following updates to corporate planning assumptions. Such evidence of a loss in value might include our inability to recover the carrying amount, the lack of sustained earnings capacity which would
justify the current investment amount, or a current fair value less than the investment s carrying amount. When it is determined such a loss in value is other than temporary, an impairment charge is recognized for the difference between the
investment s carrying value and its estimated fair value. When determining whether a decline in value is other than temporary, management considers factors such as the length of time and extent of the decline, the investee s financial
condition and near-term prospects, and our ability and intention to retain our investment for a period that will be sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in the market value of the investment. Since quoted market prices are usually not
available, the fair value is typically based on the present value of expected future cash flows using discount rates believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants, plus market analysis of comparable assets owned by the
investee, if appropriate. Differing assumptions could affect the timing and the amount of an impairment of an investment in any period. See the  APLNG  section of Note 5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information.     Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Costs   
 Under various contracts, permits and regulations, we have material legal obligations to remove tangible equipment and restore the land or seabed at the end of
operations at operational sites. Our largest asset removal obligations involve plugging and abandonment of wells, removal and disposal of offshore oil and gas platforms around the world, as well as oil and gas production facilities and pipelines in
Alaska. The fair values of obligations for dismantling and removing these facilities are recorded as a liability and an increase to PP E at the time of installation of the asset based on estimated discounted costs. Estimating future asset
removal costs is difficult. Most of these removal obligations are many years, or decades, in the future and the contracts and regulations often have vague descriptions of what removal practices and criteria must be met when the removal event
actually occurs. Asset removal technologies and costs, regulatory and other compliance considerations, expenditure timing, and other inputs into valuation of the obligation, including discount and inflation rates, are also subject to change.  
 Normally, changes in asset removal obligations are reflected in the income statement as increases or decreases to DD A over the remaining life of the
assets. However, for assets at or nearing the end of their operations, as well as previously sold assets for which we retained the asset removal obligation, an increase in the asset removal obligation can result in an immediate charge to earnings,
because any increase in PP E due to the increased obligation would immediately be subject to impairment, due to the low fair value of these properties.  
 In addition to asset removal obligations, under the above or similar contracts, permits and regulations, we have certain environmental-related projects. These
are primarily related to remediation activities required by Canada and various states within the United States at exploration and production sites. Future environmental remediation costs are difficult to estimate because they are subject to change
due to such factors as the uncertain magnitude of cleanup costs, the unknown time and extent of such remedial actions that may be required, and the determination of our liability in proportion to that of other responsible parties. See Note
9 Asset Retirement Obligations and Accrued Environmental Costs, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information.  
  Projected Benefit Obligations     Determination of the
projected benefit obligations for our defined benefit pension and postretirement plans are important to the recorded amounts for such obligations on the balance sheet and to the amount of benefit expense in the income statement. The actuarial
determination of projected benefit obligations and company contribution requirements involves judgment about uncertain future events, including estimated retirement dates, salary levels at retirement, mortality rates,
 lump-sum  election rates, rates of return on plan assets, future health care cost-trend rates, and rates of utilization of health care services by retirees. Due to the specialized nature of these calculations,
we engage outside actuarial firms to assist in the determination of these projected  
      68  

Table of Contents  

benefit obligations and company contribution requirements. For Employee Retirement Income Security  Act-governed  pension plans, the actuary exercises
fiduciary care on behalf of plan participants in the determination of the judgmental assumptions used in determining required company contributions into the plans. Due to differing objectives and requirements between financial accounting rules and
the pension plan funding regulations promulgated by governmental agencies, the actuarial methods and assumptions for the two purposes differ in certain important respects. Ultimately, we will be required to fund all vested benefits under pension and
postretirement benefit plans not funded by plan assets or investment returns, but the judgmental assumptions used in the actuarial calculations significantly affect periodic financial statements and funding patterns over time. Projected benefit
obligations are particularly sensitive to the discount rate assumption. A 1 percent decrease in the discount rate assumption would increase projected benefit obligations by $1,200 million. Benefit expense is particularly sensitive to the
discount rate and return on plan assets assumptions. A 1 percent decrease in the discount rate assumption would increase annual benefit expense by $110 million, while a 1 percent decrease in the return on plan assets assumption would
increase annual benefit expense by $60 million. In determining the discount rate, we use yields on high-quality fixed income investments matched to the estimated benefit cash flows of our plans. We are also exposed to the possibility that lump
sum retirement benefits taken from pension plans during the year could exceed the total of service and interest components of annual pension expense and trigger accelerated recognition of a portion of unrecognized net actuarial losses
and gains. These benefit payments are based on decisions by plan participants and are therefore difficult to predict. In the event there is a significant reduction in the expected years of future service of present employees
or elimination for a significant number of employees the accrual of defined benefits for some or all of their future services, we could recognize a curtailment gain or loss. See Note 17 Employee Benefit Plans, in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, for additional information.     Contingencies   
 A number of claims and lawsuits are made against the company arising in the ordinary course of business. Management exercises judgment related to accounting
and disclosure of these claims which includes losses, damages, and underpayments associated with environmental remediation, tax, contracts, and other legal disputes. As we learn new facts concerning contingencies, we reassess our position both with
respect to amounts recognized and disclosed considering changes to the probability of additional losses and potential exposure. However, actual losses can and do vary from estimates for a variety of reasons including legal, arbitration, or other
third-party decisions; settlement discussions; evaluation of scope of damages; interpretation of regulatory or contractual terms; expected timing of future actions; and proportion of liability shared with other responsible parties. Estimated future
costs related to contingencies are subject to change as events evolve and as additional information becomes available during the administrative and litigation processes. For additional information on contingent liabilities, see the
 Contingencies  section within  Capital Resources and Liquidity.   
      69  

Table of Contents  

   CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE  SAFE HARBOR  PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES
LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995     This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact included or incorporated by reference in this report, including, without limitation, statements regarding our future financial
position, business strategy, budgets, projected revenues, projected costs and plans, and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements contained in this report include our
expected production growth and outlook on the business environment generally, our expected capital budget and capital expenditures, and discussions concerning future dividends. You can often identify our forward-looking statements by the words
 anticipate,   estimate,   believe,   budget,   continue,   could,   intend,   may,   plan,   potential,   predict,   seek, 
 should,   will,   would,   expect,   objective,   projection,   forecast,   goal,   guidance,   outlook,   effort,   target  and
similar expressions.    We based the forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about ourselves and the industries in
which we operate in general. We caution you these statements are not guarantees of future performance as they involve assumptions that, while made in good faith, may prove to be incorrect, and involve risks and uncertainties we cannot predict. In
addition, we based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. Accordingly, our actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what we have expressed or forecast in the
forward-looking statements. Any differences could result from a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following:      

Fluctuations in crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas liquids prices, including a prolonged decline in these prices relative to historical or future expected levels.    

The impact of significant declines in prices for crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas liquids, which may result in recognition of impairment costs on our long-lived assets, leaseholds and nonconsolidated
equity investments.    

Potential failures or delays in achieving expected reserve or production levels from existing and future oil and gas developments, including due to operating hazards, drilling risks and the inherent uncertainties in
predicting reserves and reservoir performance.    

Reductions in reserves replacement rates, whether as a result of the significant declines in commodity prices or otherwise.    

Unsuccessful exploratory drilling activities or the inability to obtain access to exploratory acreage.    

Unexpected changes in costs or technical requirements for constructing, modifying or operating exploration and production facilities.    

Legislative and regulatory initiatives addressing environmental concerns, including initiatives addressing the impact of global climate change or further regulating hydraulic fracturing, methane emissions, flaring or
water disposal.    

Lack of, or disruptions in, adequate and reliable transportation for our crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas liquids.    

Inability to timely obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for construction, drilling and/or development; failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations; or inability to make capital expenditures
required to maintain compliance with any necessary permits or applicable laws or regulations.    

Failure to complete definitive agreements and feasibility studies for, and to complete construction of, announced and future exploration and production and LNG development in a timely manner (if at all) or on budget.

Potential disruption or interruption of our operations due to accidents, extraordinary weather events, civil unrest, political events, war, terrorism, cyber attacks, and information technology failures, constraints or
disruptions.    

Changes in international monetary conditions and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.    
      70  

Table of Contents  

Reduced demand for our products or the use of competing energy products, including alternative energy sources.    

Substantial investment in and development of alternative energy sources, including as a result of existing or future environmental rules and regulations.    

Liability for remedial actions, including removal and reclamation obligations, under environmental regulations.    

Liability resulting from litigation.    

General domestic and international economic and political developments, including armed hostilities; expropriation of assets; changes in governmental policies relating to crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural
gas liquids pricing, regulation or taxation; and other political, economic or diplomatic developments.    

Volatility in the commodity futures markets.    

Changes in tax and other laws, regulations (including alternative energy mandates), or royalty rules applicable to our business, including changes resulting from the implementation and interpretation of the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act.    

Competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry.    

Any limitations on our access to capital or increase in our cost of capital related to illiquidity or uncertainty in the domestic or international financial markets.    

Our inability to execute, or delays in the completion, of any asset dispositions we elect to pursue.    

Potential failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, any necessary regulatory approvals for asset dispositions or that such approvals may require modification to the terms of the transactions or the operation of our
remaining business.    

Potential disruption of our operations as a result of asset dispositions, including the diversion of management time and attention.    

Our inability to deploy the net proceeds from any asset dispositions we undertake in the manner and timeframe we currently anticipate, if at all.    

Our inability to liquidate the common stock issued to us by Cenovus Energy as part of our sale of certain assets in western Canada at prices we deem acceptable, or at all.    

Our inability to obtain economical financing for development, construction or modification of facilities and general corporate purposes.    

The operation and financing of our joint ventures.    

The ability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us.    

Our inability to realize anticipated cost savings and expenditure reductions.    

The factors generally described in Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2017 Annual Report on Form  10-K  and any additional risks described in our other filings with the SEC.
   
      71  

Table of Contents  

     Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
     Financial Instrument Market Risk     We and
certain of our subsidiaries hold and issue derivative contracts and financial instruments that expose our cash flows or earnings to changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates. We may use financial and
commodity-based derivative contracts to manage the risks produced by changes in the prices of natural gas, crude oil and related products; fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; or to capture market opportunities.  
 Our use of derivative instruments is governed by an  Authority Limitations  document approved by our Board of Directors that prohibits the use of
highly leveraged derivatives or derivative instruments without sufficient liquidity. The Authority Limitations document also establishes the Value at Risk (VaR) limits for the company, and compliance with these limits is monitored daily. The
Executive Vice President of Finance, Commercial, and Chief Financial Officer, who reports to the Chief Executive Officer, monitor commodity price risk and risks resulting from foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Commercial
organization manages our commercial marketing, optimizes our commodity flows and positions, and monitors risks.      Commodity Price Risk    
 Our Commercial organization uses futures, forwards, swaps and options in various markets to accomplish the following objectives:  

Meet customer needs. Consistent with our policy to generally remain exposed to market prices, we use swap contracts to convert fixed-price sales contracts, which are often requested by natural gas consumers, to floating
market prices.    

Enable us to use market knowledge to capture opportunities such as moving physical commodities to more profitable locations and storing commodities to capture seasonal or time premiums. We may use derivatives to
optimize these activities.      We use a VaR model to estimate the loss in fair value that could potentially result on a single day from the
effect of adverse changes in market conditions on the derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments we hold or issue, including commodity purchases and sales contracts recorded on the balance sheet at December 31, 2017,
as derivative instruments. Using Monte Carlo simulation, a 95 percent confidence level and a  one-day  holding period, the VaR for those instruments issued or held for trading purposes or held for purposes
other than trading at December 31, 2017 and 2016, was immaterial to our consolidated cash flows and net income attributable to ConocoPhillips.  
   Interest Rate Risk      The following table provides
information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in U.S. interest rates. The debt portion of the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Weighted-average
variable rates are based on effective rates at the reporting date. The carrying amount of our floating-rate debt approximates its fair value. The fair value of the fixed-rate financial instruments is estimated based on quoted market prices.  
      72  

Table of Contents  

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk    
 We have foreign currency exchange rate risk resulting from international operations. We do not comprehensively hedge the exposure to currency exchange rate
changes although we may choose to selectively hedge certain foreign currency exchange rate exposures, such as firm commitments for capital projects or local currency tax payments, dividends and cash returns from net investments in foreign affiliates
to be remitted within the coming year, and investments in   available-for-sale   securities.  
 At December 31, 2017 and 2016, we held foreign currency exchange forwards hedging cross-border commercial activity and foreign currency exchange swaps
and options for purposes of mitigating our cash-related exposures. Although these forwards, swaps and options hedge exposures to fluctuations in exchange rates, we elected not to utilize hedge accounting. As a result, the change in the fair value of
these foreign currency exchange derivatives is recorded directly in earnings.    At December 31, 2017, we had outstanding foreign currency  zero-cost  collars buying the right to sell $1.25 billion Canadian dollars (CAD) at $0.707 CAD and selling the right to buy $1.25 billion CAD at $0.842 CAD against the U.S. dollar. Based on the
assumed volatility in the fair value calculation, the net fair value of these foreign currency contracts as at December 31, 2017, was a  before-tax  loss of $9 million. Based on an adverse
hypothetical 10 percent change in the December 2017 exchange rate, this would result in an additional  before-tax  loss of $74 million. The sensitivity analysis is based on changing one assumption
while holding all other assumptions constant, which in practice may be unlikely to occur, as changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.   At
December 31, 2016, we had outstanding foreign currency exchange forward-swap contracts. Since the gain or loss on the swaps was offset from remeasuring the related cash balances and since our aggregate position in the forwards was not
material, there would have been no impact to our income from an adverse hypothetical 10 percent change in the December 2016 exchange rates.  
      73  

Table of Contents  

  The gross notional and fair market values of these positions at December 31, 2017 and 2016, were as follows:
     
      *Denominated in U.S. dollars (USD), British pound (GBP) and Canadian dollars
(CAD).      **Denominated in U.S. dollars.   
 For additional information about our use of derivative instruments, see Note 13 Derivative and Financial Instruments, in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.  
      74  

Table of Contents  

Item 8.  
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA        CONOCOPHILLIPS   
  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       
 
      75  

Table of Contents  

Report of Management   
 Management prepared, and is responsible for, the consolidated financial statements and the other information appearing in this annual report. The consolidated
financial statements present fairly the company s financial position, results of operations and cash flows in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. In preparing its consolidated financial statements, the
company includes amounts that are based on estimates and judgments management believes are reasonable under the circumstances. The company s financial statements have been audited by Ernst   Young LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm appointed by the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors and ratified by stockholders. Management has made available to Ernst   Young LLP all of the company s financial records and related data, as well as
the minutes of stockholders  and directors  meetings.     Assessment of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
 Management is also responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. ConocoPhillips  internal control
system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company s management and directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.  
 All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide
only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.    Management assessed the effectiveness of the company s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in  Internal Control Integrated
Framework (2013) . Based on our assessment, we believe the company s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017.  
 Ernst   Young LLP has issued an audit report on the company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, and their
report is included herein.      

/s/ Ryan M. Lance 

/s/ Don E. Wallette, Jr.  

Ryan M. Lance  

Don E. Wallette, Jr.   
 
   Chairman and   Chief Executive Officer  

Executive Vice President, Finance, Commercial and Chief Financial Officer  
   February 20, 2018  
      76  

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
 To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of ConocoPhillips  
  Opinion on the Financial Statements     We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ConocoPhillips as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related consolidated income statement, consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes, condensed consolidating financial information listed in the Index at Item 8, and financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a) (collectively referred to as the
 financial statements ). In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of ConocoPhillips at December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the consolidated
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  
 We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), ConocoPhillips  internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our
report dated February 20, 2018, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.     Basis for Opinion   
 These financial statements are the responsibility of ConocoPhillips  management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on ConocoPhillips 
financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to ConocoPhillips in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.    We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the
risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide
a reasonable basis for our opinion.      
 
      77  

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
 To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of ConocoPhillips  
  Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting     We
have audited ConocoPhillips  internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, ConocoPhillips maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on the COSO criteria.  
 We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance
sheets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related consolidated income statement, consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017,
and the related notes, condensed consolidating financial information listed in the Index at Item 8, and financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a) of ConocoPhillips and our report dated February 20, 2018, expressed an unqualified opinion
thereon.     Basis for Opinion     ConocoPhillips 
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included under the heading  Assessment of Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting  in the accompanying  Report of Management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on ConocoPhillips  internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm
registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to ConocoPhillips in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.    Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.     Definition and
Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.    Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.      
 
      78  

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Income Statement  
    
  ConocoPhillips    
 Years Ended December 31  
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
      79  

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income   
    
  ConocoPhillips      Years Ended December 31
 
    *Plans for which ConocoPhillips is not the primary obligor primarily those administered by equity affiliates.   
  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
      80  

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Balance Sheet  
    
  ConocoPhillips        
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
      81  

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  
    
  ConocoPhillips        
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
      82  

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  

ConocoPhillips        
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
      83  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
    
  ConocoPhillips   
    Note 1 Accounting Policies       

Consolidation Principles and Investments  Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of majority-owned, controlled subsidiaries and variable interest entities where we are the primary
beneficiary. The equity method is used to account for investments in affiliates in which we have the ability to exert significant influence over the affiliates  operating and financial policies. When we do not have the ability to exert
significant influence, the investment is either classified as   available-for-sale   if fair value is readily determinable, or the cost method is used if fair value is not
readily determinable. Undivided interests in oil and gas joint ventures, pipelines, natural gas plants and terminals are consolidated on a proportionate basis. Other securities and investments are generally carried at cost.    
 We manage our operations through six operating segments, defined by geographic region: Alaska, Lower 48, Canada, Europe and North Africa, Asia
Pacific and Middle East, and Other International. For additional information, see Note 23 Segment Disclosures and Related Information.      

Foreign Currency Translation  Adjustments resulting from the process of translating foreign functional currency financial statements into U.S. dollars are included in accumulated other comprehensive income in
common stockholders  equity. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in current earnings. Most of our foreign operations use their local currency as the functional currency.    

Use of Estimates  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from these estimates.    

Revenue Recognition  Revenues associated with sales of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, liquefied natural gas (LNG), natural gas liquids and other items are recognized when title passes to the customer, which
is when the risk of ownership passes to the purchaser and physical delivery of goods occurs, either immediately or within a fixed delivery schedule that is reasonable and customary in the industry.    
 Revenues associated with producing properties in which we have an interest with other producers are recognized based on the actual volumes we
sold during the period. Any differences between volumes sold and entitlement volumes, based on our net working interest, which are deemed to be nonrecoverable through remaining production, are recognized as accounts receivable or accounts payable,
as appropriate. Cumulative differences between volumes sold and entitlement volumes are generally not significant.    Revenues associated
with transactions commonly called buy/sell contracts, in which the purchase and sale of inventory with the same counterparty are entered into  in contemplation  of one another, are combined and reported net (i.e., on the same income
statement line).      

Shipping and Handling Costs  We include shipping and handling costs in production and operating expenses for production activities. Transportation costs related to marketing activities are recorded in
purchased commodities. Freight costs billed to customers are recorded as a component of revenue.        

Cash Equivalents  Cash equivalents are highly liquid, short-term investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and have original maturities of 90 days or less from their date of purchase.
They are carried at cost plus accrued interest, which approximates fair value.        

Short-Term Investments  Investments in bank time deposits and marketable securities (commercial paper and government obligations) with original maturities of greater than 90 days but less than one year are
classified as short-term investments.    
      84  

Table of Contents  

Inventories  We have several valuation methods for our various types of inventories and consistently use the following methods for each type of inventory. Our commodity-related inventories are recorded at
cost primarily using the  last-in,   first-out  (LIFO) basis. We measure these inventories at the     lower-of-cost-or-market     in the aggregate. Any necessary     lower-of-cost-or-market     write-downs at year end are recorded as permanent adjustments to the LIFO cost basis. LIFO is used to better match current inventory costs with current revenues. Costs
include both direct and indirect expenditures incurred in bringing an item or product to its existing condition and location, but not unusual/nonrecurring costs or research and development costs. Materials, supplies and other miscellaneous
inventories, such as tubular goods and well equipment, are valued using various methods, including the weighted-average-cost method, and the  first-in,   first-out  (FIFO)
method, consistent with industry practice.        

Fair Value Measurements  Assets and liabilities measured at fair value and required to be categorized within the fair value hierarchy are categorized into one of three different levels depending on the
observability of the inputs employed in the measurement. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs are observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 for
the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly through market-corroborated inputs. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability reflecting significant modifications to observable related market data or our
assumptions about pricing by market participants.        

Derivative Instruments  Derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. If the right of offset exists and certain other criteria are met, derivative assets and liabilities with the
same counterparty are netted on the balance sheet and the collateral payable or receivable is netted against derivative assets and derivative liabilities, respectively.    
 Recognition and classification of the gain or loss that results from recording and adjusting a derivative to fair value depends on the purpose
for issuing or holding the derivative. Gains and losses from derivatives not accounted for as hedges are recognized immediately in earnings.      

Oil and Gas Exploration and Development  Oil and gas exploration and development costs are accounted for using the successful efforts method of accounting.    
  Property Acquisition Costs  Oil and gas leasehold acquisition costs are capitalized and included in the balance sheet caption
properties, plants and equipment (PP E). Leasehold impairment is recognized based on exploratory experience and management s judgment. Upon achievement of all conditions necessary for reserves to be classified as proved, the associated
leasehold costs are reclassified to proved properties.     Exploratory Costs  Geological and geophysical costs and the costs of
carrying and retaining undeveloped properties are expensed as incurred. Exploratory well costs are capitalized, or  suspended,  on the balance sheet pending further evaluation of whether economically recoverable reserves have been found.
If economically recoverable reserves are not found, exploratory well costs are expensed as dry holes. If exploratory wells encounter potentially economic quantities of oil and gas, the well costs remain capitalized on the balance sheet as long as
sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project is being made. For complex exploratory discoveries, it is not unusual to have exploratory wells remain suspended on the balance sheet for several
years while we perform additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the potential oil and gas field or while we seek government or  co-venturer  approval of development plans or seek environmental
permitting. Once all required approvals and permits have been obtained, the projects are moved into the development phase, and the oil and gas resources are designated as proved reserves.  
 Management reviews suspended well balances quarterly, continuously monitors the results of the additional appraisal drilling and seismic work,
and expenses the suspended well costs as dry holes when it judges the potential field does not warrant further investment in the near term. See Note 7 Suspended Wells and Other Exploration Expenses, for additional information on suspended
wells.  
      85  

Table of Contents  

   Development Costs  Costs incurred to drill and equip development wells, including
unsuccessful development wells, are capitalized.     Depletion and Amortization  Leasehold costs of producing properties are
depleted using the   unit-of-production   method based on estimated proved oil and gas reserves. Amortization of intangible development costs is based on the   unit-of-production   method using estimated proved developed oil and gas reserves.      

Capitalized Interest  Interest from external borrowings is capitalized on major projects with an expected construction period of one year or longer. Capitalized interest is added to the cost of the underlying
asset and is amortized over the useful lives of the assets in the same manner as the underlying assets.        

Depreciation and Amortization  Depreciation and amortization of PP E on producing hydrocarbon properties and certain pipeline assets (those which are expected to have a declining utilization pattern), are
determined by the   unit-of-production   method. Depreciation and amortization of all other PP E are determined by either the individual-unit-straight-line method or the
group-straight-line method (for those individual units that are highly integrated with other units).        

Impairment of Properties, Plants and Equipment  PP E used in operations are assessed for impairment whenever changes in facts and circumstances indicate a possible significant deterioration in the future
cash flows expected to be generated by an asset group and annually in the fourth quarter following updates to corporate planning assumptions. If there is an indication the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered, the asset is monitored by
management through an established process where changes to significant assumptions such as prices, volumes and future development plans are reviewed. If, upon review, the sum of the undiscounted  before-tax 
cash flows is less than the carrying value of the asset group, the carrying value is written down to estimated fair value through additional amortization or depreciation provisions and reported as impairments in the periods in which the
determination of the impairment is made. Individual assets are grouped for impairment purposes at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets generally on
a   field-by-field   basis for exploration and production assets. Because there usually is a lack of quoted market prices for long-lived assets, the fair value of impaired
assets is typically determined based on the present values of expected future cash flows using discount rates believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants or based on a multiple of operating cash flow validated with
historical market transactions of similar assets where possible. Long-lived assets committed by management for disposal within one year are accounted for at the lower of amortized cost or fair value, less cost to sell, with fair value determined
using a binding negotiated price, if available, or present value of expected future cash flows as previously described.      The
expected future cash flows used for impairment reviews and related fair value calculations are based on estimated future production volumes, prices and costs, considering all available evidence at the date of review. The impairment review includes
cash flows from proved developed and undeveloped reserves, including any development expenditures necessary to achieve that production. Additionally, when probable and possible reserves exist, an appropriate risk-adjusted amount of these reserves
may be included in the impairment calculation.      

Impairment of Investments in Nonconsolidated Entities  Investments in nonconsolidated entities are assessed for impairment whenever changes in the facts and circumstances indicate a loss in value has occurred
and annually following updates to corporate planning assumptions. When such a condition is judgmentally determined to be other than temporary, the carrying value of the investment is written down to fair value. The fair value of the impaired
investment is based on quoted market prices, if available, or upon the present value of expected future cash flows using discount rates believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants, plus market analysis of comparable
assets owned by the investee, if appropriate.    
      86  

Table of Contents  

Maintenance and Repairs  Costs of maintenance and repairs, which are not significant improvements, are expensed when incurred.    

Property Dispositions  When complete units of depreciable property are sold, the asset cost and related accumulated depreciation are eliminated, with any gain or loss reflected in the  Gain on
dispositions  line of our consolidated income statement. When less than complete units of depreciable property are disposed of or retired, the difference between asset cost and salvage value is charged or credited to accumulated depreciation.

Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Costs  The   fair value of legal obligations to retire and remove long-lived assets are recorded in the period in which the obligation is incurred
(typically when the asset is installed at the production location). When the liability is initially recorded, we capitalize this cost by increasing the carrying amount of the related PP E. If, in subsequent periods, our estimate of this
liability changes, we will record an adjustment to both the liability and PP E. Over time the liability is increased for the change in its present value, and the capitalized cost in PP E is depreciated over the useful life of the related
asset. For additional information, see Note 9 Asset Retirement Obligations and Accrued Environmental Costs.    
 Environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized, depending upon their future economic benefit. Expenditures relating to an existing
condition caused by past operations, and those having no future economic benefit, are expensed. Liabilities for environmental expenditures are recorded on an undiscounted basis (unless acquired in a purchase business combination, which we record on
a discounted basis) when environmental assessments or cleanups are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from other parties are recorded as assets when their receipt is probable and
estimable.      

Guarantees  The fair value of a guarantee is determined and recorded as a liability at the time the guarantee is given. The initial liability is subsequently reduced as we are released from exposure under the
guarantee. We amortize the guarantee liability over the relevant time period, if one exists, based on the facts and circumstances surrounding each type of guarantee. In cases where the guarantee term is indefinite, we reverse the liability when we
have information indicating the liability is essentially relieved or amortize it over an appropriate time period as the fair value of our guarantee exposure declines over time. We amortize the guarantee liability to the related income statement line
item based on the nature of the guarantee. When it becomes probable that we will have to perform on a guarantee, we accrue a separate liability if it is reasonably estimable, based on the facts and circumstances at that time. We reverse the fair
value liability only when there is no further exposure under the guarantee.        

Share-Based Compensation  We recognize share-based compensation expense over the shorter of the service period (i.e., the stated period of time required to earn the award) or the period beginning at the start
of the service period and ending when an employee first becomes eligible for retirement. We have elected to recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the service period for the entire award, whether the award was granted with ratable or cliff
vesting.        

Income Taxes  Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method and are provided on all temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities,
except for deferred taxes on income and temporary differences related to the cumulative translation adjustment considered to be permanently reinvested in certain foreign subsidiaries and foreign corporate joint ventures. Allowable tax credits are
applied currently as reductions of the provision for income taxes. Interest related to unrecognized tax benefits is reflected in interest and debt expense, and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are reflected in production and operating
expenses.        

Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities  Sales and value-added taxes are recorded net.    
      87  

Table of Contents  

Net Income (Loss) Per Share of Common Stock  Basic net income (loss) per share of common stock is calculated based upon the daily weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Also,
this   calculation includes fully vested stock and unit awards that have not yet been issued as common stock, along with an adjustment to net income (loss) for dividend equivalents paid on unvested unit awards that are considered participating
securities. Diluted net income per share of common stock includes unvested stock, unit or option awards granted under our compensation plans and vested but unexercised stock options, but only to the extent these instruments dilute net income per
share, primarily under the treasury-stock method. Diluted net loss per share, which is calculated the same as basic net loss per share, does not assume conversion or exercise of securities that would have an antidilutive effect. Treasury stock is
excluded from the daily weighted-average number of common shares outstanding in both calculations. The earnings per share impact of the participating securities is immaterial.    
  Note 2 Variable Interest Entities (VIEs)     We hold
variable interests in VIEs that have not been consolidated because we are not considered the primary beneficiary. Information on our significant VIEs follows:  
  Australia Pacific LNG Pty Ltd (APLNG)     APLNG is
considered a VIE, as it has entered into certain contractual arrangements that provide it with additional forms of subordinated financial support. We are not the primary beneficiary of APLNG because we share with Origin Energy and China
Petrochemical Corporation (Sinopec) the power to direct the key activities of APLNG that most significantly impact its economic performance, which involve activities related to the production and commercialization of coalbed methane, as well as LNG
processing and export marketing. As a result, we do not consolidate APLNG, and it is accounted for as an equity method investment.    As of
December 31, 2017, we have not provided any financial support to APLNG other than amounts previously contractually required. Unless we elect otherwise, we have no requirement to provide liquidity or purchase the assets of APLNG. See Note
5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, and Note 11 Guarantees, for additional information.     Marine Well Containment Company, LLC
(MWCC)     MWCC provides well containment equipment and technology and related services in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Its principal activities
involve the development and maintenance of rapid-response hydrocarbon well containment systems that are deployable in the Gulf of Mexico on a  call-out  basis. We have a 10 percent ownership interest in
MWCC, and it is accounted for as an equity method investment because MWCC is a limited liability company in which we are a Founding Member and exercise significant influence through our permanent seat on the
 ten-member  Executive Committee responsible for overseeing the affairs of MWCC. In 2016, MWCC executed a $154 million term loan financing arrangement with an external financial institution whose terms
required the financing be secured by letters of credit provided by certain owners of MWCC, including ConocoPhillips. In connection with the financing transaction, we issued a letter of credit of $22 million which can be drawn upon in the event
of a default by MWCC on its obligation to repay the proceeds of the term loan. The fair value of this letter of credit is immaterial and not recognized on our consolidated balance sheet. MWCC is considered a VIE, as it has entered into arrangements
that provide it with additional forms of subordinated financial support. We are not the primary beneficiary and do not consolidate MWCC because we share the power to govern the business and operation of the company and to undertake certain
obligations that most significantly impact its economic performance with nine other unaffiliated owners of MWCC.    At December 31, 2017, the book
value of our equity method investment in MWCC was $139 million. We have not provided any financial support to MWCC other than amounts previously contractually required. Unless we elect otherwise, we have no requirement to provide liquidity or
purchase the assets of MWCC.  
      88  

Table of Contents  

   Note 3 Inventories   
 Inventories at December 31 were:      
   Inventories valued on the LIFO basis totaled $341 million and $269 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016,
respectively. The estimated excess of current replacement cost over LIFO cost of inventories was approximately $124 million and $104 million at December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. In 2017, liquidation of LIFO
inventory values increased the net loss attributable to ConocoPhillips by $1 million.     Note 4 Assets Held for Sale, Sold or Acquired   
  Assets Held for Sale     In the second quarter of 2017, we
signed a definitive agreement to sell our interest in the Barnett. We terminated this agreement in the fourth quarter of 2017 and are continuing to market the asset in 2018. In connection with the signing of the definitive agreement, we recorded a  before-tax  impairment of $572 million to reduce the carrying value of our investment to estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2017, our Barnett interests had a net carrying value of approximately
$291 million and were considered held for sale resulting in the reclassification of $339 million of PP E to  Prepaid expenses and other current assets  and $48 million of noncurrent liabilities, primarily asset
retirement obligations (ARO), to  Other accruals  on our consolidated balance sheet. The  before-tax  loss associated with our interests in the Barnett, including the $572 million impairment noted
above, was $566 million, $66 million, and $58 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Barnett results of operations are reported within our Lower 48 segment.  
 In addition to the Barnett, certain other properties in our Lower 48 segment met the criteria for assets held for sale at December 31, 2017. These
properties had a net carrying value of approximately $212 million after recording a  before-tax  impairment of $78 million to reduce the carrying value to estimated fair value in the fourth quarter of
2017. We reclassified $238 million of PP E to  Prepaid expenses and other current assets  and $26 million of noncurrent liabilities, primarily AROs, to  Other accruals  on our consolidated balance
sheet. In January 2018, we completed the sale of a portion of these properties for net proceeds of $112 million.     Assets Sold   
 All gains or losses are reported  before-tax  and are included net in the  Gain on dispositions  line on our
consolidated income statement. All cash proceeds are included in the  Cash Flows From Investing Activities  section of our consolidated statement of cash flows.  
   2017      On May 17, 2017, we completed the sale
of our 50 percent nonoperated interest in the Foster Creek Christina Lake (FCCL) Partnership, as well as the majority of our western Canada gas assets to Cenovus Energy. Consideration for the transaction was $11.0 billion in cash after
customary adjustments, 208 million Cenovus Energy common shares and a five-year uncapped contingent payment. The value of the shares at closing was $1.96 billion based on a price of $9.41 per share on the New York Stock Exchange. The
contingent payment, calculated and paid on a quarterly basis, is $6 million Canadian dollars (CAD) for every $1 CAD by which the Western Canada Select (WCS) quarterly average crude price exceeds $52 CAD per barrel.  
      89  

Table of Contents  

  At closing, the carrying value of our equity investment in FCCL was $8.9 billion. The carrying value of our
interest in the western Canada gas assets was $1.9 billion consisting primarily of $2.6 billion of PP E, partly offset by AROs of $585 million and approximately $100 million of environmental and other accruals. A  before-tax  gain of $2.1 billion was included in the  Gain on disposition  line on our consolidated income statement in 2017. We reported  before-tax  losses of
$26 million, $572 million and $582 million for the western Canada gas producing properties for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We reported  before-tax  equity
earnings of $197 million, $89 million and $78 million for FCCL for the same periods, respectively. Both FCCL and the western Canada gas assets were reported within our Canada segment.  
 For more information on the Canada disposition and our investment in Cenovus Energy see Note 6 Investment in Cenovus Energy, Note 14 Fair Value
Measurement, and Note 19 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss.    On July 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our interests in the San Juan Basin
to an affiliate of Hilcorp Energy Company for $2.5 billion in cash after customary adjustments, and recognized a loss on disposition of $22 million. The transaction includes a contingent payment of up to $300 million. The  six-year  contingent payment, effective beginning January 1, 2018, is due annually for the periods in which the monthly U.S. Henry Hub price is at or above $3.20 per million British thermal units.  
 In the second quarter of 2017, we recorded a  before-tax  impairment of $3.3 billion to reduce the carrying value
of our interests in the San Juan Basin to fair value. At the time of disposition, the San Juan Basin interests had a net carrying value of approximately $2.5 billion, consisting of $2.9 billion of PP E and $406 million of
liabilities, primarily AROs. The  before-tax  loss associated with our interests in the San Juan Basin, including both the $3.3 billion impairment and $22 million loss on disposition noted above,
was $3.2 billion, $239 million and $99 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The San Juan Basin results of operations were reported within our Lower 48 segment.  
 On September 29, 2017, we completed the sale of our interest in the Panhandle assets for $178 million in cash after customary adjustments, and
recognized a  before-tax  loss on disposition of $28 million. At the time of the disposition, the carrying value of our interest was $206 million, consisting primarily of $279 million of PP E
and $72 million of AROs. Including the $28 million loss on disposition noted above, we reported  before-tax  losses for the Panhandle properties of $14 million, $21 million, and
$41 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Panhandle results were reported within our Lower 48 segment.  
   2016      In April 2016, we sold our interest in the
Alaska Beluga River Unit natural gas field in the Cook Inlet for $134 million, net of settlement of gas imbalances and customary adjustments, and recognized a gain on disposition of $56 million. At the time of disposition, the net carrying
value of our Beluga River Unit interest, which was included in the Alaska segment, was $78 million, consisting primarily of $100 million of PP E and $19 million of AROs.  
 In October 2016, we completed an asset exchange with Bonavista Energy in which we gave up approximately 141,000 net acres of noncore developed properties in
central Alberta in exchange for approximately 40,000 net acres of primarily undeveloped properties in northeast British Columbia. The fair value of the transaction was determined to be approximately $69 million and a  before-tax  impairment of $57 million was recognized in the third quarter of 2016 when the assets were considered held for sale, to reduce the carrying value to fair value. A loss on disposition of approximately
$1 million was recognized upon completion of the transaction. The divested properties were included in the Canada segment.    Also in October 2016, we
sold ConocoPhillips Senegal B.V., the entity that held our 35 percent interest in three exploration blocks offshore Senegal for $442 million and recognized a gain on disposition of $146 million. At the time of disposition, the
carrying value of our interest was $286 million, which was primarily PP E. Senegal results of operations were reported within our Other International segment.  
      90  

Table of Contents  

  In November 2016, we completed the sale of our 40 percent interest in South Natuna Sea Block B for
$225 million and recognized a loss on disposition of $26 million. Our interest in Block B was included in the Asia Pacific and Middle East segment. In 2016, we recognized a  before-tax  impairment of
$42 million at the time it was considered held for sale to reduce the carrying value to fair value. At the time of the disposition, the carrying value of our interest was approximately $251   million, which included primarily
$154 million of PP E, $178 million of accounts receivable, $25 million of inventory, $54 million of deferred tax assets, $130 million of accounts payable and other accruals, and $38 million of employee benefit
obligations.    In December 2016, we completed the sale of certain mineral and  non-mineral  fee lands in northeastern
Minnesota, which were included in the Lower 48 segment, for $148 million and recorded a gain on disposition of $4 million. The majority of the assets sold were acquired during the fourth quarter of 2016 as a result of ConocoPhillips
holding a reversionary interest in the Greater Northern Iron Ore Properties Trust (the Trust), a grantor trust that owned mineral and surface interests in the Mesabi Iron Range in northeastern Minnesota and certain other personal property. Pursuant
to the terms of the Trust Agreement, the Trust terminated on April 6, 2015. In November 2016, upon completion of the wind-down period, documents memorializing ConocoPhillips  ownership of certain Trust property, including all of the
Trust s mineral properties and active leases, were delivered to us and we recognized the fair value of the net assets resulting in a gain of $88 million recorded in the  Other income  line on our consolidated income statement. At
the time of the disposition, the carrying value of our interests, which included the assets obtained from the Trust, consisted of $144 million of PP E.  
   2015      In November 2015, we sold a portion of our
western Canadian properties located in British Columbia, Alberta, and Saskatchewan for $198 million and recognized a gain on disposition of $66 million. At the time of the disposition, the carrying value of our interest, which was included
in the Canada segment, was $132 million, which included primarily $379 million of PP E and $248 million of ARO.    In December 2015, we
sold a portion of our western Canadian properties located in central Alberta for $130 million and recognized a loss on disposition of $235 million. At the time of the disposition, the carrying value of our interest, which was included in
the Canada segment, was approximately $365   million, which included primarily $488 million of PP E and $126 million of ARO.  
 Additionally, other December 2015 disposition transactions are summarized below.  
 We sold producing properties in East Texas and North Louisiana for $412 million and recognized a gain on disposition of $189 million. At the time of
the disposition, the carrying value of our interest, which was included in the Lower 48 segment, was $223   million, which included $351 million of PP E and $128 million of ARO.  
 We sold certain gas producing properties in South Texas for $358 million and recognized a gain on disposition of $201 million. At the time of the
disposition, the carrying value of our interest, which was included in the Lower 48 segment, was $157   million, which included $369 million of PP E and $212 million of ARO.  
 We sold certain pipeline and gathering assets in South Texas for $201 million and recognized a gain on disposition of $193 million. At the time of
the disposition, the carrying value of our interest, which was included in the Lower 48 segment, was $8   million, which primarily included $24 million of PP E and $18 million of ARO.  
 We also sold our 50 percent interest in the Russian joint venture, Polar Lights Company, for $98 million and recognized a gain on disposition of
$58 million. At the time of the disposition, the carrying value of our equity method investment in Polar Lights Company, which was included in our Other International segment, was approximately $40 million.  
      91  

Table of Contents  

   Acquisition   
 In January 2018, we entered into an agreement to acquire certain oil and gas assets in Alaska for $400 million, subject to customary adjustments. The
acquisition is subject to regulatory approval.     Note 5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables  
 Components of investments, loans and long-term receivables at December 31 were:  
   
    Equity Investments   
 Affiliated companies in which we had a significant equity investment at December 31, 2017, included:  

APLNG 37.5 percent owned joint venture with Origin Energy (37.5 percent) and Sinopec (25 percent) to develop coalbed methane production from the Bowen and Surat basins in Queensland, Australia,
as well as process and export LNG.    

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (3) (QG3) 30 percent owned joint venture with affiliates of Qatar Petroleum (68.5 percent) and Mitsui   Co., Ltd. (1.5 percent) produces and liquefies natural
gas from Qatar s North Field, as well as exports LNG.      Summarized 100 percent earnings information for equity method investments
in affiliated companies, combined, was as follows:      
   Summarized 100 percent balance sheet information for equity method investments in affiliated companies, combined, was as
follows:      
   Our share of income taxes incurred directly by an equity company is reported in equity in earnings of affiliates, and as such
is not included in income taxes in our consolidated financial statements.  
      92  

Table of Contents  

  At December 31, 2017, retained earnings included $20 million related to the undistributed earnings of
affiliated companies. Dividends received from affiliates were $605 million, $398 million and $876 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
  APLNG     APLNG is focused on coalbed methane production
from the Bowen and Surat basins in Queensland, Australia, to supply the domestic gas market and on LNG processing and export sales. Our investment in APLNG gives us access to coalbed methane resources in Australia and enhances our LNG position. The
majority of APLNG LNG is sold under two long- term sales and purchase agreements, supplemented with sales of additional LNG spot cargoes targeting the Asia Pacific markets. Origin Energy, an integrated Australian energy company, is the operator of
APLNG s production and pipeline system, while we operate the LNG facility.    APLNG executed project financing agreements for an $8.5 billion
project finance facility in 2012. The $8.5 billion project finance facility is composed of financing agreements executed by APLNG with the Export-Import Bank of the United States for approximately $2.9 billion, the Export-Import Bank of
China for approximately $2.7 billion, and a syndicate of Australian and international commercial banks for approximately $2.9 billion. At December 31, 2017, all amounts have been drawn from the facility. APLNG made its first principal
and interest repayment in March 2017, and will continue to make  bi-annual  payments until March 2029. At December 31, 2017, a balance of $7.9 billion was outstanding on the facility. In connection
with the execution of the project financing, we provided a completion guarantee for our  pro-rata  share of the project finance facility until the project achieves financial completion. In October 2016, we
reached financial completion for Train 1, which reduced our associated guarantee by 60 percent. In August 2017, we reached financial completion for Train 2, which removed the remaining guarantee. See Note 11 Guarantees, for additional
information.    APLNG is considered a VIE, as it has entered into certain contractual arrangements that provide it with additional forms of subordinated
financial support. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities (VIEs) for additional information.    On July 1, 2016, APLNG changed its tax functional
currency from Australian dollar to U.S. dollar and translated all APLNG assets and liabilities into U.S. dollar, utilizing the exchange rate as of that date. As a result of this change, we recorded a reduction to our investment in APLNG for the
deferred tax effect of $174 million in the  Equity in earnings of affiliates  line of our consolidated income statement.    During the fourth
quarter of 2015, due to the outlook for crude oil and natural gas prices at that time, the estimated fair value of our investment in APLNG declined to an amount below book value. Accordingly, we recorded a noncash $1,502 million before- and  after-tax  impairment, in our fourth-quarter 2015 results.    During the first and second quarters of 2017, the outlook for
crude oil prices deteriorated, and as a result of significantly reduced price outlooks, the estimated fair value of our investment in APLNG declined to an amount below carrying value. Based on a review of the facts and circumstances surrounding this
decline in fair value, we concluded in the second quarter of 2017 the impairment was other than temporary under the guidance of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 323,  Investments
  Equity Method and Joint Ventures,  and the recognition of an impairment of our investment to fair value was necessary. Accordingly, we recorded a noncash $2,384 million, before- and after- tax impairment in our second-quarter 2017
results. Fair value was estimated based on an internal discounted cash flow model using estimated future production, an outlook of future prices from a combination of exchanges (short-term) and pricing service companies (long-term), costs, a market
outlook of foreign exchange rates provided by a third party, and a discount rate believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants. The impairment was included in the  Impairments  line on our consolidated income
statement.    At December 31, 2017, the carrying value of our equity method investment in APLNG was $7,669 million. The historical cost basis of
our 37.5 percent share of net assets on the books of APLNG was $7,213 million, resulting in a basis difference of $456 million on our books. The basis difference, which is substantially all
 
      93  

Table of Contents  

associated with PP E and subject to amortization, has been allocated on a relative fair value basis to individual exploration and production license areas owned by APLNG, some of which are
not currently in production. Any future additional payments are expected to be allocated in a similar manner. Each exploration license area will periodically be reviewed for any indicators of potential impairment, which, if required, would result in
acceleration of basis difference amortization. As the joint venture produces natural gas from each license, we amortize the basis difference allocated to that license using the
  unit-of-production   method. Included in net loss attributable to ConocoPhillips for 2017, 2016 and 2015 was  after-tax  expense of
$100 million, $92 million and $21 million, respectively, representing the amortization of this basis difference on currently producing licenses.  
  FCCL     FCCL Partnership, a Canadian upstream 50/50 general
partnership with Cenovus Energy Inc., produces bitumen in the Athabasca oil sands in northeastern Alberta and sells the bitumen blend. Cenovus is the operator and managing partner of FCCL.  
 On May 17, 2017, we completed the sale of our 50 percent nonoperated interest in the FCCL Partnership, as well as the majority of our western Canada
gas assets to Cenovus Energy. Financial information presented within this footnote includes our historical interest up to the date of sale. For additional information on the Canada disposition and our investment in Cenovus Energy, see Note
4 Assets Held for Sale, Sold or Acquired and Note 6 Investment in Cenovus Energy.     QG3   
 QG3 is a joint venture that owns an integrated large-scale LNG project located in Qatar. We provided project financing, with a current outstanding balance of
$581 million as described below under  Loans and Long-Term Receivables.  At December 31, 2017, the book value of our equity method investment in QG3, excluding the project financing, was $886 million. We have terminal and
pipeline use agreements with Golden Pass LNG Terminal and affiliated Golden Pass Pipeline near Sabine Pass, Texas, in which we have a 12.4 percent interest, intended to provide us with terminal and pipeline capacity for the receipt, storage and
regasification of LNG purchased from QG3. However, currently the LNG from QG3 is being sold to markets outside of the United States.     Loans and
Long-Term Receivables     As part of our normal ongoing business operations and consistent with industry practice, we enter into numerous agreements with
other parties to pursue business opportunities. Included in such activity are loans and long-term receivables to certain affiliated and  non-affiliated  companies. Loans are recorded when cash is transferred or
seller financing is provided to the affiliated or  non-affiliated  company pursuant to a loan agreement. The loan balance will increase as interest is earned on the outstanding loan balance and will decrease as
interest and principal payments are received. Interest is earned at the loan agreement s stated interest rate. Loans and long-term receivables are assessed for impairment when events indicate the loan balance may not be fully recovered.  
 At December 31, 2017, significant loans to affiliated companies include $581 million in project financing to QG3. We own a 30 percent interest
in QG3, for which we use the equity method of accounting. The other participants in the project are affiliates of Qatar Petroleum and Mitsui. QG3 secured project financing of $4.0 billion in December 2005, consisting of $1.3 billion of
loans from export credit agencies (ECA), $1.5 billion from commercial banks, and $1.2 billion from ConocoPhillips. The ConocoPhillips loan facilities have substantially the same terms as the ECA and commercial bank facilities. On
December 15, 2011, QG3 achieved financial completion and all project loan facilities became nonrecourse to the project participants. Semi-annual repayments began in January 2011 and will extend through July 2022.  
 The long-term portion of these loans is included in the  Loans and advances related parties  line on our consolidated balance sheet, while the
short-term portion is in  Accounts and notes receivable related parties.   
      94  

Table of Contents  

   Note 6 Investment in Cenovus Energy   
 On May 17, 2017, we completed the sale of our 50 percent nonoperated interest in the FCCL Partnership, as well as the majority of our western Canada
gas assets to Cenovus Energy. Consideration for the transaction included 208 million Cenovus Energy common shares, which approximated 16.9 percent of issued and outstanding Cenovus common shares at closing. See Note 4 Assets Held for
Sale, Sold or Acquired, for additional information on the Canada disposition.    At closing, the fair value and cost basis of our investment in
208 million Cenovus Energy common shares was $1.96 billion based on a price of $9.41 per share on the New York Stock Exchange.    We have
classified our investment as an   available-for-sale   equity security on our consolidated balance sheet and, as of December 31, 2017, our investment is carried at fair
value of $1.90 billion, reflecting the closing price of Cenovus Energy shares on the New York Stock Exchange of $9.13 per share. The carrying value reflects a  before-tax  and
 after-tax  unrealized loss of $58 million over our cost basis of $1.96 billion. The unrealized loss is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. See Note 14 Fair Value
Measurement, for additional information. We intend to decrease our investment over time through market transactions, private agreements or otherwise.  
  Note 7 Suspended Wells and Other Exploration Expenses  
 The following table reflects the net changes in suspended exploratory well costs during 2017, 2016 and 2015:  
   
   The following table provides an aging of suspended well balances at December 31:  

95  

Table of Contents  

  The following table provides a further aging of those exploratory well costs that have been capitalized for more
than one year since the completion of drilling as of December 31, 2017:      
    (1)Additional appraisal wells planned.   
  (2)Appraisal drilling complete; costs being incurred to assess development.   
 In line with our July 2015 announcement of plans to reduce future deepwater exploration spending, we recognized
 before-tax  cancellation costs of $335 million and wrote off $48 million of  before-tax  capitalized rig costs in relation to the termination of our Gulf of
Mexico deepwater drillship contract with Ensco in the Lower 48 segment in 2015. In July 2016, we entered into an agreement to terminate our final Gulf of Mexico deepwater drillship contract. The drillship, used to drill our operated deepwater well
inventory in the Gulf of Mexico through April 2016, was contracted on a shared, three-year term. Accordingly, we recorded  before-tax  rig cancellation charges and third-party costs of $146 million in our
Lower 48 segment in 2016.    In February 2017, we reached a settlement agreement on our contract for the Athena drilling rig, initially secured for our
four-well commitment program in Angola. As a result of the cancellation, we recognized a  before-tax  charge of $43 million net in the first quarter of 2017. These charges are included in the
 Exploration expenses  line on our consolidated income statement.     Note 8 Impairments   
 During 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recognized the following  before-tax  impairment charges:  

96  

Table of Contents  

    2017    
 In Alaska, we recorded impairments of $180 million primarily for the associated PP E carrying value of our small interest in the Point Thomson unit.
   In the Lower 48, we recorded impairments of $3,969 million primarily due to certain developed properties which were written down to fair value less
costs to sell. See Note 4 Assets Held for Sale, Sold or Acquired, for additional information on our dispositions.    In Canada, we recorded impairments
of $22 million primarily due to cancelled projects.    In Europe and North Africa, we recorded impairments of $46 million primarily due to reduced
volume forecasts for a field in the United Kingdom and restructured ownership and a change in commercial premises for a gas processing plant in Norway, partly offset by decreased ARO estimates on fields at or nearing the end of life which were
impaired in prior years.    In Asia Pacific and Middle East, we recorded impairments of $2,384 million, including the impairment of our APLNG
investment. For more information, see the  APLNG  section of Note 5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables.    The charges discussed
below, within this section, are included in the  Exploration expenses  line on our consolidated income statement and are not reflected in the table above.  
 In our Lower 48 segment, we recorded a  before-tax  impairment of $51 million for the associated carrying value of
capitalized undeveloped leasehold costs of Shenandoah in deepwater Gulf of Mexico following the suspension of appraisal activity by the operator. Additionally, we recorded a $38 million  before-tax 
impairment for mineral assets primarily due to plan of development changes.      2016    
 In the Lower 48, we recorded impairments of $149 million primarily due to cancelled projects associated with plan of development changes for Eagle Ford
infrastructure, as well as lower natural gas prices and increased ARO estimates.    In Canada, we recorded impairments of $88 million mainly due to
plan of development changes, as well as certain developed properties being written down to fair value less costs to sell.    In Europe and North Africa, we
recorded a credit to impairment of $160 million, primarily in the United Kingdom, due to decreased ARO estimates on fields at or nearing the end of life which were impaired in prior years, partly offset by asset impairments due to lower natural
gas prices in the United Kingdom.    In Asia Pacific and Middle East, we recorded impairments of $44 million, mainly due to a write-down to fair value
less costs to sell of our developed properties in Block B, offshore Indonesia, in the third quarter of 2016.    In Corporate, we recorded impairments of
$17 million due to cancelled projects in our Houston and Bartlesville offices.    The charges discussed below, within this section, are included in the
 Exploration expenses  line on our consolidated income statement and are not reflected in the table above.    Charges recorded in exploration
expenses in 2016 were related to our decision announced in 2015 to reduce deepwater exploration spending.  
      97  

Table of Contents  

  In our Lower 48 segment, we recorded a $203 million  before-tax 
impairment for the associated carrying value of our Gibson and Tiber undeveloped leaseholds in deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Additionally, we recorded a $95 million  before-tax  impairment for the associated
carrying value of capitalized undeveloped leasehold costs of the Melmar prospect and a $79 million  before-tax  impairment, primarily as a result of changes in the estimated market value following the
completion of marketing efforts.    In our Canada segment, we recorded  before-tax  unproved property impairments of
$31 million, primarily due to decisions to discontinue additional testing of undeveloped leaseholds.      2015    
 See the  APLNG  section of Note 5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, for information on the impairment of our APLNG investment
included within the Asia Pacific and Middle East segment.    In Europe and North Africa, we recorded impairments of $724 million, primarily in the
United Kingdom as a result of lower natural gas prices and increases to AROs.    The charges discussed below, within this section, are included in the
 Exploration expenses  line on our consolidated income statement and are not reflected in the table above.    In our Other International segment,
we decided not to pursue further evaluation of our Block 36 and Block 37 leases in Angola due to lack of commerciality of wells. Accordingly, we recorded  before-tax  impairments of $377 million and
$116 million, respectively, for the associated carrying values of capitalized undeveloped leasehold costs.    In our Lower 48 segment, we decided not
to conduct further activity on certain Gulf of Mexico leases, given our strategic plans to reduce deepwater exploration spending, and accordingly recorded  before-tax  impairments of $399 million for the
associated carrying value of certain capitalized undeveloped leasehold costs.    In our Asia Pacific and Middle East segment, we decided to relinquish our
Palangkaraya PSC in Indonesia. Accordingly, we recorded a  before-tax  impairment of $105 million for the associated carrying values of capitalized undeveloped leasehold cost.  
 In our Alaska segment, we recorded a  before-tax  impairment of $575 million for the associated carrying value of
capitalized undeveloped leasehold cost in the Chukchi Sea in Alaska.    In our Canada segment, we recorded a
 before-tax  impairment of $102 million for the Duvernay, Thornbury, Saleski and Crow Lake areas driven primarily by the lack of commerciality of wells.  
  Note 9 Asset Retirement Obligations and Accrued Environmental Costs   
 Asset retirement obligations and accrued environmental costs at December 31 were:  
   
    *Classified as a current liability on the balance sheet under  Other accruals.    
      98  

Table of Contents  

   Asset Retirement Obligations   
 We record the fair value of a liability for an ARO when it is incurred (typically when the asset is installed at the production location). When the liability
is initially recorded, we capitalize the associated asset retirement cost by increasing the carrying amount of the related PP E. If, in subsequent periods, our estimate of this liability changes, we will record an adjustment to both the
liability and PP E. Over time, the liability increases for the change in its present value, while the capitalized cost depreciates over the useful life of the related asset.  
 We have numerous AROs we are required to perform under law or contract once an asset is permanently taken out of service. Most of these obligations are not
expected to be paid until several years, or decades, in the future and will be funded from general company resources at the time of removal. Our largest individual obligations involve plugging and abandonment of wells and removal and disposal of
offshore oil and gas platforms around the world, as well as oil and gas production facilities and pipelines in Alaska.    During 2017 and 2016, our overall
ARO changed as follows:      
    Accrued Environmental Costs   
 Total accrued environmental costs at December 31, 2017 and 2016, were $180 million and $247 million, respectively.  
 We had accrued environmental costs of $105 million and $183 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, related to remediation
activities in the United States and Canada. We had also accrued in Corporate and Other $60 million and $51 million of environmental costs associated with sites no longer in operation at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In
addition, $15 million and $13 million were included at both December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, where the company has been named a potentially responsible party under the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, or similar state laws. Accrued environmental liabilities are expected to be paid over periods extending up to 30 years.  
 Expected expenditures for environmental obligations acquired in various business combinations are discounted using a weighted-average 5 percent discount
factor, resulting in an accrued balance for acquired environmental liabilities of $96 million at December 31, 2017. The expected future undiscounted payments related to the portion of the accrued environmental costs that have been
discounted are: $12 million in 2018, $10 million in 2019, $5 million in 2020, $10 million in 2021, $3 million in 2022, and $106 million for all future years after 2022.  
      99  

Table of Contents  

   Note 10 Debt  
 Long-term debt at December 31 was:  
 
      100  

Table of Contents  

  Maturities of long-term borrowings, inclusive of net unamortized premiums and discounts, in 2018 through 2022
are: $2,575 million, $113 million, $97 million, $236 million and $1,602 million, respectively.    We have a revolving credit
facility totaling $6.75 billion, expiring in June 2019. Our revolving credit facility may be used for direct bank borrowings, the issuance of letters of credit totaling up to $500 million, or as support for our commercial paper programs.
The revolving credit facility is broadly syndicated among financial institutions and does not contain any material adverse change provisions or any covenants requiring maintenance of specified financial ratios or credit ratings. The facility
agreement contains a cross-default provision relating to the failure to pay principal or interest on other debt obligations of $200 million or more by ConocoPhillips, or any of its consolidated subsidiaries.  
 Credit facility borrowings may bear interest at a margin above rates offered by certain designated banks in the London interbank market or at a margin above
the overnight federal funds rate or prime rates offered by certain designated banks in the United States. The agreement calls for commitment fees on available, but unused, amounts. The agreement also contains early termination rights if our current
directors or their approved successors cease to be a majority of the Board of Directors.    We have two commercial paper programs. The ConocoPhillips
$6.25 billion commercial paper program is available to fund short-term working capital needs. We also have the ConocoPhillips Qatar Funding Ltd. $500 million commercial paper program, which is used to fund commitments relating to QG3.
Commercial paper maturities are generally limited to 90 days. We had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2017 or 2016, under either the ConocoPhillips or the ConocoPhillips Qatar Funding Ltd. commercial paper program. We had no
direct borrowings or letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility. Since we had no commercial paper outstanding and had issued no letters of credit, we had access to $6.75 billion in borrowing capacity under our revolving credit
facility at December 31, 2017.    In 2017, two notes totaling $1,001 million were paid at maturity, including the $1.0 billion 1.05% Notes
due 2017. Also in 2017, we prepaid the $1,450 million term loan facility due in 2019.    We also redeemed a total $5.0 billion of debt, described
below, incurring $301 million in premiums above book value, which are reported in the  Other expense  line on our consolidated income statement.      

In the fourth
quarter of 2017, we gave notice to redeem the following debt instruments totaling $2.25 billion.      

The prepayments occurred on January 22, 2018,
and we incurred premiums above book value of $75 million.    At both December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had $283 million of certain variable rate
demand bonds (VRDBs) outstanding with maturities ranging through 2035. The VRDBs are redeemable at the option of the bondholders on any business day. The VRDBs are included in the  Long-term debt  line on our consolidated balance sheet.
   During 2013, a lease of a semi-submersible floating production system (FPS) commenced for the Gumusut development, located in Malaysia, in which we are a
 co-venturer.  The FPS lease provides for an initial  
      101  

Table of Contents  

noncancelable term of 15 years, a subsequent  5-year  cancelable term with no required lease payments, and an additional
 5-year  term with terms and conditions to be agreed at a later date. The lease has no ongoing purchase options or escalation clauses. Adjustments to provisional contingent rental payments may occur due to the
finalization of actual commissioning costs. The lease does not impose any significant restrictions concerning dividends, debt or further leasing activities.  
 A capital lease asset and capital lease obligation were recognized for our proportionate interest in the FPS of $906 million, based on the present value
of the future minimum lease payments using our  before-tax  incremental borrowing rate of 3.58 percent for debt with similar terms. Our proportionate interest in the FPS is 29 percent as of
December 31, 2017. The net carrying value of the capital lease asset was approximately $434 million and $540 million as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The capital lease asset is being depreciated over a period
consistent with the estimated proved reserves of Gumusut using the   unit-of-production   method with the associated depreciation included in the  Depreciation,
depletion and amortization  line on our consolidated income statement. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, accumulated depreciation of the capital lease asset amounted to approximately $381 million and $268 million, respectively.
   At December 31, 2017, future minimum payments due under capital leases were:  
   
    Note 11 Guarantees   
 At December 31, 2017, we were liable for certain contingent obligations under various contractual arrangements as described below. We recognize a
liability, at inception, for the fair value of our obligation as a guarantor for newly issued or modified guarantees. Unless the carrying amount of the liability is noted below, we have not recognized a liability because the fair value of the
obligation is immaterial. In addition, unless otherwise stated, we are not currently performing with any significance under the guarantee and expect future performance to be either immaterial or have only a remote chance of occurrence.  
  APLNG Guarantees     At December 31, 2017, we had
outstanding multiple guarantees in connection with our 37.5 percent ownership interest in APLNG. The following is a description of the guarantees with values calculated utilizing December 2017 exchange rates:  

We guaranteed APLNG s performance with regard to a construction contract executed in connection with APLNG s issuance of the Train 1 and Train 2 Notices to Proceed. Our maximum potential amount of future
payments related to this guarantee became immaterial in the second quarter of 2017.        

We issued a construction completion guarantee related to the third-party project financing secured by APLNG. In October 2016, we reached financial completion for Train 1, releasing a portion of our guarantee. In August
2017, the  two-train  project finance lenders  test was completed, releasing the remaining guarantee.    
      102  

Table of Contents  

During the third quarter of 2016, we issued a guarantee to facilitate the withdrawal of our  pro-rata  portion of the funds in a project finance reserve account. We estimate the
remaining term of this guarantee is 12 years. Our maximum exposure under this guarantee is approximately $200 million and may become payable if an enforcement action is commenced by the project finance lenders against APLNG. At
December 31, 2017, the carrying value of this guarantee is approximately $14 million.        

In conjunction with our original purchase of an ownership interest in APLNG from Origin Energy in October 2008, we agreed to reimburse Origin Energy for our share of the existing contingent liability arising under
guarantees of an existing obligation of APLNG to deliver natural gas under several sales agreements with remaining terms of up to 24 years. Our maximum potential liability for future payments, or cost of volume delivery, under these guarantees is
estimated to be $960 million ($1.71 billion in the event of intentional or reckless breach) and would become payable if APLNG fails to meet its obligations under these agreements and the obligations cannot otherwise be mitigated. Future
payments are considered unlikely, as the payments, or cost of volume delivery, would only be triggered if APLNG does not have enough natural gas to meet these sales commitments and if the  co-venturers  do not
make necessary equity contributions into APLNG.        

We have guaranteed the performance of APLNG with regard to certain other contracts executed in connection with the project s continued development. The guarantees have remaining terms of up to 28 years or the
life of the venture. Our maximum potential amount of future payments related to these guarantees is approximately $150 million and would become payable if APLNG does not perform.    
  Other Guarantees     We have other guarantees with maximum
future potential payment amounts totaling approximately $780 million, which consist primarily of guarantees of the residual value of leased office buildings, guarantees of the residual value of leased corporate aircraft, and a guarantee for our
portion of a joint venture s project finance reserve accounts. These guarantees have remaining terms of up to 5 years and would become payable if, upon sale, certain asset values are lower than guaranteed amounts, business conditions decline at
guaranteed entities, or as a result of nonperformance of contractual terms by guaranteed parties.     Indemnifications   
 Over the years, we have entered into agreements to sell ownership interests in certain corporations, joint ventures and assets that gave rise to qualifying
indemnifications. These agreements include indemnifications for taxes, environmental liabilities, employee claims and litigation. The terms of these indemnifications vary greatly. The majority of these indemnifications are related to environmental
issues, the term is generally indefinite and the maximum amount of future payments is generally unlimited. The carrying amount recorded for these indemnifications at December 31, 2017, was approximately $100 million. We amortize the
indemnification liability over the relevant time period, if one exists, based on the facts and circumstances surrounding each type of indemnity. In cases where the indemnification term is indefinite, we will reverse the liability when we have
information the liability is essentially relieved or amortize the liability over an appropriate time period as the fair value of our indemnification exposure declines. Although it is reasonably possible future payments may exceed amounts recorded,
due to the nature of the indemnifications, it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments. Included in the recorded carrying amount at December 31, 2017, were approximately $40 million
of environmental accruals for known contamination that are included in the  Asset retirement obligations and accrued environmental costs  line on our consolidated balance sheet. For additional information about environmental liabilities,
see Note 12 Contingencies and Commitments.    In 2012, we completed the separation of our downstream business, creating two independent energy
companies: ConocoPhillips and Phillips 66. On March 1, 2015, a supplier to one of the refineries included in Phillips 66 as part of the separation of our downstream business formally registered Phillips 66 as a party to the supply agreement,
thereby triggering a guarantee we provided at the time of separation. Our maximum potential liability for future payments under this guarantee, which would become payable if Phillips 66 does not perform its contractual obligations under the supply
agreement, is approximately $1.31 billion. At  
      103  

Table of Contents  

  December 31, 2017, the carrying value of this guarantee is approximately $98 million and the remaining
term is seven years. Because Phillips 66 has indemnified us for losses incurred under this guarantee, we have recorded an indemnification asset from Phillips 66 of approximately $98 million. The recorded indemnification asset amount represents
the estimated fair value of the guarantee; however, if we are required to perform under the guarantee, we would expect to recover from Phillips 66 any amounts in excess of that value, provided Phillips 66 is a going concern.  
  Note 12 Contingencies and Commitments     A number of
lawsuits involving a variety of claims arising in the ordinary course of business have been filed against ConocoPhillips. We also may be required to remove or mitigate the effects on the environment of the placement, storage, disposal or release of
certain chemical, mineral and petroleum substances at various active and inactive sites. We regularly assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these contingencies. In the case of all known contingencies (other than those related
to income taxes), we accrue a liability when the loss is probable and the amount is reasonably estimable. If a range of amounts can be reasonably estimated and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, then the minimum
of the range is accrued. We do not reduce these liabilities for potential insurance or third-party recoveries. If applicable, we accrue receivables for probable insurance or other third-party recoveries. With respect to income  tax-related  contingencies, we use a cumulative probability-weighted loss accrual in cases where sustaining a tax position is less than certain. See Note 18 Income Taxes, for additional information about income  tax-related  contingencies.    Based on currently available information, we believe it is remote that future costs related
to known contingent liability exposures will exceed current accruals by an amount that would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. As we learn new facts concerning contingencies, we reassess our position both with
respect to accrued liabilities and other potential exposures. Estimates particularly sensitive to future changes include contingent liabilities recorded for environmental remediation, tax and legal matters. Estimated future environmental remediation
costs are subject to change due to such factors as the uncertain magnitude of cleanup costs, the unknown time and extent of such remedial actions that may be required, and the determination of our liability in proportion to that of other responsible
parties. Estimated future costs related to tax and legal matters are subject to change as events evolve and as additional information becomes available during the administrative and litigation processes.  
  Environmental     We are subject to international, federal,
state and local environmental laws and regulations. When we prepare our consolidated financial statements, we record accruals for environmental liabilities based on management s best estimates, using all information that is available at the
time. We measure estimates and base liabilities on currently available facts, existing technology, and presently enacted laws and regulations, taking into account stakeholder and business considerations. When measuring environmental liabilities, we
also consider our prior experience in remediation of contaminated sites, other companies  cleanup experience, and data released by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or other organizations. We consider unasserted claims in our
determination of environmental liabilities, and we accrue them in the period they are both probable and reasonably estimable.    Although liability of those
potentially responsible for environmental remediation costs is generally joint and several for federal sites and frequently so for other sites, we are usually only one of many companies cited at a particular site. Due to the joint and several
liabilities, we could be responsible for all cleanup costs related to any site at which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party. We have been successful to date in sharing cleanup costs with other financially sound companies. Many
of the sites at which we are potentially responsible are still under investigation by the EPA or the agency concerned. Prior to actual cleanup, those potentially responsible normally assess the site conditions, apportion responsibility and determine
the appropriate remediation. In some instances, we may have no liability or may attain a settlement of liability. Where it appears that other potentially responsible parties may be financially unable to bear their proportional share, we consider
this inability in estimating our potential liability, and we adjust our accruals accordingly.  
      104  

Table of Contents  

As a result of various acquisitions in the past, we assumed certain environmental obligations. Some of these environmental obligations are mitigated by indemnifications made by others for our
benefit, and some of the indemnifications are subject to dollar limits and time limits.    We are currently participating in environmental assessments and
cleanups at numerous federal Superfund and comparable state and international sites. After an assessment of environmental exposures for cleanup and other costs, we make accruals on an undiscounted basis (except those acquired in a purchase business
combination, which we record on a discounted basis) for planned investigation and remediation activities for sites where it is probable future costs will be incurred and these costs can be reasonably estimated. We have not reduced these accruals for
possible insurance recoveries. In the future, we may be involved in additional environmental assessments, cleanups and proceedings. See Note 9 Asset Retirement Obligations and Accrued Environmental Costs, for a summary of our accrued
environmental liabilities.     Legal Proceedings     We are
subject to various lawsuits and claims including but not limited to matters involving oil and gas royalty and severance tax payments, gas measurement and valuation methods, contract disputes, environmental damages, personal injury, and property
damage. Our primary exposures for such matters relate to alleged royalty and tax underpayments on certain federal, state and privately owned properties and claims of alleged environmental contamination from historic operations. We will continue to
defend ourselves vigorously in these matters.    Our legal organization applies its knowledge, experience and professional judgment to the specific
characteristics of our cases, employing a litigation management process to manage and monitor the legal proceedings against us. Our process facilitates the early evaluation and quantification of potential exposures in individual cases. This process
also enables us to track those cases that have been scheduled for trial and/or mediation. Based on professional judgment and experience in using these litigation management tools and available information about current developments in all our cases,
our legal organization regularly assesses the adequacy of current accruals and determines if adjustment of existing accruals, or establishment of new accruals, is required.  
  Other Contingencies     We have contingent liabilities
resulting from throughput agreements with pipeline and processing companies not associated with financing arrangements. Under these agreements, we may be required to provide any such company with additional funds through advances and penalties for
fees related to throughput capacity not utilized. In addition, at December 31, 2017, we had performance obligations secured by letters of credit of $338 million (issued as direct bank letters of credit) related to various purchase
commitments for materials, supplies, commercial activities and services incident to the ordinary conduct of business.    In 2007, we announced we had been
unable to reach agreement with respect to our migration to an  empresa mixta  structure mandated by the Venezuelan government s Nationalization Decree. As a result, Venezuela s national oil company, Petr leos de Venezuela S.A.
(PDVSA), or its affiliates, directly assumed control over ConocoPhillips  interests in the Petrozuata and Hamaca heavy oil ventures and the offshore Corocoro development project. In response to this expropriation, we filed a request for
international arbitration on November 2, 2007, with the World Bank s International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). An arbitration hearing was held before an ICSID tribunal during the summer of 2010. On
September 3, 2013, an ICSID arbitration tribunal held that Venezuela unlawfully expropriated ConocoPhillips  significant oil investments in June 2007. On January 17, 2017, the Tribunal reconfirmed the decision that the expropriation
was unlawful. A separate arbitration phase is currently proceeding to determine the damages owed to ConocoPhillips for Venezuela s actions. Separate arbitrations for contractual compensation against PDVSA are also pending before an
International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) arbitration tribunal. In addition, ConocoPhillips brought fraudulent transfer actions in the U.S. District Court of Delaware, alleging that PDVSA has taken actions to improperly expatriate assets from the
United States to Venezuela in an effort to avoid judgment creditors.  
      105  

Table of Contents  

  In 2008, Burlington Resources, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of ConocoPhillips, initiated arbitration before
ICSID against The Republic of Ecuador challenging a windfall profits tax and subsequent expropriation of Blocks 7 and 21. On April 24, 2012, Ecuador filed environmental and infrastructure counterclaims against Burlington relating to alleged
impacts to Blocks 7 and 21. Ecuador also filed the environmental and infrastructure counterclaims relating to Blocks 7 and 21 in a separate, parallel ICSID arbitration brought by Perenco Ecuador Limited, Burlington s  co-venturer  and consortium operator. Perenco and Burlington each have joint liability for the counterclaims under their joint operating agreements. On December 14, 2012, the ICSID tribunal issued a
decision in favor of Burlington, finding that Ecuador s seizure of Blocks 7 and 21 was an unlawful expropriation in violation of the  Ecuador-U.S.  Bilateral Investment Treaty. In February 2017, the
ICSID tribunal unanimously awarded Burlington $380 million for Ecuador s unlawful expropriation and breach of the U.S.-Ecuador bilateral investment treaty. The tribunal also issued a separate decision finding Ecuador to be entitled to
$42 million for environmental and infrastructure impacts to Blocks 7 and 21. In December 2017, Burlington and Ecuador entered into a settlement agreement by which Ecuador agreed to pay Burlington $337 million in two
installments. The first installment of $75 million was timely paid on December 1, 2017. The second installment of $262 million is to be paid by April 2018. The settlement includes an offset for the counterclaims
decision, of which Burlington is entitled to a $24 million contribution from Perenco pursuant to the joint operating agreement. The ICSID arbitration between Perenco and Ecuador remains pending.  
 In December 2016, ConocoPhillips Angola filed a notice of arbitration against Sonangol E.P. under the Block 36 Production Sharing Contract relating to
disputes arising thereunder. The arbitration is being conducted under the United Nations Commission on International Trade Laws (UNCITRAL) rules using a three-person tribunal.  
 In June 2017, FAR Ltd. initiated arbitration before the ICC against ConocoPhillips Senegal B.V. in connection with the sale of ConocoPhillips Senegal B.V. to
Woodside Energy Holdings (Senegal) Limited in 2016. The arbitral tribunal is in the process of being constituted.    In 2017 and early 2018, cities
and/or counties in California and New York have filed lawsuits against oil and gas companies, including ConocoPhillips, seeking compensatory damages and equitable relief to abate alleged climate change impacts. ConocoPhillips will be vigorously
defending against these lawsuits.     Long-Term Throughput Agreements and
  Take-or-Pay   Agreements     We have certain throughput agreements and   take-or-pay   agreements in support of financing arrangements. The agreements typically provide for natural gas or crude oil transportation to be used in the ordinary course of
the company s business. The aggregate amounts of estimated payments under these various agreements are: 2018 $21 million; 2019 $7 million; 2020 $7 million; 2021 $7 million; 2022 $7 million; and
2023 and after $74 million. Total payments under the agreements were $43 million in 2017, $42 million in 2016 and $27 million in 2015.  
  Note 13 Derivative and Financial Instruments     We
use futures, forwards, swaps and options in various markets to meet our customer needs and capture market opportunities. Our commodity business primarily consists of natural gas, crude oil, bitumen, LNG and natural gas liquids.  
 Our derivative instruments are held at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet. Where these balances have the right of setoff, they are presented on a
net basis. Related cash flows are recorded as operating activities on our consolidated statement of cash flows. On our consolidated income statement, realized and unrealized gains and losses are recognized either on a gross basis if directly related
to our physical business or a net basis if held for trading. Gains and losses related to contracts that meet and are designated with the normal purchase normal sale exception are recognized upon settlement. We generally apply this exception to
eligible crude contracts. We do not use hedge accounting for our commodity derivatives.  
      106  

Table of Contents  

  The following table presents the gross fair values of our commodity derivatives, excluding collateral, and the
line items where they appear on our consolidated balance sheet:      
   The gains (losses) from commodity derivatives incurred, and the line items where they appear on our consolidated income
statement were:      
   The table below summarizes our material net exposures resulting from outstanding commodity derivative contracts:  
   
    Foreign Currency Exchange Derivatives   
 We have foreign currency exchange rate risk resulting from international operations. Our foreign currency exchange derivative activity primarily relates to
managing our cash-related foreign currency exchange rate exposures, such as firm commitments for capital programs or local currency tax payments, dividends and cash returns from net investments in foreign affiliates, and investments in   available-for-sale   securities. We do not elect hedge accounting on our foreign currency exchange derivatives.  
      107  

Table of Contents  

  The following table presents the gross fair values of our foreign currency exchange derivatives, excluding
collateral, and the line items where they appear on our consolidated balance sheet:      
   In December 2017, we entered into foreign exchange zero cost collars buying the right to sell $1.25 billion CAD at $0.707
CAD and selling the right to buy $1.25 billion CAD at $0.842 CAD against the U.S. dollar.    The (gains) losses from foreign currency exchange
derivatives incurred and the line item where they appear on our consolidated income statement were:      
   We had the following net notional position of outstanding foreign currency exchange derivatives:  
   
    (1)Primarily Canadian dollar.   
  (2)Primarily British pound.      (3)Primarily Canadian
dollar.      (4)Primarily euro and Norwegian krone.   
  Financial Instruments     We invest excess cash in financial
instruments with maturities based on our cash forecasts for the various currency pools we manage. The maturities of these investments may from time to time extend beyond 90 days. The types of financial instruments that we currently
invest include:      

Time deposits: Interest bearing deposits placed with approved financial institutions.    

Commercial paper: Unsecured promissory notes issued by a corporation, commercial bank or government agency purchased at a discount to mature at par.    
 These financial instruments appear in the  Cash and cash equivalents  line of our consolidated balance sheet if the maturities at the time we made
the investments were 90 days or less; otherwise, these financial instruments are included in the  Short-term investments  line on our consolidated balance sheet.  
      108  

Table of Contents  

Credit Risk     Financial
instruments potentially exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents, short-term investments,   over-the-counter   (OTC) derivative
contracts and trade receivables. Our cash equivalents and short-term investments are placed in high-quality commercial paper, government money market funds, government debt securities and time deposits with major international banks and financial
institutions.    The credit risk from our OTC derivative contracts, such as forwards, swaps and options, derives from the counterparty to the transaction.
Individual counterparty exposure is managed within predetermined credit limits and includes the use of cash-call margins when appropriate, thereby reducing the risk of significant nonperformance. We also use futures, swaps and option contracts that
have a negligible credit risk because these trades are cleared with an exchange clearinghouse and subject to mandatory margin requirements until settled; however, we are exposed to the credit risk of those exchange brokers for receivables arising
from daily margin cash calls, as well as for cash deposited to meet initial margin requirements.    Our trade receivables result primarily from our
petroleum operations and reflect a broad national and international customer base, which limits our exposure to concentrations of credit risk. The majority of these receivables have payment terms of 30 days or less, and we continually monitor this
exposure and the creditworthiness of the counterparties. We do not generally require collateral to limit the exposure to loss; however, we will sometimes use letters of credit, prepayments and master netting arrangements to mitigate credit risk with
counterparties that both buy from and sell to us, as these agreements permit the amounts owed by us or owed to others to be offset against amounts due to us.  
 Certain of our derivative instruments contain provisions that require us to post collateral if the derivative exposure exceeds a threshold amount. We have
contracts with fixed threshold amounts and other contracts with variable threshold amounts that are contingent on our credit rating. The variable threshold amounts typically decline for lower credit ratings, while both the variable and fixed
threshold amounts typically revert to zero if we fall below investment grade. Cash is the primary collateral in all contracts; however, many also permit us to post letters of credit as collateral, such as transactions administered through the New
York Mercantile Exchange.    The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with such credit risk-related contingent features that were in a
liability position on December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, was $55 million and $42 million, respectively. For these instruments, no collateral was posted as of December 31, 2017, or December 31, 2016. If our credit
rating had been downgraded below investment grade on December 31, 2017, we would be required to post $55 million of additional collateral, either with cash or letters of credit.  
      109  

Table of Contents  

   Note 14 Fair Value Measurement   
 We carry a portion of our assets and liabilities at fair value that are measured at a reporting date using an exit price (i.e., the price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability) and disclosed according to the quality of valuation inputs under the following hierarchy:      

Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in an active market for identical assets or liabilities.    

Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are directly or indirectly observable.    

Level 3: Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value of assets or liabilities.      The
classification of an asset or liability is based on the lowest level of input significant to its fair value. Those that are initially classified as Level 3 are subsequently reported as Level 2 when the fair value derived from unobservable
inputs is inconsequential to the overall fair value, or if corroborated market data becomes available. Assets and liabilities initially reported as Level 2 are subsequently reported as Level 3 if corroborated market data is no longer
available. Transfers occur at the end of the reporting period. At the end of the fourth quarter of 2017, our $1,899 million investment in Cenovus Energy was transferred from Level 2 to Level 1 due to the lapsing of trading
restrictions. There were no other material transfers in or out of Level 1 during 2017 or 2016.     Recurring Fair Value Measurement   
 Financial assets and liabilities reported at fair value on a recurring basis primarily include commodity derivatives. Level 1 derivative assets and
liabilities primarily represent exchange-traded futures and options that are valued using unadjusted prices available from the underlying exchange. This also includes our investment in common shares of Cenovus Energy, which is valued using quotes
for shares on the New York Stock Exchange. Level 2 derivative assets and liabilities primarily represent OTC swaps, options and forward purchase and sale contracts that are valued using adjusted exchange prices, prices provided by brokers or
pricing service companies that are all corroborated by market data. Level 3 derivative assets and liabilities consist of OTC swaps, options and forward purchase and sale contracts where a significant portion of fair value is calculated from
underlying market data that is not readily available. The derived value uses industry standard methodologies that may consider the historical relationships among various commodities, modeled market prices, time value, volatility factors and other
relevant economic measures. The use of these inputs results in management s best estimate of fair value. Level 3 activity was not material for all periods presented.  
 The following table summarizes the fair value hierarchy for gross financial assets and liabilities (i.e., unadjusted where the right of setoff exists for
commodity derivatives accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis):      
 
      110  

Table of Contents  

  The following table summarizes those commodity derivative balances subject to the right of setoff as presented on
our consolidated balance sheet. We have elected to offset the recognized fair value amounts for multiple derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty in our financial statements when a legal right of offset exists.  
   
   At December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we did not present any amounts gross on our consolidated balance sheet
where we had the right of setoff.      Non-Recurring  Fair Value Measurement   
 The following table summarizes the fair value hierarchy by major category and date of remeasurement for assets accounted for at fair value on a  non-recurring  basis:      
     Net PP E (held for use)    
 Net PP E held for use is comprised of various producing properties impaired to their individual fair values less costs to sell. The fair values were
determined by internal discounted cash flow models using estimates of future production, prices from futures exchanges and pricing service companies, costs, and a discount rate believed to be consistent with those used by principal market
participants.  
      111  

Table of Contents  

    Net PP E (held for sale)    
 Net PP E held for sale was written down to fair value, less costs to sell. The fair value of each asset was determined by its negotiated selling price.
     Equity Method Investments      Certain cost and
equity method investments were determined to have fair values below their carrying amounts, and the impairments were considered to be other than temporary under the guidance of FASB ASC Topic 323. During 2017, this included our investment in APLNG,
which was written down to its fair value of $7,656 million, resulting in a   before-tax-charge   of $2,384 million. For additional information on APLNG, see Note
5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables. During 2016, an investment using Level 1 inputs was written down to fair value, less costs to sell, determined by its negotiated selling price. Investments using Level 3 inputs had fair
values determined primarily by internal discounted cash flow models using estimates of future production, prices from futures exchanges and pricing service companies, costs, and a discount factor believed to be consistent with those used by
principal market participants.     Reported Fair Values of Financial Instruments   
 We used the following methods and assumptions to estimate the fair value of financial instruments:  

Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments: The carrying amount reported on the balance sheet approximates fair value.    

Accounts and notes receivable (including long-term and related parties): The carrying amount reported on the balance sheet approximates fair value. The valuation technique and methods used to estimate the fair value of
the current portion of fixed-rate related party loans is consistent with Loans and advances related parties.    

Investment in Cenovus Energy shares: See Note 6 Investment in Cenovus Energy for a discussion of the carrying value and fair value of our investment in Cenovus Energy shares.    

Loans and advances related parties: The carrying amount of floating-rate loans approximates fair value. The fair value of fixed-rate loan activity is measured using market observable data and is categorized as
Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See Note 5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, for additional information.    

Accounts payable (including related parties) and floating-rate debt: The carrying amount of accounts payable and floating-rate debt reported on the balance sheet approximates fair value.    

Fixed-rate debt: The estimated fair value of fixed-rate debt is measured using prices available from a pricing service that is corroborated by market data; therefore, these liabilities are categorized as Level 2 in
the fair value hierarchy.      The following table summarizes the net fair value of financial instruments (i.e., adjusted where the right of
setoff exists for commodity derivatives):      
 
      112  

Table of Contents  

    Commodity derivatives    
 At December 31, 2017, commodity derivative assets and liabilities appear net with no obligations to return cash collateral and $7 million of rights
to reclaim cash collateral, respectively. At December 31, 2016, commodity derivative assets and liabilities appear net with no obligations to return cash collateral and $12 million of rights to reclaim cash collateral, respectively.  
  Note 15 Equity     Common Stock   
 The changes in our shares of common stock, as categorized in the equity section of the balance sheet, were:  
   
    Preferred Stock     We have
authorized 500 million shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, none of which was issued or outstanding at December 31, 2017 or 2016.  
  Noncontrolling Interests     At December 31, 2017 and
2016, we had $194 million and $252 million outstanding, respectively, of equity in less-than-wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries held by noncontrolling interest owners. For both periods, the amounts were related to the Darwin LNG and
Bayu-Darwin Pipeline operating joint ventures we control.     Repurchase of Common Stock   
 On November 10, 2016, we announced plans to purchase up to $3 billion of our common stock through 2019. On March 29, 2017, we announced plans to
double our share repurchase program to $6 billion of common stock through 2019, with $3 billion allocated and purchased in 2017, and the remainder allocated evenly to 2018 and 2019. On February 1, 2018, we announced the acceleration
of our previously stated 2018 share repurchases from $1.5 billion to $2.0 billion, with the remaining balance to be repurchased in 2019. Repurchase of shares began in November 2016, and totaled 66,081,361 shares at a cost of
$3,126 million, through December 31, 2017.  
      113  

Table of Contents  

   Note  16 Non-Mineral  Leases   
 The company primarily leases drilling equipment and office buildings, as well as ocean transport vessels, tugboats, barges, corporate aircraft, computers and
other facilities and equipment. Certain leases include escalation clauses for adjusting rental payments to reflect changes in price indices, as well as renewal options and/or options to purchase the leased property for the fair market value at the
end of the lease term. There are no significant restrictions imposed on us by the leasing agreements with regard to dividends, asset dispositions or borrowing ability. For additional information on leased assets under capital leases, see Note
10 Debt.    At December 31, 2017, future minimum rental payments due under noncancelable leases were:  
   
   Operating lease rental expense for the years ended December 31 was:  
   
    *Amount updated to reflect additional sublease income in 2016.   
      114  

Table of Contents  

   Note 17 Employee Benefit Plans   
  Pension and Postretirement Plans     An analysis of the
projected benefit obligations for our pension plans and accumulated benefit obligations for our postretirement health and life insurance plans follows:      
 
      115  

Table of Contents  

For both U.S. and international pensions, the overall expected long-term rate of return is developed from the expected future
return of each asset class, weighted by the expected allocation of pension assets to that asset class. We rely on a variety of independent market forecasts in developing the expected rate of return for each class of assets.  
 Included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December 31 were the following  before-tax  amounts
that had not been recognized in net periodic benefit cost:      
 
      116  

Table of Contents  

*Includes settlement losses recognized in 2017 and 2016.   
 During the year ended December 31, 2016, there was an amendment to the U.S. other postretirement benefit plan. The benefit obligation decreased by
$27 million for changes in the plan made to  post-65  retiree medical benefits related to updated cost sharing assumption changes for retirees. The $27 million decrease in the benefit obligation
resulted in a corresponding increase in other comprehensive income.    Included in accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2017, were the
following  before-tax  amounts that are expected to be amortized into net periodic benefit cost during 2018:      

Millions of Dollars 

Pension Benefits 

Other Benefits 

U.S. 

Int l. 

Unrecognized net actuarial (gain) loss  
    
 $ 
         59  

36  

(1) 

Unrecognized prior service credit  

-  

(5) 

(34) 
    
   For our  tax-qualified  pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of
plan assets, the projected benefit obligation, the accumulated benefit obligation, and the fair value of plan assets were $5,634 million, $5,226 million, and $5,113 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017, and
$5,498 million, $5,145 million, and $4,208 million, respectively, at December 31, 2016.    For our unfunded nonqualified key employee
supplemental pension plans, the projected benefit obligation and the accumulated benefit obligation were $578 million and $503 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017, and were $586 million and $496 million,
respectively, at December 31, 2016.  
      117  

Table of Contents  

  The components of net periodic benefit cost of all defined benefit plans are presented in the following table:
     
   We recognized pension settlement losses of $131 million in 2017, $202 million in 2016 and $204 million in 2015
as  lump-sum  benefit payments from certain U.S. and international pension plans exceeded the sum of service and interest costs for those plans and led to recognition of settlement losses.  
 As part of the 2016 and 2015 restructuring programs, we concluded that actions taken during those years resulted in a significant reduction of future services
of active employees primarily in the U.S. qualified pension plan and a U.S. nonqualified supplemental retirement plan. As a result, we recognized an increase in the benefit obligation and a proportionate share of prior service cost from other
comprehensive income (loss) as curtailment losses of $15 million and $33 million during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
 Also as part of the 2016 and 2015 restructuring programs in the U.S. and Europe, we recognized expense for special termination benefits of $15 million
during the year ended December 31, 2016, consisting of $14 million in the U.S. and $1 million in Europe, and $124 million during the year ended December 31, 2015, consisting of $46 million in the U.S. and
$78 million in Europe. Approximately 62 percent of the 2015 Europe amount was recovered from joint venture partners.    In determining net pension
and other postretirement benefit costs, we amortize prior service costs on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of employees expected to receive benefits under the plan. For net actuarial gains and losses, we amortize
10 percent of the unamortized balance each year.    We have multiple nonpension postretirement benefit plans for health and life insurance. The health
care plans are contributory and subject to various cost sharing features, with participant and company contributions adjusted annually; the life insurance plans are noncontributory. The measurement of the U.S.
 pre-65  retiree medical accumulated postretirement benefit obligation assumes a health care cost trend rate of 6.25 percent in 2018 that declines to 5 percent by 2023. The measurement of the U.S.  post-65  retiree medical accumulated postretirement benefit obligation assumes an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5 percent achieved in 2018. A
 one-percentage-point  change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would be immaterial to ConocoPhillips.  
      118  

Table of Contents  

   Plan Assets  We follow a policy of broadly diversifying pension plan assets across asset classes and
individual holdings. As a result, our plan assets have no significant concentrations of credit risk. Asset classes that are considered appropriate include U.S. equities,  non-U.S.  equities, U.S. fixed income,  non-U.S.  fixed income, real estate and private equity investments. Plan fiduciaries may consider and add other asset classes to the investment program from time to time. The target allocations for plan assets are
43 percent equity securities, 50 percent debt securities, 6 percent real estate and 1 percent other. Generally, the plan investments are publicly traded, therefore minimizing liquidity risk in the portfolio.  
 The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for the pension plan assets. There have been no changes in the methodologies used at
December 31, 2017 and 2016.      

Fair values of equity securities and government debt securities categorized in Level 1 are primarily based on quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.    

Fair values of corporate debt securities, agency and mortgage-backed securities and government debt securities categorized in Level 2 are estimated using recently executed transactions and quoted market prices for
similar assets and liabilities in active markets and for identical assets and liabilities in markets that are not active. If there have been no market transactions in a particular fixed income security, its fair value is calculated by pricing models
that benchmark the security against other securities with actual market prices. When observable quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based on pricing models that use something other than actual market prices (e.g., observable inputs
such as benchmark yields, reported trades and issuer spreads for similar securities), and these securities are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.    

Fair values of investments in common/collective trusts are determined by the issuer of each fund based on the fair value of the underlying assets.    

Fair values of mutual funds are based on quoted market prices, which represent the net asset value of shares held.    

Time deposits are valued at cost, which approximates fair value.    

Cash is valued at cost, which approximates fair value. Fair values of international cash equivalents categorized in Level 2 are valued using observable yield curves, discounting and interest rates. U.S. cash
balances held in the form of short-term fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date are categorized as Level 2.    

Fair values of exchange-traded derivatives classified in Level 1 are based on quoted market prices. For other derivatives classified in Level 2, the values are generally calculated from pricing models with
market input parameters from third-party sources.    

Fair values of insurance contracts are valued at the present value of the future benefit payments owed by the insurance company to the plans  participants.    

Fair values of real estate investments are valued using real estate valuation techniques and other methods that include reference to third-party sources and sales comparables where available.    

A portion of U.S. pension plan assets is held as a participating interest in an insurance annuity contract, which is calculated as the market value of investments held under this contract, less the accumulated benefit
obligation covered by the contract. The participating interest is classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy as the fair value is determined via a combination of quoted market prices, recently executed transactions, and an actuarial
present value computation for contract obligations. At December 31, 2017, the participating interest in the annuity contract was valued at $99 million and consisted of $265 million in debt securities, less $166 million for the
accumulated benefit obligation covered by the contract. At December 31, 2016, the participating interest in the annuity contract was valued at $121 million and consisted of $288 million in debt securities, less $167 million for
the accumulated benefit obligation covered by the contract. The net change from 2016 to 2017 is due to a decrease in the fair value of the underlying investments of $23 million offset by a decrease in the present value of the contract
obligation of $1 million. The participating interest is not available for meeting general pension benefit obligations in the near term. No future company contributions are required and no new benefits are being accrued under this insurance
annuity contract.    
      119  

Table of Contents  

  The fair values of our pension plan assets at December 31, by asset class were as follows: 
   
       *In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 715,  Compensation Retirement Benefits,  certain
investments that are to be measured at fair value using the net asset value      per share (or its equivalent) practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value amounts presented in
this table are intended to      permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the amounts presented in the Change in Fair Value of Plan Assets.   
  **Excludes the participating interest in the insurance annuity contract with a net asset value of $99 million and net receivables related to security
transactions of     $14 million.   
      120  

Table of Contents  

  The fair values of our pension plan assets at December 31, by asset class were as follows:  
   
       *In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 715,  Compensation Retirement Benefits,  certain
investments that are to be measured at fair value using the net asset           value per share (or its equivalent) practical
expedient have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value amounts presented in this table are   
       intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the amounts presented in the Change in Fair Value of Plan
Assets.      **Excludes the participating interest in the insurance annuity contract with a net asset value of $121 million and net payables related
to security transactions of     $1 million.     Level 3 activity was not material for all periods.  
 Our funding policy for U.S. plans is to contribute at least the minimum required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Contributions to foreign plans are dependent upon local laws and tax regulations. In 2018, we expect to contribute approximately $80 million to our domestic nonqualified pension and postretirement benefit plans
and $130 million to our international qualified and nonqualified pension and postretirement benefit plans.  
      121  

Table of Contents  

  The following benefit payments, which are exclusive of amounts to be paid from the insurance annuity contract and
which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid:      
    Severance Accrual     As a
result of selling our 50 percent nonoperated interest in the FCCL Partnership and the majority of our western Canada gas assets, as well as our interest in the San Juan Basin, a reduction in our overall employee workforce occurred during 2017.
Severance accruals of $65 million were recorded in 2017. The following table summarizes our severance accrual activity for the year ended December 31, 2017:      
   Of the remaining balance at December 31, 2017, $30 million is classified as short-term.  
  Defined Contribution Plans     Most U.S. employees are
eligible to participate in the ConocoPhillips Savings Plan (CPSP). Employees can deposit up to 75 percent of their eligible pay, subject to statutory limits, in the CPSP to a choice of approximately 34 investment options. Employees who
participate in the CPSP and contribute 1 percent of their eligible pay receive a 6 percent company cash match with a potential company discretionary cash contribution of up to 6 percent. Company contributions charged to expense for
the CPSP and predecessor plans were $51 million in 2017, $58 million in 2016, and $109 million in 2015.    We have several defined
contribution plans for our international employees, each with its own terms and eligibility depending on location. Total compensation expense recognized for these international plans was approximately $35 million in 2017, $44 million in
2016, and $55 million in 2015.     Share-Based Compensation Plans   
 The 2014 Omnibus Stock and Performance Incentive Plan of ConocoPhillips (the Plan) was approved by shareholders in May 2014. Over its  10-year  life, the Plan allows the issuance of up to 79 million shares of our common stock for compensation to our employees and directors; however, as of the effective date of the Plan, (i) any shares of
common stock available for future awards under the prior plans and (ii) any shares of common stock represented by awards granted under the prior plans that are forfeited, expire or are cancelled without delivery of shares of common stock or
which result in the forfeiture of shares of common stock back to the company shall be available for awards under the Plan, and no new awards shall be granted under the prior plans. Of the 79 million shares available for issuance under the Plan,
no more than 40 million shares of common stock are available for incentive stock options. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee  
      122  

Table of Contents  

of our Board of Directors is authorized to determine the types, terms, conditions and limitations of awards granted. Awards may be granted in the form of, but not limited to, stock options,
restricted stock units and performance share units to employees and non-employee directors who contribute to the company s continued success and profitability.  
 Total share-based compensation expense is measured using the grant date fair value for our equity-classified awards and the settlement date fair value for our
liability-classified awards. We recognize share-based compensation expense over the shorter of the service period (i.e., the stated period of time required to earn the award); or the period beginning at the start of the service period and ending
when an employee first becomes eligible for retirement, but not less than six months, as this is the minimum period of time required for an award to not be subject to forfeiture. Our share-based compensation programs generally provide accelerated
vesting (i.e., a waiver of the remaining period of service required to earn an award) for awards held by employees at the time of their retirement. Some of our share-based awards vest ratably (i.e., portions of the award vest at different times)
while some of our awards cliff vest (i.e., all of the award vests at the same time). We recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the service period for the entire award, whether the award was granted with ratable or cliff vesting.  
  Compensation Expense  Total share-based compensation expense recognized in loss and the associated tax benefit for the years ended December 31
were as follows:      
    Stock Options  Stock options granted under the provisions of the Plan and prior plans permit purchase of our common
stock at exercise prices equivalent to the average market price of ConocoPhillips common stock on the date the options were granted. The options have terms of 10 years and generally vest ratably, with
 one-third  of the options awarded vesting and becoming exercisable on each anniversary date following the date of grant. Options awarded to certain employees already eligible for retirement vest within
six months of the grant date, but those options do not become exercisable until the end of the normal vesting period.    The fair market values of the
options granted over the past three years were measured on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. The weighted-average assumptions used were as follows:  
   
   There were no ranges in the assumptions used to determine the fair market values of our options granted over the past three
years.    We believe our historical volatility for periods prior to the 2012 separation of our Downstream businesses is no longer relevant in estimating
expected volatility. For 2015 through 2017, expected volatility was based on the weighted-average blend of the company s historical stock price volatility from May 1, 2012 (the date of separation of our Downstream businesses) through the
stock option grant date and the average historical stock price volatility of a group of peer companies for the expected term of the options.  
      123  

Table of Contents  

  The following summarizes our stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2017:  
   
   The weighted-average remaining contractual term of outstanding options, vested options and exercisable options at
December 31, 2017, was 5.52 years, 5.36 years and 4.50 years, respectively. The weighted-average grant date fair value of stock option awards granted during 2016 and 2015 was $5.39 and $9.54, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value of
options exercised was zero in 2016 and $10 million in 2015.    During 2017, we received $13 million in cash and realized a tax benefit of
$12 million from the exercise of options. At December 31, 2017, the remaining unrecognized compensation expense from unvested options was $5 million, which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.33 years, the longest
period being 2.12 years.    Beginning in 2018, stock option grants will be discontinued and replaced with three-year, time-vested restricted stock units
which will be cash-settled.     Stock Unit Program  Generally, restricted stock units are granted annually under the provisions of the Plan.
Restricted stock units granted prior to 2013 generally vest ratably in three equal annual installments beginning on the third anniversary of the grant date. Beginning in 2013, restricted stock units granted will vest in an aggregate installment on
the third anniversary of the grant date. In addition, beginning in 2012, restricted stock units granted under the Plan for a variable long-term incentive program vest ratably in three equal annual installments beginning on the first anniversary of
the grant date. Restricted stock units are also granted ad hoc to attract or retain key personnel, and the terms and conditions under which these restricted stock units vest vary by award. Upon vesting, the restricted stock units are settled by
issuing one share of ConocoPhillips common stock per unit. Units awarded to retirement eligible employees vest six months from the grant date; however, those units are not issued as common stock until the earlier of separation from the company or
the end of the regularly scheduled vesting period. Until issued as stock, most recipients of the restricted stock units receive a quarterly cash payment of a dividend equivalent that is charged to retained earnings. The grant date fair market value
of these restricted stock units is deemed equal to the average ConocoPhillips stock price on the grant date. The grant date fair market value of units that do not receive a dividend equivalent while unvested is deemed equal to the average
ConocoPhillips stock price on the grant date, less the net present value of the dividends that will not be received.  
      124  

Table of Contents  

  The following summarizes our stock unit activity for the year ended December 31, 2017:  
   
   At December 31, 2017, the remaining unrecognized compensation cost from the unvested units was $93 million, which
will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.67 years, the longest period being 2.75 years. The weighted-average grant date fair value of stock unit awards granted during 2016 and 2015 was $32.15 and $65.40, respectively. The total fair
value of stock units issued during 2016 and 2015 was $191 million and $316 million, respectively.     Performance Share Program  Under
the Plan, we also annually grant restricted performance share units (PSUs) to senior management. These PSUs are authorized three years prior to their effective grant date (the performance period). Compensation expense is initially measured using the
average fair market value of ConocoPhillips common stock and is subsequently adjusted, based on changes in the ConocoPhillips stock price through the end of each subsequent reporting period, through the grant date for stock-settled awards and the
settlement date for cash-settled awards.      Stock-Settled    
 For performance periods beginning before 2009, PSUs do not vest until the employee becomes eligible for retirement by reaching age 55 with five years of
service, and restrictions do not lapse until the employee separates from the company. With respect to awards for performance periods beginning in 2009 through 2012, PSUs do not vest until the earlier of the date the employee becomes eligible for
retirement by reaching age 55 with five years of service or five years after the grant date of the award, and restrictions do not lapse until the earlier of the employee s separation from the company or five years after the grant date (although
recipients can elect to defer the lapsing of restrictions until separation). We recognize compensation expense for these awards beginning on the grant date and ending on the date the PSUs are scheduled to vest. Since these awards are authorized
three years prior to the grant date, for employees eligible for retirement by or shortly after the grant date, we recognize compensation expense over the period beginning on the date of authorization and ending on the date of grant. Until issued as
stock, recipients of the PSUs receive a quarterly cash payment of a dividend equivalent that is charged to retained earnings. Beginning in 2013, PSUs authorized for future grants will vest, absent employee election to defer, upon settlement
following the conclusion of the three-year performance period. We recognize compensation expense over the period beginning on the date of authorization and ending on the conclusion of the performance period. PSUs are settled by issuing one share of
ConocoPhillips common stock per unit.  
      125  

Table of Contents  

  The following summarizes our stock-settled Performance Share Program activity for the year ended
December 31, 2017:      
   At December 31, 2017, the remaining unrecognized compensation cost from unvested stock-settled performance share awards
was $1 million, which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.00 years, the longest period being 3.00 years. The weighted-average grant date fair value of stock-settled PSUs granted during 2016 and 2015 was $33.13 and
$69.25, respectively. The total fair value of stock-settled PSUs issued during 2016 and 2015 was $17 million and $25 million, respectively.  
   Cash-Settled      In connection with and immediately
following the separation of our Downstream businesses in 2012, grants of new PSUs, subject to a shortened performance period, were authorized. Once granted, these PSUs vest, absent employee election to defer, on the earlier of five years after the
grant date of the award or the date the employee becomes eligible for retirement. For employees eligible for retirement by or shortly after the grant date, we recognize compensation expense over the period beginning on the date of authorization and
ending on the date of grant. Otherwise, we recognize compensation expense beginning on the grant date and ending on the date the PSUs are scheduled to vest. These PSUs are settled in cash equal to the fair market value of a share of ConocoPhillips
common stock per unit on the settlement date and thus are classified as liabilities on the balance sheet. Until settlement occurs, recipients of the PSUs receive a quarterly cash payment of a dividend equivalent that is charged to compensation
expense.    Beginning in 2013, PSUs authorized for future grants will vest upon settlement following the conclusion of the three-year performance period. We
recognize compensation expense over the period beginning on the date of authorization and ending at the conclusion of the performance period. These PSUs will be settled in cash equal to the fair market value of a share of ConocoPhillips common stock
per unit on the settlement date and are classified as liabilities on the balance sheet. During the performance period, recipients of the PSUs do not receive a quarterly cash payment of a dividend equivalent, but after the performance period ends,
until settlement in cash occurs, recipients of the PSUs receive a quarterly cash payment of a dividend equivalent that is charged to compensation expense.  
 The following summarizes our cash-settled Performance Share Program activity for the year ended December 31, 2017:  

126  

Table of Contents  

  At December 31, 2017, the remaining unrecognized compensation cost from unvested cash-settled performance
share awards was $2 million, which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.64 years, the longest period being 2.13 years. The weighted-average grant date fair value of cash-settled PSUs granted during 2016 and 2015 was
$33.13 and $69.25, respectively. The total fair value of cash-settled performance share awards settled during 2016 and 2015 was $31 million and $6 million, respectively.  
 From inception of the Performance Share Program through 2013, approved PSU awards were granted after the conclusion of performance periods. Beginning in
February 2014, initial target PSU awards are issued near the beginning of new performance periods. These initial target PSU awards will terminate at the end of the performance periods and will be settled after the performance periods have ended.
Also in 2014, initial target PSU awards were issued for open performance periods that began in prior years. For the open performance period beginning in 2012, the initial target PSU awards terminated at the end of the three-year performance period
and were replaced with approved PSU awards. For the open performance period beginning in 2013, the initial target PSU awards terminated at the end of the three-year performance period and were settled after the performance period ended. There is no
effect on recognition of compensation expense.     Other  In addition to the above active programs, we have outstanding shares of restricted stock
and restricted stock units that were either issued as part of our  non-employee  director compensation program for current and former members of the company s Board of Directors or as part of an executive
compensation program that has been discontinued. Generally, the recipients of the restricted shares or units receive a quarterly dividend or dividend equivalent.  
 The following summarizes the aggregate activity of these restricted shares and units for the year ended December 31, 2017:  
   
   At December 31, 2017, all outstanding restricted stock and restricted stock units were fully vested and there was no
remaining compensation cost to be recorded. The weighted-average grant date fair value of awards granted during 2016 and 2015 was $40.36 and $58.66, respectively. The total fair value of awards issued during 2016 and 2015 was $2 million and
$3 million, respectively.  
      127  

Table of Contents  

   Note 18 Income Taxes   
 Income tax benefits included in net loss were:      
   Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes. Major components of deferred tax liabilities and assets at December 31 were:      
   At December 31, 2017, noncurrent assets and liabilities included deferred taxes of $164 million and
$5,282 million, respectively. At December 31, 2016, noncurrent assets and liabilities included deferred taxes of $400 million and $8,949 million, respectively.  
      128  

Table of Contents  

  At December 31, 2017, the components of our loss and credit carryforwards before and after consideration of
the applicable valuation allowances are:      
   Valuation allowances have been established to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that will, more likely than not, be
realized. During 2017, valuation allowances increased a total of $579 million. This increase primarily relates to the expected realization of certain deferred tax assets, including foreign tax credits; U.S. tax basis associated with foreign
assets; and state net operating losses and tax credits not expected to be realized. Based on our historical taxable income, expectations for the future, and available  tax-planning  strategies, management
expects deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, will primarily be realized as offsets to reversing deferred tax liabilities.    At
December 31, 2017, unremitted income considered to be permanently reinvested in certain foreign subsidiaries and foreign corporate joint ventures totaled approximately $2,600 million. Deferred income taxes have not been provided on this
amount, as we do not plan to initiate any action that would require the payment of income taxes. The estimated amount of additional tax that would be payable on this income if distributed is approximately $130 million.  
 The following table shows a reconciliation of the beginning and ending unrecognized tax benefits for 2017, 2016 and 2015:  
   
   Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits for 2017, 2016 and 2015 were $882 million, $359 million and
$354 million, respectively, which, if recognized, would impact our effective tax rate. The balance of unrecognized tax benefits increased in 2017 mainly due to the recognition of a U.S. worthless securities deduction that we do not believe will
generate a cash tax benefit.    At December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, accrued liabilities for interest and penalties totaled $54 million,
$54 million and $79 million, respectively, net of accrued income taxes. Interest and penalties resulted in no impact to earnings in 2017, a benefit to earnings of $18 million in 2016, and a reduction to earnings of $11 million in
2015.  
      129  

Table of Contents  

  We and our subsidiaries file tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many foreign and state
jurisdictions. Audits in major jurisdictions are generally complete as follows: United Kingdom (2014), Canada (2009), United States (2010) and Norway (2016). Issues in dispute for audited years and audits for subsequent years are ongoing and in
various stages of completion in the many jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. As a consequence, the balance in unrecognized tax benefits can be expected to fluctuate from period to period. It is reasonably possible such changes could
be significant when compared with our total unrecognized tax benefits, but the amount of change is not estimable.    The amounts of U.S. and foreign income
(loss) before income taxes, with a reconciliation of tax at the federal statutory rate with the provision for income taxes, were:      
   The increase in the effective tax rate for 2017 was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Legislation)
and the impact of the Canada disposition, partially offset by the impact of the APLNG impairment and our mix of income among taxing jurisdictions.    The
Tax Legislation, enacted on December 22, 2017, reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, requires companies to pay a  one-time  transition tax on earnings of
certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. At December 31, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Tax Legislation;
however, as described below, we have made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances and the  one-time  transition tax and recorded a provisional tax benefit of $852 million.
     Provisional Amount Deferred tax assets and liabilities    
 In the fourth quarter of 2017, we remeasured certain U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to
reverse in the future, which is generally 21 percent. However, we are still analyzing certain aspects of the Tax Legislation and refining our calculations, which could potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give
rise to new deferred tax amounts. The provisional amount recorded related to the remeasurement of our U.S. deferred tax balance was a tax benefit of $908 million.  
      130  

Table of Contents  

    Provisional Amount Foreign tax effects    
 The  one-time  transition tax is based on our total post-1986 earnings and profits which we have
previously deferred from U.S. income taxes. We reasonably estimate that we will not incur a  one-time  transition tax. This assumption may change when we finalize the calculation of post-1986 foreign earnings
and profits, previously deferred from U.S. federal taxation, and finalize the amounts held in cash or other specified assets. As a result of the Tax Legislation, we have removed the indefinite reinvestment assertion on one of our foreign
subsidiaries and recorded a tax expense of $56 million in the fourth quarter of 2017.    Our effective tax rate in 2017 was favorably impacted by a tax
benefit of $1,277 million related to the Canada disposition. This tax benefit was primarily associated with a deferred tax recovery related to the Canadian capital gains exclusion component of the 2017 Canada disposition and the recognition of
previously unrealizable Canadian capital asset tax basis. The Canada disposition, along with the associated restructuring of our Canadian operations, may generate an additional tax benefit of $822 million. However, since we believe it is
not likely we will receive a corresponding cash tax savings, this $822 million benefit has been offset by a full tax reserve. See Note 4 Assets Held for Sale, Sold or Acquired for additional information on our Canada disposition.  
 The impairment of our APLNG investment in the second quarter of 2017 did not generate a tax benefit. See the  APLNG  section of Note
5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, for information on the impairment of our APLNG investment.       The decrease in the effective tax
rate for 2016 was primarily due to our mix of income among taxing jurisdictions, reduced net tax benefit from the tax law changes discussed below, and the absence of a tax benefit associated with electing the fair market value method of apportioning
interest expense for prior years.    In the United Kingdom, legislation was enacted on September 15, 2016, to decrease the overall U.K. upstream
corporation tax rate from 50 percent to 40 percent effective January 1, 2016. As a result, we recorded a $161 million net tax benefit related to the remeasurement of our U.K. deferred tax balance in 2016.  
 In the United Kingdom, legislation was enacted on March 26, 2015, to decrease the overall U.K. upstream corporation tax rate from 62 percent to
50 percent effective January 1, 2015. As a result, we recorded a $555 million net tax benefit related to the remeasurement of our U.K. deferred tax balance in 2015.  
 In Canada, legislation was enacted on June 29, 2015, to increase the overall Canadian corporation tax rate from 25 percent to 27 percent
effective July 1, 2015. As a result, we recorded a $129 million net tax expense related to the remeasurement of our Canadian deferred tax balance in 2015.  
 In December 2015, we filed refund claims for prior years electing the fair market value method of apportioning interest in the United States. As a result, we
recorded a $185 million tax benefit associated with these refund claims in 2015.    Certain operating losses in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. only
yield a tax benefit in the U.S. as a worthless security deduction. For 2017, 2016 and 2015 the amount of the tax benefit was $962 million, $60 million and $491 million, respectively.  
      131  

Table of Contents  

   Note 19 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss   
 Accumulated other comprehensive loss in the equity section of the balance sheet included:  
   
   There were no items within accumulated other comprehensive loss related to noncontrolling interests.  
 The following table summarizes reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive loss during the years ended December 31:  
   
    See Note 17 Employee Benefit Plans, for additional information.   
  Note 20 Cash Flow Information       
    *Net of $585 million and $642 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively, related to refunds received from the Internal
Revenue Service.   
      132  

Table of Contents  

   Note 21 Other Financial Information  

133  

Table of Contents  

   Note 22 Related Party Transactions   
 Our related parties primarily include equity method investments and certain trusts for the benefit of employees.  
 Significant transactions with our equity affiliates were:      
    *We paid interest to, or received interest from, various affiliates. See Note 5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term
Receivables, for additional information on loans to affiliated companies.     The table above includes transactions with the FCCL Partnership through the
date of the sale. See Note 5 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, for additional information.     Note 23 Segment Disclosures and
Related Information     We explore for, produce, transport and market crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas liquids on a worldwide basis.
We manage our operations through six operating segments, which are primarily defined by geographic region: Alaska, Lower 48, Canada, Europe and North Africa, Asia Pacific and Middle East, and Other International.  
 Corporate and Other represents costs not directly associated with an operating segment, such as most interest expense, premiums on early retirement of debt,
corporate overhead and certain technology activities, including licensing revenues. Corporate assets include all cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.  
 We evaluate performance and allocate resources based on net income (loss) attributable to ConocoPhillips. Segment accounting policies are the same as those in
Note 1 Accounting Policies. Intersegment sales are at prices that approximate market.  
      134  

Table of Contents  

   Analysis of Results by Operating Segment   
   
   In 2017, sales by our Lower 48, Alaska and Canada segments to a certain refining company accounted for approximately
$3 billion or 11 percent of our total consolidated sales and other operating revenues.  
      135  

Table of Contents  

136  

Table of Contents  

*Includes LNG and bitumen.       
      137  

Table of Contents  

   Geographic Information       
    (1)Sales and other operating revenues are attributable to countries based on the location of the selling operation.   
  (2)Defined as net PP E plus investments in and advances to affiliated companies.   
  (3)Includes amounts related to the joint petroleum development area with shared ownership held by Australia and Timor-Leste.   
  Note 24 New Accounting Standards     In May 2014, the
FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU)  No. 2014-09,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers  (ASU  No. 2014-09),  which outlines a single
comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. This ASU supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in FASB ASC Topic 605,  Revenue Recognition,  and most industry-specific
guidance. This ASU sets forth a five-step model for determining when and how revenue is recognized. Under the model, an entity will be required to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount reflecting
the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Additional disclosures will be required to describe the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts.  
 In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU  No. 2015-14,   Deferral of the Effective Date,  which defers the
effective date of ASU  No. 2014-09.  The ASU is now effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted for interim and annual periods beginning
after December 15, 2016. Entities may choose to adopt the standard using either a full retrospective approach or a modified retrospective approach.  
 ASU  No. 2014-09  was amended in March 2016 by the provisions of ASU
 No. 2016-08,   Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net),  in April 2016 by the provisions of ASU  No. 2016-10, 
 Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing,  in May 2016 by the provisions of ASU  No. 2016-12,   Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients,  and in December 2016 by the
provisions of ASU  No. 2016-20,   Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue From Contracts With Customers.   
 We will adopt the provisions of ASU  No. 2014-09,  as amended, with effect from January 1, 2018, and have
elected not to early adopt the standard. We will adopt the new standard using the modified retrospective approach which we will apply only to contracts within the scope of the standard that are not complete at the date of initial application. Under
this approach, we will apply the guidance retrospectively only to the most current period presented in the financial statements. The impact to our financial statements is immaterial but will include a cumulative effect reduction of $220 million
to retained earnings from initially applying the new revenue standard relating to licensing revenues previously recognized. Under the new revenue standard licensing revenue will be recognized when the customer can utilize and benefit from their
right to use the license.  
      138  

Table of Contents  

  In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU  No. 2016-01,   Recognition
and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  (ASU  No. 2016-01),  to meet its objective of providing more decision-useful information about financial instruments. The ASU, among other
things, requires entities to record the changes in fair value of equity investments, other than investments accounted for using the equity method, within net income. Under this ASU, entities will no longer be able to recognize unrealized holding
gains and losses on   available-for-sale   securities in other comprehensive income. The ASU also requires additional disclosures relating to fair value measurement
categories for financial assets and liabilities and eliminates certain disclosure requirements related to financial instruments measured at amortized cost. ASU  No. 2016-01  is effective for interim and
annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and the ASU should be adopted using a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the date of adoption.  
 Upon adoption of the standard, we will make a cumulative-effect adjustment to reclassify the accumulated unrealized holding gains and losses of
$58 million related to our investment in Cenovus Energy from other comprehensive income to retained earnings. From January 1, 2018, we will begin reporting the changes in the fair value of our investment within net income. For additional
information on our investment in Cenovus Energy, see Note 6 Investment in Cenovus Energy, Note 14 Fair Value Measurement, and Note 19  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss.  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU  No. 2016-02,   Leases  (ASU
 No. 2016-02),  which establishes comprehensive accounting and financial reporting requirements for leasing arrangements. This ASU supersedes the existing requirements in FASB ASC Topic 840,
 Leases,  and requires lessees to recognize substantially all lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. The provisions of ASU  No. 2016-02  also modify the definition of a lease and
outline requirements for recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leasing arrangements by both lessees and lessors. The ASU is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and early adoption of the
standard is permitted. Entities are required to adopt the ASU using a modified retrospective approach, subject to certain optional practical expedients, and apply the provisions of ASU  No. 2016-02  to
leasing arrangements existing at or entered into after the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. In January 2018, ASU  No. 2016-02  was amended by the provisions of ASU  No. 2018-01,   Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842.  We plan to adopt ASU  No. 2016-02,  as amended, effective January 1, 2019,
and continue to evaluate the ASU to determine the impact of adoption on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures, accounting policies and systems, business processes, and internal controls. We also continue to monitor proposals issued
by the FASB to clarify the ASU and certain industry implementation issues. While our evaluation of ASU  No. 2016-02  and related implementation activities are ongoing, we expect the adoption of the ASU to
have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.    In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU
 No. 2016-13,   Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments  (ASU  No. 2016-13),  which sets forth the current expected credit loss model, a
new forward-looking impairment model for certain financial instruments based on expected losses rather than incurred losses. The ASU is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and early adoption of the
standard is permitted. Entities are required to adopt ASU  No. 2016-13  using a modified retrospective approach, subject to certain limited exceptions. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption
of this ASU.  
      139  

Table of Contents  

Oil and Gas Operations  (Unaudited)  
 In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification Topic 932,  Extractive Activities Oil and
Gas,  and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we are making certain supplemental disclosures about our oil and gas exploration and production operations.  
 These disclosures include information about our consolidated oil and gas activities and our proportionate share of our equity affiliates  oil and gas
activities in our operating segments. As a result, amounts reported as equity affiliates in Oil and Gas Operations may differ from those shown in the individual segment disclosures reported elsewhere in this report.  
 As required by current authoritative guidelines, the estimated future date when an asset will be permanently shut down for economic reasons is based on
historical  12-month    first-of-month   average prices and current costs. This estimated date when production will end affects the
amount of estimated reserves. Therefore, as prices and cost levels change from year to year, the estimate of proved reserves also changes. Generally, our proved reserves decrease as prices decline and increase as prices rise.  
 Our proved reserves include estimated quantities related to production sharing contracts (PSCs), which are reported under the  economic interest 
method, as well as variable-royalty regimes, and are subject to fluctuations in commodity prices, recoverable operating expenses and capital costs. If costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to
changes in commodity prices. For example, if prices increase, then our applicable reserve quantities would decline. At December 31, 2017, approximately 8 percent of our total proved reserves were under PSCs, located in our Asia
Pacific/Middle East geographic reporting area, and 5 percent of our total proved reserves were under a variable-royalty regime, located in our Canada geographic reporting area.  
 Our reserves disclosures by geographic area include the United States, Canada, Europe (Norway and the United Kingdom), Asia Pacific/Middle East, Africa and
Other Areas. Other Areas primarily consists of Russia, which we exited in 2015.      Reserves Governance    
 The recording and reporting of proved reserves are governed by criteria established by regulations of the SEC and FASB. Proved reserves are those quantities
of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating
methods, and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for
the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain it will commence the project within a reasonable time.  
 Proved reserves are further classified as either developed or undeveloped. Proved developed reserves are proved reserves that can be expected to be recovered
through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods, or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared with the cost of a new well, and through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational
at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well. Proved undeveloped reserves are proved reserves expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major
expenditure is required for recompletion.    We have a companywide, comprehensive,  SEC-compliant  internal policy
that governs the determination and reporting of proved reserves. This policy is applied by the geoscientists and reservoir engineers in our  
      140  

Table of Contents  

business units around the world. As part of our internal control process, each business unit s reserves processes and controls are reviewed annually by an internal team which is headed by
the company s Manager of Reserves Compliance and Reporting. This team, composed of internal reservoir engineers, geoscientists, finance personnel and a senior representative from DeGolyer and MacNaughton (D M), a third-party petroleum
engineering consulting firm, reviews the business units  reserves for adherence to SEC guidelines and company policy through  on-site  visits, teleconferences and review of documentation. In addition to
providing independent reviews, this internal team also ensures reserves are calculated using consistent and appropriate standards and procedures. This team is independent of business unit line management and is responsible for reporting its findings
to senior management. The team is responsible for communicating our reserves policy and procedures and is available for internal peer reviews and consultation on major projects or technical issues throughout the year. All of our proved reserves held
by consolidated companies and our share of equity affiliates have been estimated by ConocoPhillips.    During 2017, our processes and controls used to
assess over 90 percent of proved reserves as of December 31, 2017, were reviewed by D M. The purpose of their review was to assess whether the adequacy and effectiveness of our internal processes and controls used to determine
estimates of proved reserves are in accordance with SEC regulations. In such review, ConocoPhillips  technical staff presented D M with an overview of the reserves data, as well as the methods and assumptions used in estimating reserves.
The data presented included pertinent seismic information, geologic maps, well logs, production tests, material balance calculations, reservoir simulation models, well performance data, operating procedures and relevant economic criteria.
Management s intent in retaining D M to review its processes and controls was to provide objective third-party input on these processes and controls. D M s opinion was the general processes and controls employed by ConocoPhillips
in estimating its December 31, 2017, proved reserves for the properties reviewed are in accordance with the SEC reserves definitions. D M s report is included as Exhibit 99 of this Annual Report on Form
 10-K.     The technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the processes and internal controls used in the
preparation of the company s reserves estimates is the Manager of Reserves Compliance and Reporting. This individual holds a master s degree in petroleum engineering. He is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers with over 25 years
of oil and gas industry experience and has held positions of increasing responsibility in reservoir engineering, subsurface and asset management in the United States and several international field locations.  
 Engineering estimates of the quantities of proved reserves are inherently imprecise. See the  Critical Accounting Estimates  section of
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional discussion of the sensitivities surrounding these estimates.  
      141  

Table of Contents  

    Proved Reserves        
 
      142  

Table of Contents  

Notable changes in proved crude oil reserves in the three years ended December 31, 2017, included:  

Revisions  : In 2017, revisions in Alaska, Lower 48, Europe and Asia Pacific/Middle East were primarily due to higher prices. In 2016, revisions in Lower 48 and Alaska were primarily due to lower prices. In
2015, revisions in Alaska, Lower 48 and Asia Pacific/Middle East were primarily due to lower prices.        

Extensions and discoveries  : In 2017, extensions and discoveries in Lower 48 were primarily due to continued drilling success in the Permian Unconventional, Eagle Ford and Bakken. In 2016, extensions and
discoveries in Alaska were primarily due to drilling success in the Western North Slope, and extensions and discoveries in Lower 48 were primarily due to continued drilling success in Eagle Ford and Bakken.    

Sales  : In 2017, Canada sales were due to the disposition of a majority of our western Canada assets.    
      143  

Table of Contents  

144  

Table of Contents  

Notable changes in proved natural gas liquids reserves in the three years ended December 31, 2017, included:  

Revisions  : In 2017, revisions in Lower 48 were primarily due to higher prices. In 2015, revisions in Lower 48 and Canada were primarily due to lower prices.    

Extensions and discoveries  : In 2017, extensions and discoveries in Lower 48 were primarily due to continued drilling success in the Permian Unconventional, Eagle Ford and Bakken.    

Sales  : In 2017, Lower 48 sales were due to the disposition of our interests in the San Juan Basin and Panhandle assets, while Canada sales were due to the disposition of a majority of our western Canada
assets.    
      145  

Table of Contents  

146  

Table of Contents  

Natural gas production in the reserves table may differ from gas production (delivered for sale) in our statistics disclosure,
primarily because the quantities above include gas consumed in production operations.    Natural gas reserves are computed at 14.65 pounds per square inch
absolute and 60 degrees Fahrenheit.    Notable changes in proved natural gas reserves in the three years ended December 31, 2017, included:  

Revisions  : In 2017, revisions in Alaska, Lower 48 and Europe were primarily due to higher prices. In 2016, revisions in our equity affiliates in Asia Pacific/Middle East were primarily due to lower prices.
In 2015, revisions in Lower 48, Alaska and Canada were primarily due to lower prices, partially offset by positive revisions in Asia Pacific/Middle East from Indonesia.    

Extensions and discoveries  : In 2017, extensions and discoveries in Lower 48 were primarily due to continued drilling success in the Permian Unconventional, Eagle Ford and Bakken. In 2015, for our equity
affiliates in Asia Pacific/Middle East, extensions and discoveries were due to APLNG s ongoing development drilling onshore Australia.        

Sales  : In 2017, Lower 48 sales were due to the disposition of our interests in the San Juan Basin and Panhandle assets, while Canada sales were due to the disposition of a majority of our western Canada
assets. In 2015, Lower 48 sales were due to the disposition of noncore assets in South Texas, East Texas and North Louisiana and sales of assets in British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Alberta impacted Canada.    
      147  

Table of Contents  

148  

Table of Contents  

Notable changes in proved bitumen reserves in the three years ended December 31, 2017, included:  

Revisions  : In 2017, revisions were primarily due to higher prices at Surmont. In 2016, for both our consolidated operations and equity affiliates revisions were primarily related to lower prices which
resulted in reserve reductions at Surmont, Foster Creek, Christina Lake and Narrows Lake. In 2015, for both our consolidated operations and equity affiliates revisions were primarily related to reduced royalties from lower prices at Surmont, Foster
Creek, Christina Lake and Narrows Lake.        

Extensions and discoveries  : In 2017, extensions and discoveries were primarily due to higher prices at Surmont, which allowed undeveloped reserves previously
 de-booked  due to low prices to be recognized. In 2015, for our equity affiliates extensions and discoveries were related to approval of development at Christina Lake.    

Sales  : In 2017, sales were due to the disposition of our 50 percent interest in the FCCL Partnership.    
      149  

Table of Contents  

150  

Table of Contents  

Natural gas reserves are converted to barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) based on a 6:1 ratio: six thousand cubic feet of natural
gas converts to one BOE.      Proved Undeveloped Reserves    
 We had 1,191 million BOE of proved undeveloped reserves at  year-end  2017, compared with 1,608 million BOE at
 year-end  2016. The following table shows changes in total proved undeveloped reserves for 2017:      
   Sales were primarily due to the disposition of our 50 percent interest in the FCCL Partnership, which were partially
offset by extensions and discoveries primarily in the Lower 48, Alaska, Canada and Asia Pacific/Middle East.    As a result, at December 31, 2017, our
proved undeveloped reserves represented 24 percent of total proved reserves, compared with 25 percent at December 31, 2016. Costs incurred for the year ended December 31, 2017, relating to the development of proved undeveloped
reserves were $3.5 billion. A portion of our costs incurred each year relates to development projects where the proved undeveloped reserves will be converted to proved developed reserves in future years.  
      151  

Table of Contents  

  At the end of 2017, more than 90 percent of total proved undeveloped reserves are currently under
development or scheduled for development within five years of initial disclosure. The remainder are to be developed as parts of major projects ongoing in our Europe and Asia Pacific/Middle East regions. All major development areas are currently
producing and are expected to have proved undeveloped reserves convert to proved developed over time. Approximately 74 percent of our total proved undeveloped reserves at  year-end  2017 are in North
America, and all of these reserve volumes are planned for development within five years of initial disclosure.      Results of Operations    
 The company s results of operations from oil and gas activities for the years 2017, 2016 and 2015 are shown in the following tables.  Non-oil  and gas activities, such as pipeline and marine operations, liquefied natural gas operations, crude oil and gas marketing activities, and the profit element of transportation operations in which we have an
ownership interest are excluded. Additional information about selected line items within the results of operations tables is shown below:      

Sales include sales to unaffiliated entities attributable primarily to the company s net working interests and royalty interests. Sales are net of fees to transport our produced hydrocarbons beyond the production
function to a final delivery point using transportation operations which are not consolidated.        

Transportation costs reflect fees to transport our produced hydrocarbons beyond the production function to a final delivery point using transportation operations which are consolidated.    

Other revenues include gains and losses from asset sales, certain amounts resulting from the purchase and sale of hydrocarbons, and other miscellaneous income.    

Production costs include costs incurred to operate and maintain wells, related equipment and facilities used in the production of petroleum liquids and natural gas.    

Taxes other than income taxes include production, property and other  non-income  taxes.        

Depreciation of support equipment is reclassified as applicable.        

Other related expenses include inventory fluctuations, foreign currency transaction gains and losses and other miscellaneous expenses.    
      152  

Table of Contents  

   Results of Operations  

153  

Table of Contents  

154  

Table of Contents  

155  

Table of Contents  

    Statistics       
 
      156  

Table of Contents  

Average sales prices for Alaska crude oil and Asia Pacific/Middle East natural gas above reflect a reduction for
transportation costs in which we have an ownership interest that are incurred subsequent to the terminal point of the production function. Accordingly, the average sales prices differ from those discussed in Item 7 of Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   
      157  

Table of Contents  

*Includes bitumen.   
      158  

Table of Contents  

    Development and Exploration Activities    
 The following two tables summarize our net interest in productive and dry exploratory and development wells in the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016
and 2015. A  development well  is a well drilled within the proved area of a reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. An  exploratory well  is a well drilled to find and produce crude oil or
natural gas in an unknown field or a new reservoir within a proven field. Exploratory wells also include wells drilled in areas near or offsetting current production, or in areas where well density or production history have not achieved statistical
certainty of results. Excluded from the exploratory well count are stratigraphic-type exploratory wells, primarily relating to oil sands delineation wells located in Canada and coalbed methane test wells located in Asia Pacific/Middle East.  
   
    *Our total proportionate interest was less than one.   
      159  

Table of Contents  

  The table below represents the status of our wells drilling at December 31, 2017, and includes wells in the
process of drilling or in active completion. It also represents gross and net productive wells, including producing wells and wells capable of production at December 31, 2017.  
   
    *Includes 18 gross and 6 net multiple completion wells.   

160  

Table of Contents  

    Costs Incurred    
   
   * Certain amounts in Asia Pacific/Middle East equity affiliates have been revised in 2016 and 2015 to reflect additional
abandonment obligations.   
      161  

Table of Contents  

    Capitalized Costs        
    *Certain amounts in Asia Pacific/Middle East equity affiliates have been revised in 2016 to reflect additional abandonment
obligations.   
      162  

Table of Contents  

    Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserve Quantities
     In accordance with SEC and FASB requirements, amounts were computed using  12-month  average prices
(adjusted only for existing contractual terms) and   end-of-year   costs, appropriate statutory tax rates and a prescribed 10 percent discount factor. Twelve-month
average prices are calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the
    first-day-of-the-month     price for each month within the
 12-month  period prior to the end of the reporting period. For all years, continuation of  year-end  economic conditions was assumed. The calculations were based on
estimates of proved reserves, which are revised over time as new data becomes available. Probable or possible reserves, which may become proved in the future, were not considered. The calculations also require assumptions as to the timing of future
production of proved reserves and the timing and amount of future development costs, including dismantlement, and future production costs, including taxes other than income taxes.  
 While due care was taken in its preparation, we do not represent that this data is the fair value of our oil and gas properties, or a fair estimate of the
present value of cash flows to be obtained from their development and production.     Discounted Future Net Cash Flows  

163  

Table of Contents  

164  

Table of Contents  

165  

Table of Contents  

   Sources of Change in Discounted Future Net Cash Flows   

The net change in prices and production costs is the   beginning-of-year   reserve-production forecast multiplied by the net annual change in
the  per-unit  sales price and production cost, discounted at 10 percent.        

Purchases and sales of reserves in place, along with extensions, discoveries and improved recovery, are calculated using production forecasts of the applicable reserve quantities for the year multiplied by the  12-month  average sales prices, less future estimated costs, discounted at 10 percent.        

Revisions of previous quantity estimates are calculated using production forecast changes for the year, including changes in the timing of production, multiplied by the  12-month 
average sales prices, less future estimated costs, discounted at 10 percent.        

The accretion of discount is 10 percent of the prior year s discounted future cash inflows, less future production and development costs.    

The net change in income taxes is the annual change in the discounted future income tax provisions.    
      166  

Table of Contents  

Selected Quarterly Financial Data  (Unaudited)   
   
    For additional information on the commodity price environment, see the Business Environment and Executive Overview section of
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   
      167  

Table of Contents  

Supplementary Information Condensed Consolidating Financial Information   
 We have various cross guarantees among ConocoPhillips, ConocoPhillips Company and ConocoPhillips Canada Funding Company I, with respect to publicly held debt
securities. ConocoPhillips Company is 100 percent owned by ConocoPhillips. ConocoPhillips Canada Funding Company I is an indirect, 100 percent owned subsidiary of ConocoPhillips Company. ConocoPhillips and ConocoPhillips Company have fully
and unconditionally guaranteed the payment obligations of ConocoPhillips Canada Funding Company I, with respect to their publicly held debt securities. Similarly, ConocoPhillips has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment obligations of
ConocoPhillips Company with respect to its publicly held debt securities. In addition, ConocoPhillips Company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment obligations of ConocoPhillips with respect to its publicly held debt securities. All
guarantees are joint and several. The following condensed consolidating financial information presents the results of operations, financial position and cash flows for:      

ConocoPhillips, ConocoPhillips Company and ConocoPhillips Canada Funding Company I (in each case, reflecting investments in subsidiaries utilizing the equity method of accounting).    

All other nonguarantor subsidiaries of ConocoPhillips.    

The consolidating adjustments necessary to present ConocoPhillips  results on a consolidated basis.      In
2015, ConocoPhillips received a $3.5 billion return of capital from ConocoPhillips Company to settle certain accumulated intercompany balances. The transaction had no impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
 In 2016, ConocoPhillips received a $2.3 billion return of capital from ConocoPhillips Company to settle certain accumulated intercompany
balances. The transaction had no impact on our consolidated financial statements.    In 2016, ConocoPhillips Canada Funding Company I repaid
$1.25 billion of external debt. This transaction was reflected in the full-year 2016 condensed consolidating financial statements.    In 2017,
ConocoPhillips Company received a $9.8 billion return of capital from a nonguarantor subsidiary to settle certain accumulated intercompany balances. The transaction had no impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
 In 2017, ConocoPhillips received a $5.0 billion return of capital from ConocoPhillips Company to settle certain accumulated intercompany
balances. The transaction had no impact on our consolidated financial statements.    In 2017, ConocoPhillips received a $3.0 billion distribution
from ConocoPhillips Company to settle certain accumulated intercompany balances. This consisted of a $2.8 billion return of capital and a $0.2 billion return of earnings. This transaction had no impact on our consolidated financial
statements.    In 2017, ConocoPhillips Company received a $1.4 billion loan repayment from a nonguarantor subsidiary to settle certain accumulated
intercompany balances. This transaction had no impact on our consolidated financial statements.    This condensed consolidating financial information should
be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes.  
      168  

Table of Contents  

169  

Table of Contents  

170  

Table of Contents  

*Includes intercompany loans.   
      171  

Table of Contents  

172  

Table of Contents  

173  

Table of Contents  

Item 9.  
  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE       None.  

Item 9A.  
    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES       We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure
information required to be disclosed in reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Act), is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange
Commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. As of
December 31, 2017, with the participation of our management, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer) and our Executive Vice President, Finance, Commercial and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer)
carried out an evaluation, pursuant to Rule  13a-15(b)  of the Act, of ConocoPhillips  disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule  13a-15(e)  of the Act).
Based upon that evaluation, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our Executive Vice President, Finance, Commercial and Chief Financial Officer concluded our disclosure controls and procedures were operating effectively as of
December 31, 2017.    There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in
 Rule 13a-15(f)  of the Act, in the period covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  
  Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
 This report is included in Item 8 on page 76 and is incorporated herein by reference.  
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
 This report is included in Item 8 on page 78 and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 9B.  
  OTHER INFORMATION       None.  
      174  

Table of Contents  

     PART III   

It  em 10.  
  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE       Information regarding our executive officers
appears in Part I of this report on page 26.     Code of Business Ethics and Conduct for Directors and Employees   
 We have a Code of Business Ethics and Conduct for Directors and Employees (Code of Ethics), including our principal executive officer, principal financial
officer, principal accounting officer and persons performing similar functions. We have posted a copy of our Code of Ethics on the  Corporate Governance  section of our internet website at  www.conocophillips.com  (within the
Investors Corporate Governance section) .  Any waivers of the Code of Ethics must be approved, in advance, by our full Board of Directors. Any amendments to, or waivers from, the Code of Ethics that apply to our executive officers and
directors will be posted on the  Corporate Governance  section of our internet website.    All other information required by Item 10 of Part III
will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A on or before April 30, 2018, and is incorporated herein by reference.*  

Item 11.  
  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION       Information required by Item 11 of Part III will be included in our Proxy
Statement relating to our 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A on or before April 30, 2018, and is incorporated herein by reference.*  

Item 12.  
  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS     
 Information required by Item 12 of Part III will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed pursuant
to Regulation 14A on or before April 30, 2018, and is incorporated herein by reference.*      

Item 13.  
  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE       Information required by Item
13 of Part III will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A on or before April 30, 2018, and is incorporated herein by reference.*  

Item 14.  
  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES       Information required by Item 14 of Part III will be included in
our Proxy Statement relating to our 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A on or before April 30, 2018, and is incorporated herein by reference.*  
      *Except for information or data
specifically incorporated herein by reference under Items 10 through 14, other information and data appearing in our 2018 Proxy Statement are not deemed to be a part of this Annual Report on  Form 10-K  or
deemed to be filed with the Commission as a part of this report.   
      175  

Table of Contents  

     PART IV   

Item 15.  
  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES         

(a)    1.     
  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data       The financial statements and supplementary
information listed in the Index to Financial Statements, which appears on page 75, are filed as part of this annual report.      

2. 
  Financial Statement Schedules       Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts,
appears below. All other schedules are omitted because they are not required, not significant, not applicable or the information is shown in another schedule, the financial statements or the notes to consolidated financial statements.  
   
   The exhibits listed in the Index to Exhibits, which appears on pages 177
through 187, are filed as part of this annual report.     SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS (Consolidated)   
  ConocoPhillips       
    (a)Represents acquisitions/dispositions/revisions and the effect of translating foreign financial statements.   
  (b)Amounts charged off less recoveries of amounts previously charged off.   
  (c)Includes an adjustment to the U.S. tax basis due to U.S. Tax Legislation.   
  (d)Benefit payments.   
      176  

Table of Contents  

   CONOCOPHILLIPS   
  INDEX TO EXHIBITS       

Exhibit    Number   
    
  Description   

2.1 
    
  Separation and Distribution Agreement Between ConocoPhillips and Phillips 66, dated April 
26, 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report of ConocoPhillips on Form  8-K  filed on May 1, 2012; File  No. 001-32395).     

2.2   
    
  Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated March 
29, 2017, by and among ConocoPhillips Company, ConocoPhillips Canada Resources Corp., ConocoPhillips Canada Energy Partnership, ConocoPhillips Western Canada Partnership, ConocoPhillips Canada (BRC) Partnership, ConocoPhillips Canada E P ULC, and Cenovus
Energy Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q  for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 filed by ConocoPhillips on May 4, 2017).    

2.3   
    
  Asset Purchase and Sale Agreement Amending Agreement, dated as of May 
16, 2017, by and among ConocoPhillips Company, ConocoPhillips Canada Resources Corp., ConocoPhillips Canada Energy Partnership, ConocoPhillips Western Canada Partnership, ConocoPhillips Canada (BRC) Partnership, ConocoPhillips Canada E P ULC, and Cenovus
Energy Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the Current Report of ConocoPhillips on Form  8-K  filed on May 18, 2017; File  No. 001-32395). 

3.1 
    
  Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Quarterly Report of ConocoPhillips on Form
  10-Q  for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2008; File  No. 001-32395).     

3.2 
    
  Certificate of Designations of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of ConocoPhillips (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Current
 Report of ConocoPhillips on Form  8-K  filed on August 30, 2002; File  No. 000-49987).     

3.3 
    
  Amended and Restated  By-Laws  of ConocoPhillips, as amended and restated as of October 
9, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report of ConocoPhillips on Form  8-K  filed on October 13, 2015; File  No. 001-32395). 

ConocoPhillips and its subsidiaries are parties to several debt instruments under which the total amount of securities authorized does not exceed 10 percent of the total assets of ConocoPhillips and its subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis. Pursuant to paragraph 4(iii)(A) of Item 601(b) of Regulation  S-K,  ConocoPhillips agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to the SEC upon request.  

10.1 
    
  1986 Stock Plan of Phillips Petroleum Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Annual Report of ConocoPhillips on  Form 10-K  for the year ended December 31, 2002; File  No. 000-49987).     

10.2 
    
  1990 Stock Plan of Phillips Petroleum Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Annual Report of ConocoPhillips on  Form 10-K  for the year ended December 31, 2002; File  No. 000-49987).     
 
      177  

Table of Contents  

178  

Table of Contents  

179  

Table of Contents  

180  

Table of Contents  

181  

Table of Contents  

182  

Table of Contents  

183  

Table of Contents  

184  

Table of Contents  

185  

Table of Contents  

186  

Table of Contents  

Exhibit 
 Number  
    
   Description   

101.INS* 
    
 XBRL Instance Document.  

101.SCH* 
    
 XBRL Schema Document.  

101.CAL* 
    
 XBRL Calculation Linkbase Document.  

101.DEF* 
    
 XBRL Definition Linkbase Document.  

101.LAB* 
    
 XBRL Labels Linkbase Document.  

101.PRE* 
    
 XBRL Presentation Linkbase Document.  

* 
  Filed herewith  .     

The schedules to this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation  S-K.  ConocoPhillips agrees to furnish a copy of any schedule omitted from this exhibit
to the SEC upon request.     

ConocoPhillips has previously been granted confidential treatment for certain portions of this exhibit pursuant to Rule  24b-2  under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.     
      187  

Table of Contents  

     SIGNATURES   
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.      

CONOCOPHILLIPS   

February 20, 2018 
   
    /s/ Ryan M. Lance    

Ryan M. Lance 
 Chairman of the Board of Directors 
 and Chief Executive Officer   
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed, as of February 20,
2018, on behalf of the registrant by the following officers in the capacity indicated and by a majority of directors.      

Signature   
    
   Title    

/s/ Ryan M. Lance  
 Ryan M. Lance  
    
   Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer  
 (Principal executive officer)   

/s/ Don E. Wallette, Jr.  
 Don E. Wallette, Jr.  
    
   Executive Vice President, Finance, Commercial and Chief Financial Officer  
 (Principal financial officer)   

/s/ Glenda M. Schwarz  
 Glenda M. Schwarz  
    
 Vice President and Controller (Principal accounting officer)  
 
      188  

Table of Contents  

/s/ Richard L. Armitage  
 Richard L. Armitage  
    
 Director  

/s/ Richard H. Auchinleck  
 Richard H. Auchinleck  
    
 Director  

/s/ Charles E. Bunch  
 Charles E. Bunch  
    
 Director  

/s/ Caroline M. Devine  
 Caroline M. Devine  
    
 Director  

/s/ Gay Huey Evans  
 Gay Huey Evans  
    
 Director  

/s/ John V. Faraci  
 John V. Faraci  
    
 Director  

/s/ Jody Freeman  
 Jody Freeman  
    
 Director  

/s/ Sharmila Mulligan  
 Sharmila Mulligan  
    
 Director  

/s/ Arjun N. Murti  
 Arjun N. Murti  
    
 Director  

/s/ Robert A. Niblock  
 Robert A. Niblock  
    
 Director  

/s/ Harald J. Norvik  
 Harald J. Norvik  
    
 Director  
 
      189  

<EX-10.26.24>
 2
 d534096dex102624.htm
 EX-10.26.24

EX-10.26.24 

Exhibit 10.26.24      

PERFORMANCE SHARE PROGRAM   
  FEBRUARY 13, 2018   
  TARGET AWARD FOR PERFORMANCE PERIOD 18   
  PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT   
  AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS     These
Performance Share Unit Award Terms and Conditions describe terms and conditions of Performance Share Unit Awards, as part of the ConocoPhillips Performance Share Program (the  Program ), granted under the 2014 Omnibus Stock and Performance
Incentive Plan of ConocoPhillips (referred to as the Plan) by ConocoPhillips (the  Company ) to you as an eligible employee (the  Employee ). These Terms and Conditions, together with the Award Summary given to each Employee
receiving an Award, form the Award Agreement (the  Agreement ) relating to the Awards described. Subject to the Plan and this Agreement, the Company grants to the Employee Performance Share Units. Individual awards will be as set forth in
the Award Summary given to each Employee to whom an Award is granted. The Award Summary for each Employee is made a part of this Agreement with regard to such Employee. The Award Summary may be modified at any time to reflect increased or decreased
amounts of the Award due to promotion or demotion of the Employee and due to decisions made with regard to this Performance Period 18 of the Program, including adjustments related to the performance of the Company and adjustments related to the
performance of the Employee; provided, however, that after a Change of Control occurs, there shall be no decrease in the number of Performance Share Units granted, except pursuant to the section titled  Detrimental Activities  below.
Multiple book entry accounts may be used to reflect the total shares awarded under these Terms and Conditions. This and any other administrative activities shall not be construed to alter these Terms and Conditions.  

AWARD : 
 Performance Share Unit (PSU) Award granted by the Authorized Party under the provisions of the Plan. The PSUs will be noted in a book entry account created for the Employee.    

PSU : 
 A unit evidencing the right to receive either one share of ConocoPhillips Stock, $.01 par value, or the Fair Market Value thereof under the circumstances described in these Terms and Conditions.    
  VOTING RIGHTS : The named owner of the PSUs has no voting rights for the units, but is considered the beneficial
owner for all purposes including ownership and control reports such as the annual proxy statement.     DIVIDEND
EQUIVALENTS : PSUs shall accrue a dividend equivalent at such times as a dividend is paid on the common stock of the Company, par value of $.01 per share, which dividend equivalent shall be credited as reinvested in additional PSUs as of the date
such dividends are payable, and such additional PSUs shall be subject to these terms and conditions. The number of PSUs acquired through this reinvestment of dividend equivalents shall be calculated using the Fair Market Value at the time the
dividend equivalent is accrued.   Accrued dividend equivalents shall be paid at the time of settlement of the PSUs as set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below.  
      - 1 -  

RETIREMENT PLAN EARNINGS : The issuance of these PSUs does not
constitute earnings under any retirement plan sponsored by a ConocoPhillips company. The value of the units at the time restrictions lapse also does not constitute earnings under any retirement plan sponsored by a ConocoPhillips company. Neither the
issuance of nor lapsing of restrictions on PSUs will have any impact on any retirement plans or any other compensation plan sponsored by a ConocoPhillips company.  
  TAX INFORMATION : For an Employee subject to U.S. tax laws, this matter is more thoroughly covered in the document
entitled  U.S. Tax Aspects of Restricted Stock Units.  However, in general terms, under current U.S. tax law, the value of these units is not considered taxable income until the restrictions lapse.  
  BENEFICIARY : In the event of the death of the named owner of these units prior to the lapsing of restrictions for
other reasons, such restrictions will lapse and settlement be made to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the named owner of the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) at the same times and upon the same
events as it would otherwise have been made in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below. Such beneficiary or beneficiaries must be set forth under a properly completed beneficiary
designation form acceptable to the Administrator which is received by the Administrator prior to the death of the named owner. In absence of such a beneficiary designation, the personal representative of the estate of the named owner or the person
or persons to whom the Award shall have been validly transferred by the personal representative pursuant to will or the laws of descent and distribution shall have the right to settlement of the Award. to the same extent the named owner would have,
had the named owner not died. No transfer of an Award, or of the unrestricted Stock or other proceeds of an Award, by beneficiary designation or by will or by the laws of descent and distribution shall be effective to bind the Company unless the
Administrator shall have been furnished with written notice thereof, with a copy of the beneficiary designation or will, and with such other evidence as the Administrator may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer and the
acceptance by the transferee or transferees of the terms and conditions of such Award.     CHANGE OF CONTROL : Upon
a Change of Control, the following shall apply to the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents):      

1. 
 Each Employee shall immediately become fully vested in such PSUs that are not assumed, or substituted for, by an acquirer in connection with the Change of Control, and such PSUs shall not thereafter be forfeitable for
any reason, except as set forth in the section titled  Detrimental Activities  below.    

2. 
 With regard to any other PSUs, each Employee shall become fully vested in such PSUs upon incurring a Severance following such Change of Control, and such PSUs shall not thereafter be forfeitable for any reason, except
as set forth in the section titled  Detrimental Activities  below.    

3. 
   In the event of vesting of PSUs pursuant to either paragraph 1 or 2 above, all restrictions and other limitations
applicable to the PSUs shall lapse and the PSUs     
      - 2 -  

shall be settled in unrestricted Stock or cash at the same times and upon the same events as it would otherwise have been made in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the
section titled  Settlement  below.       RESTRICTIONS : The following restrictions relate to
the PSUs:    The PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) will be held in escrow for the Employee. As provided
herein, the Employee will have all rights of economic ownership to such units including the right to receive dividend equivalents as set forth in the section titled  Dividend Equivalents  above, except that the Employee shall not have the
right to sell, transfer, assign, or otherwise dispose of such units until the escrow is terminated (such restrictions being known as the  Transfer Restrictions ).  
 Unless postponed pursuant to an effective election, as described in the section titled  Initial Deferral Election  below, the
escrow shall end on the earliest of any of the following occurrences, with Transfer Restrictions to lapse and settlement be made as set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below:  

1. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment as a result of Layoff of the Employee;    

2. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment after Retirement;    

3. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment due to death;    

4. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment following Disability of the Employee;    

5. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment following a Change of Control; or    
   In the absence of an effective election, as described in the section
titled  Initial Deferral Election  below, the Transfer Restrictions shall lapse and the PSUs (including any such that are awarded after the Separation from Service of the Employee) shall be settled in cash on the date that is the later of
(a) the end of the escrow period and (b) the earliest of the Employee s death, February 20, 2021, or six months after the date of the Employee s Separation from Service for a reason other than death; provided, however, that
settlement shall not be made before February 20, 2021.     INITIAL DEFERRAL ELECTION : If the Employee is
eligible for participation in the Key Employee Deferred Compensation Plan of ConocoPhillips (KEDCP), the Employee may elect on an election form delivered to the Authorized Party at a time set by the Authorized Party (which shall be on or before
December 31, 2017) to have the settlement in cash of the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents), in whole or in part, replaced with an account in lieu thereof to be created in KEDCP, with distribution from KEDCP to
be made in accordance with the election of the Employee and any subsequent elections allowed under the provisions of KEDCP. Upon creation of such an account, the related PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) shall be
canceled, and shall no longer be owed or payable, except through KEDCP.  
      - 3 -  

In the absence of such an election, the escrow will end and settlement shall be made in one lump
sum payment in cash at the time and in the manner set forth in the sections titled  Restrictions  above and  Settlement  below.  
  SETTLEMENT : Unless deferred as described in the section titled  Initial Deferral Election  above, the
Company shall, at the time stated above, deliver to each Employee an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents), and the related PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued
dividend equivalents) shall be canceled. In all cases the Employee will be responsible to pay all required withholding taxes associated with the Award. The Employee must pay any required withholding taxes by having shares equal in value to the
applicable withholding taxes withheld by the Company (or such other method as the Company, in its sole discretion, allows). The value of the shares withheld for this purpose shall be an amount consistent with the applicable laws and regulations. If
Australian tax law applies to the Employee, then an Award is a scheme to which Subdivision  83A-C  of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 of Australia applies (subject to the conditions in that Act).  
 The Fair Market Value of the Award received by the Employee shall be determined in accordance with the definition and principles set forth in
the Plan.     FORFEITURE : An Employee s right, title, and interest in PSUs awarded under the Program
(including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) or derived from such Performance Share Units, or the ownership thereof, shall be forfeited if the Employee terminates employment prior to termination of the escrow period for any reason
other than Termination after Layoff, Termination after Retirement, Termination due to death, Termination following Disability, or Termination following a Change in Control; provided, however, any transfer between the Company and any Subsidiary, or
between Subsidiaries at the request of the Company or such Subsidiaries, shall not result in forfeiture. Furthermore, an Employee s right, title, and interest in Performance Share Units awarded under the Program or derived from such Performance
Share Units, or the ownership thereof, shall be forfeited if the Employee does not complete twelve full months of employment in the Performance Period, unless otherwise approved by the Authorized Party. If the Employee completes twelve full months
of employment in the Performance Period but terminates employment before the end of the Performance Period as a result of Layoff, Retirement, death or Disability, then the Award shall be prorated based on the number of full months of employment
completed in the Performance Period.     DETRIMENTAL ACTIVITIES : If the Authorized Party determines that,
subsequent to the grant of any Award but prior to any Change of Control, the Employee has engaged or is engaging in any activity which, in the sole judgment of the Authorized Party, is or may be detrimental to the Company or a subsidiary, the
Authorized Party may cancel all or part of the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) held in escrow pursuant to the Award granted to that Employee. Upon any Change of Control, the Authorized Party may cancel all or part
of the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) held in escrow pursuant to the Award granted to that Employee only upon a determination by the Authorized Party that the Employee has given the Company Cause for such
cancellation.  
      - 4 -  

If the Authorized Party, in its or his sole discretion, determines that the lapsing of
restrictions on PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) held in escrow pursuant to any Award has the possibility of violating any law, regulation, or decree pertaining to the Company, any of its subsidiaries, or the
Employee, the Authorized Party may freeze or suspend the Employee s right to settlement or payout of the Award until such time as the lapse of restrictions would no longer, in the sole discretion of the Authorized Party, have the possibility of
violating such law, regulation, or decree.    Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Award is subject to forfeiture or
recoupment, in whole or in part, under applicable law, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act.  
  RECAPITALIZATION : Upon any change in the outstanding stock of the Company by reason of any stock dividend, stock
split, reverse stock split, recapitalization, reclassification, or other similar change, the Committee shall make corresponding adjustments to the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents).  
      - 5 -  

DEFINITIONS :  
  Capitalized terms not defined below shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan under which the Award is granted.   
        Administrator            means the CEO, who is authorized, with regard to outstanding Awards, to
administer the Program and take action under this the Program. The CEO may delegate such of his administrative duties and responsibilities as he shall deem desirable.       
    Authorized Party      means the person who is authorized to approve an Award, exercise discretion, or take action under the
Administrative Procedure for the Performance Share Program and pursuant to the Program. With regard to Senior Officers, the Committee is the Authorized Party. With regard to other Employees, the Chief Executive Officer, acting as the Special Equity
Award Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, is the Authorized Party, although the Committee may act concurrently as the Authorized Party. The Authorized Party may delegate duties and responsibilities regarding the operation of the
Program, other than the authority to grant an Award.       Award    means any Performance Share Units granted to an Employee pursuant to
such applicable terms, conditions, and limitations as the Authorized Party may establish in order to fulfill the objectives of the Program.  
    Cause    means  Cause      as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of
ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan  .         Change of Control    has the meaning
set forth in Attachment A to these Terms and Conditions.       Chief Executive Officer      or 
    CEO      means the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.       Committee    means the Human Resources
and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, or any successor committee to it.       Company    means
ConocoPhillips, a Delaware corporation.       Disability      means a disability for which the employee in question has been
determined to be entitled to either (i) benefits under the applicable plan of long-term disability of the Company or its subsidiaries or (ii) disability benefits under the Social Security Act. In the absence of any such determination, the
Authorized Party may make a determination that the employee has a Disability.       Fair Market Value    means, as of a particular date,
the mean between the highest and lowest sales price per share of such Stock on the consolidated transaction reporting system for the principal national securities exchange on which shares of Stock are listed on that date, or, if there shall have
been no such sale so reported on that date, on the last preceding date on which such a sale was so reported, or, at the discretion of the Committee, the price prevailing on the exchange at a designated time.  
    Good Reason      means  Good Reason  as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of
ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan.       Grant Price    means the Fair Market Value for one
share of Stock as of the date of the grant of an Award. Grant price is not adjusted for any restrictions applicable to the Award.  
      - 6 -  

Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of ConocoPhillips    means the plan of that
name (or a successor plan to the plan of that name) in effect on an applicable Change of Control. If no plan of that name (or successor plan to the plan of that name) is in effect on an applicable Change of Control, it shall mean instead the plan of
that name in effect on the date of the Award.       Layoff    means an applicable Termination of Employment due to layoff under the
ConocoPhillips Severance Pay Plan, the ConocoPhillips Executive Severance Plan, or the ConocoPhillips Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan, or layoff or redundancy under any similar layoff or redundancy plan which the Company or its
subsidiaries may adopt from time to time. If all or any portion of the benefits under the redundancy or layoff plan are contingent on the employee s signing a general release of liability, such Termination shall not be considered as a
 Layoff  for purposes of this Award unless the employee executes and does not revoke a general release of liability, acceptable to the Company, under the terms of such layoff or redundancy plan. In order to be considered a layoff for
purposes of this Award, the Termination of Employment must also be considered a Separation from Service.       Participating Company   
includes ConocoPhillips and its 100% owned subsidiaries, including both those directly owned and those owned through subsidiaries, whose participation has been approved by the Authorized Party.  
    Performance Share Unit      or    PSU      means the type of restricted stock unit issued under the
Performance Share Program (as determined by the Authorized Party) that is subject to forfeiture provisions or that has certain restrictions attached to the ownership thereof.  
    Restricted Stock Unit      means a unit equal to one share of Stock (as determined by the Authorized Party) that is subject to
forfeiture provisions or that has certain restrictions attached to the ownership thereof.       Retirement      means Termination
at age 55 or older with a minimum of 5 years of service with a Participating Company; provided, however, that with regard to an Employee not on the United States payroll, the CEO may approve the use of a different definition. Service is defined by
the policies of the Participating Company.       Senior Officer    means the Chairman of the Board, the CEO, all other executive
officers of the Company (determined in accordance with the Company s custom and practice pursuant to section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), all other employees of the Company who report directly to the CEO and whose
salary grade is 23 or higher, and all other employees of the Company whose salary grade is 26 or higher.       Severance    means
 Severance  as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan, and shall also incorporate the meaning of the terms  Cause 
and  Good Reason  contained in the definition of  Severance  in such plan.       Stock      means shares of
common stock of the Company, par value $.01. Stock may also be referred to as  Common Stock.        Termination,   
     Termination of Employment,    and      Separation from Service    each mean  separation from service  as that term is used in section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.  
      - 7 -  

Attachment A   
   Change of Control       The
following definitions apply to the Change of Control provision in Section 10 of the Plan.      Affiliate  shall have the
meaning ascribed to such term in  Rule 12b-2  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect at the time of determination.  
  Associate  shall mean, with reference to any Person, (a) any corporation, firm, partnership, association, unincorporated
organization or other entity (other than the Company or a subsidiary of the Company) of which such Person is an officer or general partner (or officer or general partner of a general partner) or is, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of
10% or more of any class of equity securities, (b) any trust or other estate in which such Person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such Person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity and (c) any relative or
spouse of such Person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same home as such Person.     Beneficial Owner  shall mean,
with reference to any securities, any Person if:    (a) such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates and Associates,
directly or indirectly, is the  beneficial owner  of (as determined pursuant to  Rule 13d-3  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect at the time of determination)
such securities or otherwise has the right to vote or dispose of such securities;    (b) such Person or any of such
Person s Affiliates and Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right or obligation to acquire such securities (whether such right or obligation is exercisable or effective immediately or only after the passage of time or the occurrence of
an event) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, other rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be
deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to  beneficially own,  (i) securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are
accepted for purchase or exchange or (ii) securities issuable upon exercise of Exempt Rights; or    (c) such Person or
any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates (i) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) with any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) that beneficially owns such securities for the
purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except as set forth in the proviso to subsection (a) of this definition) or disposing of such securities or (ii) is a member of a group (as that term is used in
 Rule 13d-5(b)  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act) that includes any other Person that beneficially owns such securities;  
 provided, however, that nothing in this definition shall cause a Person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities to be the Beneficial Owner of, or
to  beneficially own,  any securities acquired through such Person s participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of 40 days after the date of such acquisition. For purposes hereof,
 voting  a security shall include voting, granting a proxy, consenting or making a request or demand relating to corporate action (including, without limitation, a demand for a shareholder list, to call a shareholder meeting or to inspect
corporate books and records) or otherwise giving an authorization (within the meaning of section 14(a) of the Exchange Act) in respect of such security.  
      - 8 -  

The terms  beneficially own  and  beneficially owning  shall have meanings
that are correlative to this definition of the term  Beneficial Owner.      Board  shall have the meaning set forth in
the Plan.     Change of Control  shall mean any of the following occurring on or after January 1, 2018:  
 (a) any Person (other than an Exempt Person) shall become the Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock
then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding; provided, however, that no Change of Control shall be deemed to occur for purposes of this subsection (a) if such Person shall
become a Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding solely as a result of (i) any acquisition directly from the
Company or (ii) any acquisition by a Person pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of this definition;  
 (b) individuals who, as of January 1, 2018, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason
to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to January 1, 2018 whose election, or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at
least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; provided, further, that there shall be excluded, for this purpose, any such individual whose
initial assumption of office occurs as a result of any actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other
than the Board;    (c) the Company shall consummate a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange, consolidation, or
similar transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the acquisition of assets or securities of another entity by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries (a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) 50% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation, or common equity securities of an entity other than a
corporation, resulting from such Business Combination and the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of such corporation or other entity are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the Persons
who were the Beneficial Owners of the outstanding Common Stock immediately prior to such Business Combination in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the outstanding Common Stock,
(ii) no Person (excluding any Exempt Person or any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such Business Combination, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power
of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation, or common equity securities of an entity other than a corporation,
resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of such corporation or other entity, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of
 
      - 9 -  

the corporation, or the body which is most analogous to the board of directors of a corporation if not a corporation, resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board
at the time of the initial agreement or initial action by the Board providing for such Business Combination; or    (d) the
shareholders of the Company shall approve a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company unless such liquidation or dissolution is approved as part of a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of
this definition.     Common Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Company  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  
  Exempt Person  shall mean any of the Company, any entity controlled by the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust)
sponsored or maintained by the Company or any entity controlled by the Company, and any Person organized, appointed, or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such employee benefit plan.  
  Exempt Rights  shall mean any rights to purchase shares of Common Stock or other Voting Stock of the Company if at the time of the
issuance thereof such rights are not separable from such Common Stock or other Voting Stock ( i.e. , are not transferable otherwise than in connection with a transfer of the underlying Common Stock or other Voting Stock), except upon the
occurrence of a contingency, whether such rights exist as of January 1, 2018 or are thereafter issued by the Company as a dividend on shares of Common Stock or other Voting Securities or otherwise.  
  Person  shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust, unincorporated organization, or other
entity.     Voting Stock  shall mean, (1) with respect to a corporation, all securities of such corporation of any class or
series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, directors of such corporation (excluding any class or series that would be entitled so to vote by reason of the occurrence of any contingency, so long as such
contingency has not occurred) and (ii) with respect to an entity which is not a corporation, all securities of any class or series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, members of the body which is
most analogous to the board of directors of a corporation.  
      - 10 -  

</EX-10.26.24>

<EX-10.26.25>
 3
 d534096dex102625.htm
 EX-10.26.25

EX-10.26.25 

Exhibit 10.26.25      

PERFORMANCE SHARE PROGRAM   
  FEBRUARY 13, 2018   
  TARGET AWARD FOR PERFORMANCE PERIOD 18   
  PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT   
  AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS   
  FOR ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES ON THE CANADA PAYROLL   
 These Performance Share Unit Award Terms and Conditions describe terms and conditions of Performance Share Unit Awards, as part of the ConocoPhillips
Performance Share Program (the  Program ), granted under the 2014 Omnibus Stock and Performance Incentive Plan of ConocoPhillips (the  Plan ) by ConocoPhillips (the  Company ) to you as an eligible employee (the
 Employee ). These Terms and Conditions, together with the Award Summary given to each Employee receiving an Award, form the Award Agreement (the  Agreement ) relating to the Awards described. Subject to the Plan and this
Agreement, the Company grants to the Employee Performance Share Units. Individual awards will be as set forth in the Award Summary given to each Employee to whom an Award is granted. The Award Summary for each Employee is made a part of this
Agreement with regard to such Employee. The Award Summary may be modified at any time to reflect increased or decreased amounts of the Award due to promotion or demotion of the Employee and due to decisions made with regard to this Performance
Period 18 of the Program, including adjustments related to the performance of the Company and adjustments related to the performance of the Employee; provided, however, that after a Change of Control occurs, there shall be no decrease in the number
of Performance Share Units granted, except pursuant to the section titled  Detrimental Activities  below. Multiple book entry accounts may be used to reflect the total shares awarded under these Terms and Conditions. This and any other
administrative activities shall not be construed to alter these Terms and Conditions.      

AWARD : 
 Performance Share Unit (PSU) Award granted by the Authorized Party under the provisions of the Plan. The PSUs will be noted in a book entry account created for the Employee.    

PSU : 
 A unit evidencing the right to receive either one share of ConocoPhillips Stock, $0.01 par value, or the Fair Market Value thereof under the circumstances described in these Terms and Conditions.    
  VOTING RIGHTS : The named owner of the PSUs has no voting rights for the units, but is considered the beneficial
owner for all purposes including ownership and control reports such as the annual proxy statement.     DIVIDEND
EQUIVALENTS : PSUs shall accrue a dividend equivalent at such times as a dividend is paid on the common stock of the Company, par value of $.01 per share, which dividend equivalent shall be credited as reinvested in additional PSUs as of the date
such dividends are payable, and such additional PSUs shall be subject to these terms and conditions. The number of PSUs acquired through this reinvestment of dividend equivalents shall be  
      - 1 -  

calculated using the Fair Market Value at the time the dividend equivalent is accrued.   Accrued dividend equivalents shall be paid at the time of settlement of the PSUs as set forth in the
section titled  Settlement  below.     RETIREMENT PLAN EARNINGS : The issuance of these PSUs does not
constitute earnings under any retirement plan sponsored by a ConocoPhillips company. The value of the units at the time restrictions lapse also does not constitute earnings under any retirement plan sponsored by a ConocoPhillips company. Neither the
issuance of nor lapsing of restrictions on PSUs will have any impact on any retirement plans or any other compensation plan sponsored by a ConocoPhillips company.  
  TAX INFORMATION : For an Employee subject to U.S. tax laws, this matter is more thoroughly covered in the document
entitled  U.S. Tax Aspects of Restricted Stock Units.  Other Employees should consult their tax advisors. However, in general terms, under current tax law, the value of these units is not considered taxable income until the restrictions
lapse.     BENEFICIARY : In the event of the death of the named owner of these units prior to the lapsing of
restrictions for other reasons, such restrictions will lapse and shares of unrestricted common stock equal in number to the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) will be issued to the beneficiary or beneficiaries
designated by the named owner of the units at the same times and upon the same events as it would otherwise have been made in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below.   Such
beneficiary or beneficiaries must be set forth under a properly completed beneficiary designation form acceptable to the Administrator which is received by the Administrator prior to the death of the named owner. In absence of such a beneficiary
designation, the personal representative of the estate of the named owner or the person or persons to whom the Award shall have been validly transferred by the personal representative pursuant to will or the laws of descent and distribution shall
have the right to settlement of the Award to the same extent the named owner would have, had the named owner not died. No transfer of an Award, or of the unrestricted Stock or other proceeds of an Award, by beneficiary designation or by will or by
the laws of descent and distribution shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Administrator shall have been furnished with written notice thereof, with a copy of the beneficiary designation or will, and with such other evidence as the
Administrator may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer and the acceptance by the transferee or transferees of the terms and conditions of such Award.  
  CHANGE OF CONTROL : Upon a Change of Control, the following shall apply to the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from
accrued dividend equivalents):      

1. 
 Each Employee shall immediately become fully vested in such PSUs that are not assumed, or substituted for, by an acquirer in connection with the Change of Control, and such PSUs shall not thereafter be forfeitable for
any reason, except as set forth in the section titled  Detrimental Activities  below.    

2. 
 With regard to any other PSUs, each Employee shall become fully vested in such PSUs upon incurring a Severance following such Change of Control, and such PSUs shall not thereafter be forfeitable for any reason, except
as set forth in the section titled  Detrimental Activities  below.    
      - 2 -  

3. 
 In the event of vesting of PSUs pursuant to either paragraph 1 or 2 above, all restrictions and other limitations applicable to the PSUs shall lapse and the PSUs shall be settled in unrestricted Stock or cash at the
same times and upon the same events as it would otherwise have been made in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below.    
  RESTRICTIONS : The following restrictions relate to the PSUs:  
 The PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) will be held in escrow for the Employee. As provided herein, the
Employee will have all rights of economic ownership to such unit including the right to receive dividend equivalents as set forth in the section titled  Dividend Equivalents  above, except that the Employee shall not have the right to
sell, transfer, assign, or otherwise dispose of such units until the escrow is terminated (such restrictions being known as the  Transfer Restrictions ).  
 Unless postponed pursuant to an effective election, as described in the sections titled  Initial Deferral Election  and
 Subsequent Election  below, the escrow shall end on the earliest of any of the following occurrences, with Transfer Restrictions to lapse and settlement be made as set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below:  

1. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment as a result of Layoff of the Employee;    

2. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment after Retirement;    

3. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment due to death;    

4. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment following Disability of the Employee;    

5. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment following a Change of Control; or    
   In the absence of an effective election, as described in the
sections titled  Initial Deferral Election  and  Subsequent Election  below, the Transfer Restrictions shall lapse and the PSUs (including any such that are awarded after the Separation from Service of the Employee) shall be
settled in unrestricted Stock on the date that is the later of (a) the end of the escrow period and (b) the earliest of the Employee s death, February 20, 2021, or six months after the date of the Employee s Separation from
Service for a reason other than death; provided, however, that settlement shall not be made before February 20, 2021.  
  INITIAL DEFERRAL ELECTION : The Employee may elect on an election form delivered to the Authorized Party at a time
set by the Authorized Party (which shall be on or before December 31, 2017) to have the escrow for the PSUs continue and the Transfer Restrictions applicable to these PSUs continue and settlement of the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from
accrued dividend equivalents), in whole or in part, in unrestricted Stock postponed and made in either:      

1. 
 one lump sum payment settled six months after Separation from Service with the Company and its subsidiaries, or    
      - 3 -  

2. 
 in a series of annual installments, using a declining balance method, over a period of three, five, ten, or fifteen years after Separation from Service with the Company and its subsidiaries.    
 In the absence of such an election, the escrow will end and settlement shall be made in one lump sum payment in unrestricted Stock at the time
and in the manner set forth in the sections titled  Restrictions  above and  Settlement  below.  
  SUBSEQUENT ELECTION : The Employee may make an election to change the time or form of payment elected under the
Initial Election section above or the payment to be made under the Restrictions section above, but only if the following rules are satisfied:      

1. 
 The election to change the time or form of payment may not take effect until at least twelve months after the date on which such election is made;    

2. 
 Payment under such election may not be made earlier than at least five years from the date the payment would have otherwise been made or commenced;    

3. 
 An election may provide for either a lump sum payment or installment payments;    

4. 
 An election to receive payments in installments shall be treated as a single payment for purposes of these rules;    

5. 
 Installment payments may be made only annually, over a period of from one to fifteen years as elected;    

6. 
 The election may not result in an impermissible acceleration of payment prohibited under section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code;    

7. 
 No more than four such elections shall be permitted with respect to the PSUs   (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) subject to this Award; and    

8. 
 No payment may be made after the date that is twenty (20) years after the date of the Employee s Separation from Service.    
 If an election under this section becomes effective, the escrow and the Transfer Restrictions applicable to the PSUs (including any PSUs
arising from accrued dividend equivalents) shall continue until the time set in the election for the settlement of the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) in as unrestricted Stock.  
  SETTLEMENT : The Company shall, at the time stated above, register in the name of the Employee shares of Stock, free
of any restriction, equal to the number of the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents), and the related PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) shall be canceled. In all cases the Employee will
be responsible to pay all required withholding taxes associated with the Award. The Employee must pay any required withholding taxes by having shares equal in value to the applicable withholding taxes withheld by the Company (or such other method as
the Company, in its sole discretion, allows). The value of the shares withheld for this purpose shall be an amount consistent with the applicable laws and regulations. With regard to any fractional shares of Stock that might arise, the Company may
deliver to the Employee cash equal to the Fair Market Value of such fractional shares. If Australian tax law applies to the Employee, then an Award is a scheme to which Subdivision  83A-C  of the Income Tax
Assessment Act 1997 of Australia applies (subject to the conditions in that Act).  
      - 4 -  

The Fair Market Value of the Award received by the Employee shall be determined in accordance
with the definition and principles set forth in the Plan.     FORFEITURE : An Employee s right, title, and
interest in PSUs awarded under the Program (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) or derived from such Performance Share Units, or the ownership thereof, shall be forfeited if the Employee terminates employment prior to
termination of the escrow period for any reason other than Termination after Layoff, Termination after Retirement, Termination due to death, Termination following Disability, or Termination following a Change in Control; provided, however, any
transfer between the Company and any Subsidiary, or between Subsidiaries at the request of the Company or such Subsidiaries, shall not result in forfeiture. Furthermore, an Employee s right, title, and interest in Performance Share Units
awarded under the Program or derived from such Performance Share Units, or the ownership thereof, shall be forfeited if the Employee does not complete twelve full months of employment in the Performance Period, unless otherwise approved by the
Authorized Party. If the Employee completes twelve full months of employment in the Performance Period but terminates employment before the end of the Performance Period as a result of Layoff, Retirement, death or Disability, then the Award shall be
prorated based on the number of full months of employment completed in the Performance Period.     DETRIMENTAL
ACTIVITIES : If the Authorized Party determines that, subsequent to the grant of any Award but prior to any Change of Control, the Employee has engaged or is engaging in any activity which, in the sole judgment of the Authorized Party, is or may
be detrimental to the Company or a subsidiary, the Authorized Party may cancel all or part of the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) held in escrow pursuant to the Award granted to that Employee. Upon any Change of
Control, the Authorized Party may cancel all or part of the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) held in escrow pursuant to the Award granted to that Employee only upon a determination by the Authorized Party that the
Employee has given the Company Cause for such cancellation.    If the Authorized Party, in its or his sole discretion, determines that the
lapsing of restrictions on PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) held in escrow pursuant to any Award has the possibility of violating any law, regulation, or decree pertaining to the Company, any of its subsidiaries,
or the Employee, the Authorized Party may freeze or suspend the Employee s right to settlement or payout of the Award until such time as the lapse of restrictions would no longer, in the sole discretion of the Authorized Party, have the
possibility of violating such law, regulation, or decree.    Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Award is subject to
forfeiture or recoupment, in whole or in part, under applicable law, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act.  
  RECAPITALIZATION : Upon any change in the outstanding stock of the Company by reason of any stock dividend, stock
split, reverse stock split, recapitalization, reclassification, or other similar change, the Committee shall make corresponding adjustments to the PSUs (including any PSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents).  
      - 5 -  

DEFINITIONS :  
  Capitalized terms not defined below shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan under which the Award is granted.   
        Administrator            means the CEO, who is authorized, with regard to outstanding Awards, to
administer the Program and take action under this the Program. The CEO may delegate such of his administrative duties and responsibilities as he shall deem desirable.       
    Authorized Party      means the person who is authorized to approve an Award, exercise discretion, or take action under the
Administrative Procedure for the Performance Share Program and pursuant to the Program. With regard to Senior Officers, the Committee is the Authorized Party. With regard to other Employees, the Chief Executive Officer, acting as the Special Equity
Award Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, is the Authorized Party, although the Committee may act concurrently as the Authorized Party. The Authorized Party may delegate duties and responsibilities regarding the operation of the
Program, other than the authority to grant an Award.       Award    means any Performance Share Units granted to an Employee pursuant to
such applicable terms, conditions, and limitations as the Authorized Party may establish in order to fulfill the objectives of the Program.  
    Cause    means  Cause      as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of
ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan  .         Change of Control    has the meaning
set forth in Attachment A to these Terms and Conditions.       Chief Executive Officer      or 
    CEO      means the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.       Committee    means the Human Resources
and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, or any successor committee to it.       Company    means
ConocoPhillips, a Delaware corporation.       Disability      means a disability for which the employee in question has been
determined to be entitled to either (i) benefits under the applicable plan of long-term disability of the Company or its subsidiaries or (ii) disability benefits under the Social Security Act. In the absence of any such determination, the
Authorized Party may make a determination that the employee has a Disability.       Fair Market Value    means, as of a particular date,
the mean between the highest and lowest sales price per share of such Stock on the consolidated transaction reporting system for the principal national securities exchange on which shares of Stock are listed on that date, or, if there shall have
been no such sale so reported on that date, on the last preceding date on which such a sale was so reported, or, at the discretion of the Committee, the price prevailing on the exchange at a designated time.  
    Good Reason      means  Good Reason  as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of
ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan.       Grant Price    means the Fair Market Value for one
share of Stock as of the date of the grant of an Award. Grant price is not adjusted for any restrictions applicable to the Award.  
      - 6 -  

Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of ConocoPhillips    means the plan of that
name (or a successor plan to the plan of that name) in effect on an applicable Change of Control. If no plan of that name (or successor plan to the plan of that name) is in effect on an applicable Change of Control, it shall mean instead the plan of
that name in effect on the date of the Award.       Layoff    means an applicable Termination of Employment due to layoff under the
ConocoPhillips Severance Pay Plan, the ConocoPhillips Executive Severance Plan, or the ConocoPhillips Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan, or layoff or redundancy under any similar layoff or redundancy plan which the Company or its
subsidiaries may adopt from time to time. If all or any portion of the benefits under the redundancy or layoff plan are contingent on the employee s signing a general release of liability, such Termination shall not be considered as a
 Layoff  for purposes of this Award unless the employee executes and does not revoke a general release of liability, acceptable to the Company, under the terms of such layoff or redundancy plan. In order to be considered a layoff for
purposes of this Award, the Termination of Employment must also be considered a Separation from Service.       Participating Company   
includes ConocoPhillips and its 100% owned subsidiaries, including both those directly owned and those owned through subsidiaries, whose participation has been approved by the Authorized Party.  
    Performance Share Unit      or    PSU      means the type of restricted stock unit issued under the
Performance Share Program (as determined by the Authorized Party) that is subject to forfeiture provisions or that has certain restrictions attached to the ownership thereof.  
    Restricted Stock Unit      means a unit equal to one share of Stock (as determined by the Authorized Party) that is subject to
forfeiture provisions or that has certain restrictions attached to the ownership thereof.       Retirement      means Termination
at age 55 or older with a minimum of 5 years of service with a Participating Company; provided, however, that with regard to an Employee not on the United States payroll, the CEO may approve the use of a different definition. Service is defined by
the policies of the Participating Company.       Senior Officer    means the Chairman of the Board, the CEO, all other executive
officers of the Company (determined in accordance with the Company s custom and practice pursuant to section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), all other employees of the Company who report directly to the CEO and whose
salary grade is 23 or higher, and all other employees of the Company whose salary grade is 26 or higher.       Severance    means
 Severance  as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan, and shall also incorporate the meaning of the terms  Cause 
and  Good Reason  contained in the definition of  Severance  in such plan.       Stock      means shares of
common stock of the Company, par value $.01. Stock may also be referred to as  Common Stock.        Termination,   
     Termination of Employment,    and      Separation from Service    each mean  separation from service  as that term is used in section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.  
      - 7 -  

Attachment  A    
   Change of Control       The
following definitions apply to the Change of Control provision in Section 10 of the Plan.      Affiliate  shall have the
meaning ascribed to such term in  Rule 12b-2  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect at the time of determination.  
  Associate  shall mean, with reference to any Person, (a) any corporation, firm, partnership, association, unincorporated
organization or other entity (other than the Company or a subsidiary of the Company) of which such Person is an officer or general partner (or officer or general partner of a general partner) or is, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of
10% or more of any class of equity securities, (b) any trust or other estate in which such Person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such Person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity and (c) any relative or
spouse of such Person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same home as such Person.     Beneficial Owner  shall mean,
with reference to any securities, any Person if:    (a) such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates and Associates,
directly or indirectly, is the  beneficial owner  of (as determined pursuant to  Rule 13d-3  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect at the time of determination)
such securities or otherwise has the right to vote or dispose of such securities;    (b) such Person or any of such
Person s Affiliates and Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right or obligation to acquire such securities (whether such right or obligation is exercisable or effective immediately or only after the passage of time or the occurrence of
an event) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, other rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be
deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to  beneficially own,  (i) securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are
accepted for purchase or exchange or (ii) securities issuable upon exercise of Exempt Rights; or    (c) such Person or
any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates (i) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) with any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) that beneficially owns such securities for the
purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except as set forth in the proviso to subsection (a) of this definition) or disposing of such securities or (ii) is a member of a group (as that term is used in
 Rule 13d-5(b)  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act) that includes any other Person that beneficially owns such securities;  
 provided, however, that nothing in this definition shall cause a Person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities to be the Beneficial Owner of, or
to  beneficially own,  any securities acquired through such Person s participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of 40 days after the date of such acquisition. For purposes hereof,
 voting  a security shall include voting, granting a proxy, consenting or making a request or demand relating  
      - 8 -  

to corporate action (including, without limitation, a demand for a shareholder list, to call a shareholder meeting or to inspect corporate books and records) or otherwise giving an authorization
(within the meaning of section 14(a) of the Exchange Act) in respect of such security.    The terms  beneficially own  and
 beneficially owning  shall have meanings that are correlative to this definition of the term  Beneficial Owner.   
  Board  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Change of Control  shall mean any of the following occurring on or after January 1, 2018:  
 (a) any Person (other than an Exempt Person) shall become the Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock
then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding; provided, however, that no Change of Control shall be deemed to occur for purposes of this subsection (a) if such Person shall
become a Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding solely as a result of (i) any acquisition directly from the
Company or (ii) any acquisition by a Person pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of this definition;  
 (b) individuals who, as of January 1, 2018, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason
to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to January 1, 2018 whose election, or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at
least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; provided, further, that there shall be excluded, for this purpose, any such individual whose
initial assumption of office occurs as a result of any actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other
than the Board;    (c) the Company shall consummate a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange, consolidation, or
similar transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the acquisition of assets or securities of another entity by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries (a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) 50% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation, or common equity securities of an entity other than a
corporation, resulting from such Business Combination and the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of such corporation or other entity are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the Persons
who were the Beneficial Owners of the outstanding Common Stock immediately prior to such Business Combination in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the outstanding Common Stock,
(ii) no Person (excluding any Exempt Person or any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such Business Combination, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power
of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation, or common equity securities of an entity other than a corporation,
resulting from such Business  
      - 9 -  

Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of such corporation or other entity, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of
the corporation, or the body which is most analogous to the board of directors of a corporation if not a corporation, resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the initial agreement or initial action
by the Board providing for such Business Combination; or    (d) the shareholders of the Company shall approve a complete
liquidation or dissolution of the Company unless such liquidation or dissolution is approved as part of a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of this definition.  
  Common Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Company  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  
  Exempt Person  shall mean any of the Company, any entity controlled by the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust)
sponsored or maintained by the Company or any entity controlled by the Company, and any Person organized, appointed, or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such employee benefit plan.  
  Exempt Rights  shall mean any rights to purchase shares of Common Stock or other Voting Stock of the Company if at the time of the
issuance thereof such rights are not separable from such Common Stock or other Voting Stock ( i.e. , are not transferable otherwise than in connection with a transfer of the underlying Common Stock or other Voting Stock), except upon the
occurrence of a contingency, whether such rights exist as of January 1, 2018 or are thereafter issued by the Company as a dividend on shares of Common Stock or other Voting Securities or otherwise.  
  Person  shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust, unincorporated organization, or other
entity.     Voting Stock  shall mean, (1) with respect to a corporation, all securities of such corporation of any class or
series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, directors of such corporation (excluding any class or series that would be entitled so to vote by reason of the occurrence of any contingency, so long as such
contingency has not occurred) and (ii) with respect to an entity which is not a corporation, all securities of any class or series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, members of the body which is
most analogous to the board of directors of a corporation.  
      - 10 -  

</EX-10.26.25>

<EX-10.27.12>
 4
 d534096dex102712.htm
 EX-10.27.12

EX-10.27.12 

Exhibit 10.27.12      

EXECUTIVE RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT PROGRAM   
  FEBRUARY 13, 2018   
  EXECUTIVE RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT   
  AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS     These
Executive Restricted Stock Unit Award Terms and Conditions describe terms and conditions of Executive Restricted Stock Unit Awards, as part of the ConocoPhillips Executive Restricted Stock Unit Program (the  Program ), granted under the
2014 Omnibus Stock and Performance Incentive Plan of ConocoPhillips (referred to as the Plan) by ConocoPhillips (the  Company ) to you as an eligible employee (the  Employee ). These Terms and Conditions, together with the Award
Summary given to each Employee receiving an Award, form the Award Agreement (the  Agreement ) relating to the Awards described. Subject to the Plan and this Agreement, the Company grants to the Employee Executive Restricted Stock Units.
Individual awards will be as set forth in the Award Summary given to each Employee to whom an Award is granted. The Award Summary for each Employee is made a part of this Agreement with regard to such Employee. Multiple book entry accounts may be
used to reflect the total shares awarded under these Terms and Conditions. This and any other administrative activities shall not be construed to alter these Terms and Conditions.  
  AWARD : Executive Restricted Stock Unit (ERSU) Award granted by the Authorized Party under the provisions of the Plan. The ERSUs will be noted in a book
entry account created for the Employee.     ERSU : A unit evidencing the right to receive either one share of ConocoPhillips Stock, $.01 par value, or
the Fair Market Value thereof under the circumstances described in these Terms and Conditions.     GRANT DATE AND PRICE : The Grant Date is
  February         13, 2018  . The Grant Price is set forth on the Award Summary given to each Employee to whom an award is granted.  
  VOTING RIGHTS : The named owner of the ERSUs has no voting rights for the units, but is considered the beneficial owner for all purposes including
ownership and control reports such as the annual proxy statement.     DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS : ERSUs shall accrue a dividend equivalent at such times as
a dividend is paid on the common stock of the Company, par value of $.01 per share, which dividend equivalent shall be credited as reinvested in additional ERSUs as of the date such dividends are payable, and such additional ERSUs shall be subject
to these terms and conditions. The number of ERSUs acquired through this reinvestment of dividend equivalents shall be calculated using the Fair Market Value at the time the dividend equivalent is accrued. ERSUs acquired from dividend equivalents
shall be paid at the time and in the manner of settlement of the ERSUs as set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below.     RETIREMENT
PLAN EARNINGS : The issuance of these ERSUs does not constitute earnings under any retirement plan sponsored by a ConocoPhillips company. The value of the units at the time restrictions lapse also does not constitute earnings under any retirement
plan sponsored by a ConocoPhillips company. Neither the issuance of nor lapsing of restrictions on ERSUs will have any impact on any retirement plans or any other compensation plan sponsored by a ConocoPhillips company.  
      - 1 -  

TAX INFORMATION : For an Employee subject to U.S. tax laws, this matter is more thoroughly covered in the
document entitled  U.S. Tax Aspects of Restricted Stock Units.  However, in general terms, under current U.S. tax law, the value of these units is not considered taxable income until the restrictions lapse.  
  RESTRICTIONS : The following restrictions relate to the ERSUs:  
 The ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) will be held in escrow for the Employee. As provided herein, the Employee will have
all rights of economic ownership to such units including the right to receive dividend equivalents as set forth in the section titled  Dividend Equivalents  above, except that the Employee shall not have the right to sell, transfer,
assign, or otherwise dispose of such units until the escrow is terminated (such restrictions being known as the  Transfer Restrictions ).  
 Unless postponed pursuant to an effective election, as described in the section titled  Initial Deferral Election  below, the escrow shall end on
the earliest of any of the following occurrences, with Transfer Restrictions to lapse and settlement be made as set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below:      

1. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment as a result of Layoff;    

2. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment after Retirement;    

3. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment due to death;    

4. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment following Disability of the Employee;    

5. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment following a Change of Control; or    
   The ERSUs eligible for lapsing of Transfer Restrictions and settlement shall be
subject to the cancellation and proration provisions set forth in the section titled  Termination of Employment  below.    In the absence of an
effective election, as described in the section titled  Initial Deferral Election  below, the Transfer Restrictions shall lapse and the remaining ERSUs (including any such that are awarded after the Separation from Service of the Employee)
shall be settled in cash on the date that is the later of (a) the end of the escrow period and (b) the earliest of the Employee s death, February 13, 2021, or six months after the date of the Employee s Separation from
Service for a reason other than death.     TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT:       

1. 
 General Rule for Termination. If, prior to the date on which restrictions lapse in accordance with the schedule set forth in the Award, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated for
any reason except death, Disability, Retirement, or Layoff, any ERSUs remaining in escrow pursuant to such Award (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) shall be canceled and all rights thereunder shall cease; provided,
however, that the Authorized Party may, in its or his sole discretion, determine that all or any portion of an Award shall not be canceled due to Termination of Employment.    

2. 
 Layoff Within Six Months. If, prior to a date six months from the date an Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Layoff, such Award (including any
ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) shall be canceled and all rights thereunder shall cease.        

3. 
   Layoff Within One Year. If, on or after a date six months from the date an Award is granted but prior to a date
one year from the date an Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Layoff, the Employee shall retain a prorated number of the Award shares or units granted. The number of Award
shares     
      - 2 -  

or units retained will be computed by multiplying the original number of Award shares or units granted by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full months of employment from the
first day of the month in which the Award was granted until the date the employee is terminated and the denominator of which is 12. Such calculation shall be rounded down to the nearest whole share. The ERSUs arising from dividend equivalents shall
be recalculated using the prorated award as the original number of Award shares. Settlement shall be made in accordance with the provisions set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below.    

4. 
 Layoff After One Year. If, on or after a date one year from the date an Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Layoff, the Employee shall retain
all rights provided by the Award at the time of such Termination of Employment (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents). Settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the section titled
 Settlement  below.        

5. 
 Retirement Within Six Months. If, prior to a date six months from the date an Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Retirement, such Award
(including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) shall be canceled and all rights thereunder shall cease.        

6. 
 Retirement After Six Months. If, on or after a date six months after the Grant Date of an Award, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Retirement, the Employee
shall retain all rights provided by the Award at the time of such Termination of Employment (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents). Settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the
section titled  Settlement  below.        

7. 
 Disability. If, after the date the Award is granted, an Employee shall terminate employment following Disability of the Employee, the Employee shall retain all rights provided by the Award at the time of such
Termination of Employment (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents). Settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below.    

8. 
 Death. If, after the date an Award is granted, an Employee shall die while in the employ of a Participating Company ,  or after Termination of Employment by reason of Retirement, Disability, or Layoff (and prior to
the cancellation of the Award), the restrictions on the Award shall lapse on the later of the date of death and the date of Termination of the Employee from the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries, and settlement shall be made in accordance
with the settlement provisions below. Settlement shall be made to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the named owner in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below. Such
beneficiary or beneficiaries must be set forth under a properly completed beneficiary designation form acceptable to the Administrator which is received by the Administrator prior to the death of the named owner. In absence of such a beneficiary
designation, the personal representative of the estate of the named owner or the person or persons to whom the Award shall have been validly transferred by the personal representative pursuant to will or the laws of descent and distribution shall
have the right to settlement of the Award. No transfer of an Award, or of the unrestricted Stock or other proceeds of an Award, by beneficiary designation or by will or by the laws of descent and distribution shall be effective to bind the Company
unless the Administrator shall have been furnished with written notice thereof, with a copy of the beneficiary designation or will, and with such other evidence as the Administrator may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer and
the acceptance by the transferee or transferees of the terms and conditions of such Award.    
      - 3 -  

9. 
 Divestiture, Outsourcing, or Move to Joint Venture. If, after the date the Award is granted, an Employee ceases to be employed by Participating Company as a result of (a) the outsourcing of a function, (b) the
sale or transfer of all or a portion of the equity interest of such Participating Company (removing it from the controlled group of companies of which the Company is a part), (c) the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of such
Participating Company to another employer outside of the controlled group of corporations (whether the Employee is offered employment or accepts employment with the other employer), (d) the Termination of the Employee by a Participating Company
followed by employment within a reasonable time with a company or other entity in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least a 50% interest, or (e) any other sale of assets determined by the Authorized Party to be considered a
divestiture under this Program, the Authorized Party may, in its or his sole discretion, determine that all or a portion of any such Award shall not be canceled. In such cases, the restrictions on the Award shall lapse on the date of Termination of
the Employee from the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries, and settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below.    

10. 
 Change of Control: Upon a Change of Control, the following shall apply to the ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents):    

(a) 
 Each Employee shall immediately become fully vested in such ERSUs that are not assumed, or substituted for, by an acquirer in connection with the Change of Control, and such ERSUs shall not thereafter be forfeitable for
any reason, except as set forth in the section titled  Detrimental Activities  below.        

(b) 
 With regard to any other ERSUs, each Employee shall become fully vested in such ERSUs upon incurring a Severance following such Change of Control, and such ERSUs shall not thereafter be forfeitable for any reason,
except as set forth in the section titled  Detrimental Activities  below.        

(c) 
 In the event of vesting of ERSUs pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, all restrictions and other limitations applicable to the ERSUs shall lapse and the ERSUs shall be settled in accordance with the
settlement provisions set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below.       INITIAL DEFERRAL ELECTION : If the Employee is
eligible for participation in the Key Employee Deferred Compensation Plan of ConocoPhillips (KEDCP), the Employee may elect on an election form delivered to the Authorized Party at a time set by the Authorized Party (which shall be on or before
December 31, 2017) to have the settlement in cash of the ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents), in whole or in part, replaced with an account in lieu thereof to be created in KEDCP, with distribution from
KEDCP to be made in accordance with the election of the Employee and any subsequent elections allowed under the provisions of KEDCP. Upon creation of such an account, the related ERSUs (including any ERUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents)
shall be canceled, and shall no longer be owed or payable, except through KEDCP.    In the absence of such an election, the escrow will end and settlement
shall be made in one lump sum payment in cash at the time and in the manner set forth in the sections titled  Restrictions  above and  Settlement  below.  
      - 4 -  

SETTLEMENT : Unless deferred as described in the section titled  Initial Deferral Election 
above, the Company shall, at the time stated above, deliver to each Employee an amount in cash equal to the Fair Market Value of the ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents), and the related ERSUs (including any ERSUs
arising from accrued dividend equivalents) shall be canceled. In all cases the Employee will be responsible to pay all required withholding taxes associated with the Award, including cases where a withholding tax obligation arises prior to the
lapsing of Transfer Restrictions set forth in the section titled  Restrictions  above. The Employee must pay any required withholding taxes by having cash or shares equal in value to the applicable withholding taxes withheld by the Company
(or such other method as the Company, in its sole discretion, allows). The value of the cash or shares withheld for this purpose shall be an amount consistent with the applicable laws and regulations. If Australian tax law applies to the Employee,
then an Award is a scheme to which Subdivision  83A-C  of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 of Australia applies (subject to the conditions in that Act).  
 The Fair Market Value of the Award received by the Employee shall be determined in accordance with the definition and principles set forth in the Plan.  
  FORFEITURE : An Employee s right, title, and interest in ERSUs awarded under the Program (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend
equivalents) or derived from such ERSUs, or the ownership thereof, shall be forfeited if the Employee terminates employment prior to termination of the escrow period for any reason other than Termination after Layoff, Termination after Retirement,
Termination due to death, Termination following Disability, or Termination following a Change in Control; provided, however, any transfer between the Company and any Subsidiary, or between Subsidiaries at the request of the Company or such
Subsidiaries, shall not result in forfeiture. Furthermore, an Employee s right, title, and interest in ERSUs awarded under the Program (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) or derived from such ERSUs, or the ownership
thereof, shall be forfeited if the Employee terminates employment by reason of Layoff or Retirement and does not complete six full months of employment after the date of the grant of the Award, unless otherwise approved by the Authorized Party.  
  DETRIMENTAL ACTIVITIES : If the Authorized Party determines that, subsequent to the grant of any Award but prior to any Change of Control, the Employee
has engaged or is engaging in any activity which, in the sole judgment of the Authorized Party, is or may be detrimental to the Company or a subsidiary, the Authorized Party may cancel all or part of the ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from
accrued dividend equivalents) held in escrow pursuant to the Award granted to that Employee. Upon any Change of Control, the Authorized Party may cancel all or part of the ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) held in
escrow pursuant to the Award granted to that Employee only upon a determination by the Authorized Party that the Employee has given the Company Cause for such cancellation.  
 If the Authorized Party, in its or his sole discretion, determines that the lapsing of restrictions on ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from accrued
dividend equivalents) held in escrow pursuant to any Award has the possibility of violating any law, regulation, or decree pertaining to the Company, any of its subsidiaries, or the Employee, the Authorized Party may freeze or suspend the
Employee s right to settlement or payout of the Award until such time as the lapse of restrictions would no longer, in the sole discretion of the Authorized Party, have the possibility of violating such law, regulation, or decree.  
 Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Award is subject to forfeiture or recoupment, in whole or in part, under applicable law, including the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act.     RECAPITALIZATION : Upon any change in the outstanding stock of the Company by reason of any stock
dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, recapitalization, reclassification, or other similar change, the Committee shall make corresponding adjustments to the ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents).  
      - 5 -  

DEFINITIONS :  
  Capitalized terms not defined below shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan under which the Award is granted.   
    Administrator    means the CEO, who is authorized, with regard to outstanding Awards, to administer the Program and take action under
this the Program. The CEO may delegate such of his administrative duties and responsibilities as he shall deem desirable.       
    Authorized Party      means the person who is authorized to approve an Award, exercise discretion, or take action under the
Administrative Procedure for the Executive Restricted Stock Unit Program and pursuant to the Program. With regard to Senior Officers, the Committee is the Authorized Party. With regard to other Employees, the Chief Executive Officer, acting as the
Special Equity Award Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, is the Authorized Party, although the Committee may act concurrently as the Authorized Party. The Authorized Party may delegate duties and responsibilities regarding the
operation of the Program, other than the authority to grant an Award.       Award    means any Executive Restricted Stock Units granted
to an Employee pursuant to such applicable terms, conditions, and limitations as the Authorized Party may establish in order to fulfill the objectives of the Program.  
    Cause    means  Cause      as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of
ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan  .         Change of Control    has the meaning
set forth in Attachment A to these Terms and Conditions.       Chief Executive Officer      or 
    CEO      means the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.       Committee    means the Human Resources
and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, or any successor committee to it.       Company    means
ConocoPhillips, a Delaware corporation.       Disability      means a disability for which the employee in question has been
determined to be entitled to either (i) benefits under the applicable plan of long-term disability of the Company or its subsidiaries or (ii) disability benefits under the Social Security Act. In the absence of any such determination, the
Authorized Party may make a determination that the employee has a Disability.       Fair Market Value    means, as of a particular date,
the mean between the highest and lowest sales price per share of such Stock on the consolidated transaction reporting system for the principal national securities exchange on which shares of Stock are listed on that date, or, if there shall have
been no such sale so reported on that date, on the last preceding date on which such a sale was so reported, or, at the discretion of the Committee, the price prevailing on the exchange at a designated time.  
    Good Reason      means  Good Reason  as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of
ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan.       Grant Price    means the Fair Market Value for one
share of Stock as of the date of the grant of an Award. Grant price is not adjusted for any restrictions applicable to the Award.       Key
Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of ConocoPhillips    means the plan of that name (or a successor plan to the plan of that name) in effect on an applicable Change of Control. If no plan of that name (or successor plan to the plan
of that name) is in effect on an applicable Change of Control, it shall mean instead the plan of that name in effect on the date of the Award.  
      - 6 -  

Layoff    means an applicable Termination of Employment due to layoff under the
ConocoPhillips Severance Pay Plan, the ConocoPhillips Executive Severance Plan, or the ConocoPhillips Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan, or layoff or redundancy under any similar layoff or redundancy plan which the Company or its
subsidiaries may adopt from time to time. If all or any portion of the benefits under the redundancy or layoff plan are contingent on the employee s signing a general release of liability, such Termination shall not be considered as a
 Layoff  for purposes of this Award unless the employee executes and does not revoke a general release of liability, acceptable to the Company, under the terms of such layoff or redundancy plan. In order to be considered a layoff for
purposes of this Award, the Termination of Employment must also be considered a Separation from Service.       Participating Company   
includes ConocoPhillips and its 100% owned subsidiaries, including both those directly owned and those owned through subsidiaries, whose participation has been approved by the Authorized Party.  
    Executive Restricted Stock Unit      or    ERSU      means the type of restricted stock unit issued under
the Executive Restricted Stock Unit Program (as determined by the Authorized Party) that is subject to forfeiture provisions or that has certain restrictions attached to the ownership thereof.  
    Restricted Stock Unit      means a unit equal to one share of Stock (as determined by the Authorized Party) that is subject to
forfeiture provisions or that has certain restrictions attached to the ownership thereof.       Retirement      means Termination
at age 55 or older with a minimum of 5 years of service with a Participating Company; provided, however, that with regard to an Employee not on the United States payroll, the CEO may approve the use of a different definition. Service is defined by
the policies of the Participating Company.       Senior Officer    means the Chairman of the Board, the CEO, all other executive
officers of the Company (determined in accordance with the Company s custom and practice pursuant to section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), all other employees of the Company who report directly to the CEO and whose
salary grade is 23 or higher, and all other employees of the Company whose salary grade is 26 or higher.       Severance    means
 Severance  as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan, and shall also incorporate the meaning of the terms  Cause 
and  Good Reason  contained in the definition of  Severance  in such plan.       Stock      means shares of
common stock of the Company, par value $.01. Stock may also be referred to as  Common Stock.        Termination,   
     Termination of Employment,    and      Separation from Service    each mean  separation from service  as that term is used in section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.  
      - 7 -  

Attachment A   
   Change of Control       The
following definitions apply to the Change of Control provision of the Plan.      Affiliate  shall have the meaning ascribed to
such term in  Rule 12b-2  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect at the time of determination.  
  Associate  shall mean, with reference to any Person, (a) any corporation, firm, partnership, association, unincorporated
organization or other entity (other than the Company or a subsidiary of the Company) of which such Person is an officer or general partner (or officer or general partner of a general partner) or is, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of
10% or more of any class of equity securities, (b) any trust or other estate in which such Person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such Person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity and (c) any relative or
spouse of such Person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same home as such Person.     Beneficial Owner  shall mean,
with reference to any securities, any Person if:    (a) such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates and Associates,
directly or indirectly, is the  beneficial owner  of (as determined pursuant to  Rule 13d-3  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect at the time of determination)
such securities or otherwise has the right to vote or dispose of such securities;    (b) such Person or any of such
Person s Affiliates and Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right or obligation to acquire such securities (whether such right or obligation is exercisable or effective immediately or only after the passage of time or the occurrence of
an event) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, other rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be
deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to  beneficially own,  (i) securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are
accepted for purchase or exchange or (ii) securities issuable upon exercise of Exempt Rights; or    (c) such Person or
any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates (i) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) with any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) that beneficially owns such securities for the
purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except as set forth in the proviso to subsection (a) of this definition) or disposing of such securities or (ii) is a member of a group (as that term is used in
 Rule 13d-5(b)  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act) that includes any other Person that beneficially owns such securities;  
 provided, however, that nothing in this definition shall cause a Person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities to be the Beneficial Owner of, or
to  beneficially own,  any securities acquired through such Person s participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of 40 days after the date of such acquisition. For purposes hereof,
 voting  a security shall include voting, granting a proxy, consenting or making a request or demand relating to corporate action (including, without limitation, a demand for a shareholder list, to call a shareholder meeting or to inspect
corporate books and records) or otherwise giving an authorization (within the meaning of section 14(a) of the Exchange Act) in respect of such security.  
      - 8 -  

The terms  beneficially own  and  beneficially owning  shall have meanings
that are correlative to this definition of the term  Beneficial Owner.      Board  shall have the meaning set forth in
the Plan.     Change of Control  shall mean any of the following occurring on or after January 1, 2018:  
 (a) any Person (other than an Exempt Person) shall become the Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock
then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding; provided, however, that no Change of Control shall be deemed to occur for purposes of this subsection (a) if such Person shall
become a Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding solely as a result of (i) any acquisition directly from the
Company or (ii) any acquisition by a Person pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of this definition;  
 (b) individuals who, as of January 1, 2018, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason
to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to January 1, 2018 whose election, or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at
least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; provided, further, that there shall be excluded, for this purpose, any such individual whose
initial assumption of office occurs as a result of any actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other
than the Board;    (c) the Company shall consummate a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange, consolidation, or
similar transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the acquisition of assets or securities of another entity by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries (a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) 50% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation, or common equity securities of an entity other than a
corporation, resulting from such Business Combination and the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of such corporation or other entity are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the Persons
who were the Beneficial Owners of the outstanding Common Stock immediately prior to such Business Combination in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the outstanding Common Stock,
(ii) no Person (excluding any Exempt Person or any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such Business Combination, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power
of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation, or common equity securities of an entity other than a corporation,
resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of such corporation or other entity, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation, or the
body which is most analogous to the board of directors of a corporation if not a corporation, resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the initial agreement or initial action by the Board providing
for such Business Combination; or  
      - 9 -  

(d) the shareholders of the Company shall approve a complete liquidation or
dissolution of the Company unless such liquidation or dissolution is approved as part of a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of this definition.  
  Common Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Company  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  
  Exempt Person  shall mean any of the Company, any entity controlled by the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust)
sponsored or maintained by the Company or any entity controlled by the Company, and any Person organized, appointed, or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such employee benefit plan.  
  Exempt Rights  shall mean any rights to purchase shares of Common Stock or other Voting Stock of the Company if at the time of the
issuance thereof such rights are not separable from such Common Stock or other Voting Stock ( i.e. , are not transferable otherwise than in connection with a transfer of the underlying Common Stock or other Voting Stock), except upon the
occurrence of a contingency, whether such rights exist as of January 1, 2018 or are thereafter issued by the Company as a dividend on shares of Common Stock or other Voting Securities or otherwise.  
  Person  shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust, unincorporated organization, or other
entity.     Voting Stock  shall mean, (1) with respect to a corporation, all securities of such corporation of any class or
series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, directors of such corporation (excluding any class or series that would be entitled so to vote by reason of the occurrence of any contingency, so long as such
contingency has not occurred) and (ii) with respect to an entity which is not a corporation, all securities of any class or series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, members of the body which is
most analogous to the board of directors of a corporation.  
      - 10 -  

</EX-10.27.12>

<EX-10.27.13>
 5
 d534096dex102713.htm
 EX-10.27.13

EX-10.27.13 

Exhibit 10.27.13      

EXECUTIVE RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT PROGRAM   
  FEBRUARY 13, 2018   
  EXECUTIVE RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT   
  AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS   
  FOR ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES ON THE CANADA PAYROLL   
 These Executive Restricted Stock Unit Award Terms and Conditions describe terms and conditions of Executive Restricted Stock Unit Awards, as part of the
ConocoPhillips Executive Restricted Stock Unit Program (the  Program ), granted under the 2014 Omnibus Stock and Performance Incentive Plan of ConocoPhillips (referred to as the Plan) by ConocoPhillips (the  Company ) to you as
an eligible employee (the  Employee ). These Terms and Conditions, together with the Award Summary given to each Employee receiving an Award, form the Award Agreement (the  Agreement ) relating to the Awards described. Subject to
the Plan and this Agreement, the Company grants to the Employee Executive Restricted Stock Units. Individual awards will be as set forth in the Award Summary given to each Employee to whom an Award is granted. The Award Summary for each Employee is
made a part of this Agreement with regard to such Employee. Multiple book entry accounts may be used to reflect the total shares awarded under these Terms and Conditions. This and any other administrative activities shall not be construed to alter
these Terms and Conditions.      

AWARD : 
 Executive Restricted Stock Unit (ERSU) Award granted by the Authorized Party under the provisions of the Plan. The ERSUs will be noted in a book entry account created for the Employee.    

ERSU : 
 A unit evidencing the right to receive either one share of ConocoPhillips Stock, $0.01 par value, or the Fair Market Value thereof under the circumstances described in these Terms and Conditions.    
  GRANT DATE AND PRICE : The Grant Date is   February         13, 2018  . The Grant
Price is set forth on the Award Summary given to each Employee to whom an award is granted.     VOTING RIGHTS : The
named owner of the ERSUs has no voting rights for the units, but is considered the beneficial owner for all purposes including ownership and control reports such as the annual proxy statement.  
  DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS : ERSUs shall accrue a dividend equivalent at such times as a dividend is paid on the common
stock of the Company, par value of $.01 per share, which dividend equivalent shall be credited as reinvested in additional ERSUs as of the date such dividends are payable, and such additional ERSUs shall be subject to these terms and conditions. The
number of ERSUs acquired through this reinvestment of dividend equivalents shall be calculated using the Fair Market Value at the time the dividend equivalent is accrued. ERSUs acquired from dividend equivalents shall be paid at the time and in the
manner of settlement of the ERSUs as set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below.  
      - 1 -  

RETIREMENT PLAN EARNINGS : The issuance of these ERSUs does not
constitute earnings under any retirement plan sponsored by a ConocoPhillips company. The value of the units at the time restrictions lapse also does not constitute earnings under any retirement plan sponsored by a ConocoPhillips company. Neither the
issuance of nor lapsing of restrictions on ERSUs will have any impact on any retirement plans or any other compensation plan sponsored by a ConocoPhillips company.  
  TAX INFORMATION : For an Employee subject to U.S. tax laws, this matter is more thoroughly covered in the document
entitled  U.S. Tax Aspects of Restricted Stock Units.  However, in general terms, under current U.S. tax law, the value of these units is not considered taxable income until the restrictions lapse.  
  RESTRICTIONS : The following restrictions relate to the ERSUs:  
 The ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) will be held in escrow for the Employee. As provided herein, the
Employee will have all rights of economic ownership to such units including the right to receive dividend equivalents as set forth in the section titled  Dividend Equivalents  above, except that the Employee shall not have the right to
sell, transfer, assign, or otherwise dispose of such units until the escrow is terminated (such restrictions being known as the  Transfer Restrictions ).  
 The escrow shall end on the earliest of any of the following occurrences, with Transfer Restrictions to lapse and settlement be made as set
forth in the section titled  Settlement  below:      

1. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment as a result of Layoff of the Employee;    

2. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment after Retirement;    

3. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment due to death;    

4. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment following Disability of the Employee;    

5. 
 The Termination of the Employee s employment following a Change of Control; or    
   The ERSUs eligible for lapsing of Transfer Restrictions and
settlement shall be subject to the cancellation and proration provisions set forth in the section titled  Termination of Employment  below.  
 The Transfer Restrictions shall lapse and the ERSUs (including any such that are awarded after the Separation from Service of the Employee)
shall be settled on the date that is the later of (a) the end of the escrow period and (b) the earliest of the Employee s death, February 20, 2021, or six months after the date of the Employee s Separation from Service for a
reason other than death.  
      - 2 -  

TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT:   

1. 
 General Rule for Termination. If, prior to the date on which restrictions lapse in accordance with the schedule set forth in the Award, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated for
any reason except death, Disability, Retirement, or Layoff, any ERSUs remaining in escrow pursuant to such Award (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) shall be canceled and all rights thereunder shall cease; provided,
however, that the Authorized Party may, in its or his sole discretion, determine that all or any portion of an Award shall not be canceled due to Termination of Employment.    

2. 
 Layoff Within Six Months. If, prior to a date six months from the date an Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Layoff, such Award (including any
ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) shall be canceled and all rights thereunder shall cease.        

3. 
 Layoff Within One Year. If, on or after a date six months from the date an Award is granted but prior to a date one year from the date an Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company
shall be terminated by reason of Layoff, the Employee shall retain a prorated number of the Award shares or units granted. The number of Award shares or units retained will be computed by multiplying the original number of Award shares or units
granted by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full months of employment from the first day of the month in which the Award was granted until the date the employee is terminated and the denominator of which is 12. Such calculation
shall be rounded down to the nearest whole share. The ERSUs arising from dividend equivalents shall be recalculated using the prorated award as the original number of Award shares. Settlement shall be made in accordance with the provisions set forth
in the section titled  Settlement  below.        

4. 
 Layoff After One Year. If, on or after a date one year from the date an Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Layoff, the Employee shall retain
all rights provided by the Award at the time of such Termination of Employment (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents). Settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the section titled
 Settlement  below.        

5. 
 Retirement Within Six Months. If, prior to a date six months from the date an Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Retirement, such Award
(including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) shall be canceled and all rights thereunder shall cease.        

6. 
 Retirement After Six Months. If, on or after a date six months after the Grant Date of an Award, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Retirement, the Employee
shall retain all rights provided by the Award at the time of such Termination of Employment (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents). Settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the
section titled  Settlement  below.        

7. 
 Disability. If, after the date the Award is granted, an Employee shall terminate employment following Disability of the Employee, the Employee shall retain all rights provided by the Award at the time of such
Termination of Employment (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents). Settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below.    
      - 3 -  

8. 
 Death. If, after the date an Award is granted, an Employee shall die while in the employ of a Participating Company ,  or after Termination of Employment by reason of Retirement, Disability, or Layoff (and prior to
the cancellation of the Award), the restrictions on the Award shall lapse on the later of the date of death and the date of Termination of the Employee from the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries, and settlement shall be made in accordance
with the settlement provisions below. Settlement shall be made to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the named owner in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below. Such
beneficiary or beneficiaries must be set forth under a properly completed beneficiary designation form acceptable to the Administrator which is received by the Administrator prior to the death of the named owner. In absence of such a beneficiary
designation, the personal representative of the estate of the named owner or the person or persons to whom the Award shall have been validly transferred by the personal representative pursuant to will or the laws of descent and distribution shall
have the right to settlement of the Award. No transfer of an Award, or of the unrestricted Stock or other proceeds of an Award, by beneficiary designation or by will or by the laws of descent and distribution shall be effective to bind the Company
unless the Administrator shall have been furnished with written notice thereof, with a copy of the beneficiary designation or will, and with such other evidence as the Administrator may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer and
the acceptance by the transferee or transferees of the terms and conditions of such Award.        

9. 
 Divestiture, Outsourcing, or Move to Joint Venture. If, after the date the Award is granted, an Employee ceases to be employed by Participating Company as a result of (a) the outsourcing of a function, (b) the
sale or transfer of all or a portion of the equity interest of such Participating Company (removing it from the controlled group of companies of which the Company is a part), (c) the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of such
Participating Company to another employer outside of the controlled group of corporations (whether the Employee is offered employment or accepts employment with the other employer), (d) the Termination of the Employee by a Participating Company
followed by employment within a reasonable time with a company or other entity in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least a 50% interest, or (e) any other sale of assets determined by the Authorized Party to be considered a
divestiture under this Program, the Authorized Party may, in its or his sole discretion, determine that all or a portion of any such Award shall not be canceled. In such cases, the restrictions on the Award shall lapse on the date of Termination of
the Employee from the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries, and settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below.    

10. 
 Change of Control: Upon a Change of Control, the following shall apply to the ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents):    

(a) 
 Each Employee shall immediately become fully vested in such ERSUs that are not assumed, or substituted for, by an acquirer in connection with the Change of Control, and such ERSUs shall not thereafter be forfeitable for
any reason, except as set forth in the section titled  Detrimental Activities  below.        

(b) 
 With regard to any other ERSUs, each Employee shall become fully vested in such ERSUs upon incurring a Severance following such Change of Control, and such ERSUs shall not thereafter be forfeitable for any reason,
except as set forth in the section titled  Detrimental Activities  below.    
      - 4 -  

(c) 
 In the event of vesting of ERSUs pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, all restrictions and other limitations applicable to the ERSUs shall lapse and the ERSUs shall be settled in accordance with the
settlement provisions set forth in the section titled  Settlement  below.       SETTLEMENT :
The Company shall, at the time stated above, register in the name of the Employee shares of Stock, free of any restriction, equal to the number of the ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents), and the related ERSUs
(including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) shall be canceled. In all cases the Employee will be responsible to pay all required withholding taxes associated with the Award, including cases where a withholding tax obligation
arises prior to the lapsing of Transfer Restrictions set forth in the section titled  Restrictions  above. The Employee must pay any required withholding taxes by having shares equal in value to the applicable withholding taxes withheld by
the Company (or such other method as the Company, in its sole discretion, allows). The value of the shares withheld for this purpose shall be an amount consistent with the applicable laws and regulations. With regard to any fractional shares of
Stock that might arise, the Company may deliver to the Employee cash equal to the Fair Market Value of such fractional shares. If Australian tax law applies to the Employee, then an Award is a scheme to which Subdivision  83A-C  of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 of Australia applies (subject to the conditions in that Act).  
 The Fair Market Value of the Award received by the Employee shall be determined in accordance with the definition and principles set forth in
the Plan.     FORFEITURE : An Employee s right, title, and interest in ERSUs awarded under the Program or
derived from such ERSUs, or the ownership thereof, shall be forfeited if the Employee terminates employment prior to termination of the escrow period for any reason other than Termination after Layoff, Termination after Retirement, Termination due
to death, Termination following Disability, or Termination following a Change in Control; provided, however, any transfer between the Company and any Subsidiary, or between Subsidiaries at the request of the Company or such Subsidiaries, shall not
result in forfeiture. Furthermore, an Employee s right, title, and interest in ERSUs awarded under the Program or derived from such ERSUs, or the ownership thereof, shall be forfeited if the Employee terminates employment by reason of Layoff or
Retirement and does not complete six full months of employment after the date of the grant of the Award, unless otherwise approved by the Authorized Party.  
  DETRIMENTAL ACTIVITIES : If the Authorized Party determines that, subsequent to the grant of any Award but prior to
any Change of Control, the Employee has engaged or is engaging in any activity which, in the sole judgment of the Authorized Party, is or may be detrimental to the Company or a subsidiary, the Authorized Party may cancel all or part of the ERSUs
(including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) held in escrow pursuant to the Award granted to that Employee. Upon any Change of Control, the Authorized Party may cancel all or part of the ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from
accrued dividend equivalents) held in escrow pursuant to the Award granted to that Employee only upon a determination by the Authorized Party that the Employee has given the Company Cause for such cancellation.  
      - 5 -  

If the Authorized Party, in its or his sole discretion, determines that the lapsing of
restrictions on ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents) held in escrow pursuant to any Award has the possibility of violating any law, regulation, or decree pertaining to the Company, any of its subsidiaries, or the
Employee, the Authorized Party may freeze or suspend the Employee s right to settlement or payout of the Award until such time as the lapse of restrictions would no longer, in the sole discretion of the Authorized Party, have the possibility of
violating such law, regulation, or decree.    Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Award is subject to forfeiture or
recoupment, in whole or in part, under applicable law, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act.  
  RECAPITALIZATION : Upon any change in the outstanding stock of the Company by reason of any stock dividend, stock
split, reverse stock split, recapitalization, reclassification, or other similar change, the Committee shall make corresponding adjustments to the ERSUs (including any ERSUs arising from accrued dividend equivalents).  
      - 6 -  

DEFINITIONS :  
  Capitalized terms not defined below shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan under which the Award is granted.   
        Administrator            means the CEO, who is authorized, with regard to outstanding Awards, to
administer the Program and take action under this the Program. The CEO may delegate such of his administrative duties and responsibilities as he shall deem desirable.       
   Authorized Party      means the person who is authorized to approve an Award, exercise discretion, or take action under the
Administrative Procedure for the Executive Restricted Stock Unit Program and pursuant to the Program. With regard to Senior Officers, the Committee is the Authorized Party. With regard to other Employees, the Chief Executive Officer, acting as the
Special Equity Award Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, is the Authorized Party, although the Committee may act concurrently as the Authorized Party. The Authorized Party may delegate duties and responsibilities regarding the
operation of the Program, other than the authority to grant an Award.       Award    means any Executive Restricted Stock Units granted
to an Employee pursuant to such applicable terms, conditions, and limitations as the Authorized Party may establish in order to fulfill the objectives of the Program.  
    Cause    means  Cause      as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of
ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan  .         Change of Control    has the meaning
set forth in Attachment A to these Terms and Conditions.       Chief Executive Officer      or 
    CEO      means the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.       Committee    means the Human Resources
and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, or any successor committee to it.       Company    means
ConocoPhillips, a Delaware corporation.       Disability      means a disability for which the employee in question has been
determined to be entitled to either (i) benefits under the applicable plan of long-term disability of the Company or its subsidiaries or (ii) disability benefits under the Social Security Act. In the absence of any such determination, the
Authorized Party may make a determination that the employee has a Disability.       Fair Market Value    means, as of a particular date,
the mean between the highest and lowest sales price per share of such Stock on the consolidated transaction reporting system for the principal national securities exchange on which shares of Stock are listed on that date, or, if there shall have
been no such sale so reported on that date, on the last preceding date on which such a sale was so reported, or, at the discretion of the Committee, the price prevailing on the exchange at a designated time.  
    Good Reason      means  Good Reason  as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of
ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan.       Grant Price    means the Fair Market Value for one
share of Stock as of the date of the grant of an Award. Grant price is not adjusted for any restrictions applicable to the Award.  
      - 7 -  

Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of ConocoPhillips    means the plan of that
name (or a successor plan to the plan of that name) in effect on an applicable Change of Control. If no plan of that name (or successor plan to the plan of that name) is in effect on an applicable Change of Control, it shall mean instead the plan of
that name in effect on the date of the Award.       Layoff    means an applicable Termination of Employment due to layoff under the
ConocoPhillips Severance Pay Plan, the ConocoPhillips Executive Severance Plan, or the ConocoPhillips Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan, or layoff or redundancy under any similar layoff or redundancy plan which the Company or its
subsidiaries may adopt from time to time. If all or any portion of the benefits under the redundancy or layoff plan are contingent on the employee s signing a general release of liability, such Termination shall not be considered as a
 Layoff  for purposes of this Award unless the employee executes and does not revoke a general release of liability, acceptable to the Company, under the terms of such layoff or redundancy plan. In order to be considered a layoff for
purposes of this Award, the Termination of Employment must also be considered a Separation from Service.       Participating Company   
includes ConocoPhillips and its 100% owned subsidiaries, including both those directly owned and those owned through subsidiaries, whose participation has been approved by the Authorized Party.  
    Executive Restricted Stock Unit      or    ERSU      means the type of restricted stock unit issued under
the Executive Restricted Stock Unit Program (as determined by the Authorized Party) that is subject to forfeiture provisions or that has certain restrictions attached to the ownership thereof.  
    Restricted Stock Unit      means a unit equal to one share of Stock (as determined by the Authorized Party) that is subject to
forfeiture provisions or that has certain restrictions attached to the ownership thereof.       Retirement      means Termination
at age 55 or older with a minimum of 5 years of service with a Participating Company; provided, however, that with regard to an Employee not on the United States payroll, the CEO may approve the use of a different definition. Service is defined by
the policies of the Participating Company.       Senior Officer    means the Chairman of the Board, the CEO, all other executive
officers of the Company (determined in accordance with the Company s custom and practice pursuant to section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), all other employees of the Company who report directly to the CEO and whose
salary grade is 23 or higher, and all other employees of the Company whose salary grade is 26 or higher.       Severance    means
 Severance  as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan, and shall also incorporate the meaning of the terms  Cause 
and  Good Reason  contained in the definition of  Severance  in such plan.       Stock      means shares of
common stock of the Company, par value $.01. Stock may also be referred to as  Common Stock.        Termination,   
     Termination of Employment,    and      Separation from Service    each mean  separation from service  as that term is used in section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.  
      - 8 -  

Attachment  A    
   Change of Control       The
following definitions apply to the Change of Control provision of the Plan.      Affiliate  shall have the meaning ascribed to
such term in  Rule 12b-2  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect at the time of determination.  
  Associate  shall mean, with reference to any Person, (a) any corporation, firm, partnership, association, unincorporated
organization or other entity (other than the Company or a subsidiary of the Company) of which such Person is an officer or general partner (or officer or general partner of a general partner) or is, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of
10% or more of any class of equity securities, (b) any trust or other estate in which such Person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such Person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity and (c) any relative or
spouse of such Person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same home as such Person.     Beneficial Owner  shall mean,
with reference to any securities, any Person if:    (a) such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates and Associates,
directly or indirectly, is the  beneficial owner  of (as determined pursuant to  Rule 13d-3  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect at the time of determination)
such securities or otherwise has the right to vote or dispose of such securities;    (b) such Person or any of such
Person s Affiliates and Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right or obligation to acquire such securities (whether such right or obligation is exercisable or effective immediately or only after the passage of time or the occurrence of
an event) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, other rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be
deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to  beneficially own,  (i) securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are
accepted for purchase or exchange or (ii) securities issuable upon exercise of Exempt Rights; or    (c) such Person or
any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates (i) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) with any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) that beneficially owns such securities for the
purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except as set forth in the proviso to subsection (a) of this definition) or disposing of such securities or (ii) is a member of a group (as that term is used in
 Rule 13d-5(b)  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act) that includes any other Person that beneficially owns such securities;  
 provided, however, that nothing in this definition shall cause a Person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities to be the Beneficial Owner of, or
to  beneficially own,  any securities acquired through such Person s participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of 40 days after the date of such acquisition. For purposes hereof,
 voting  a security shall include voting, granting a proxy, consenting or making a request or demand relating to corporate action (including, without limitation, a demand for a shareholder list, to call a shareholder meeting or to inspect
corporate books and records) or otherwise giving an authorization (within the meaning of section 14(a) of the Exchange Act) in respect of such security.  
      - 9 -  

The terms  beneficially own  and  beneficially owning  shall have meanings
that are correlative to this definition of the term  Beneficial Owner.      Board  shall have the meaning set forth in
the Plan.     Change of Control  shall mean any of the following occurring on or after January 1, 2018:  
 (a) any Person (other than an Exempt Person) shall become the Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock
then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding; provided, however, that no Change of Control shall be deemed to occur for purposes of this subsection (a) if such Person shall
become a Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding solely as a result of (i) any acquisition directly from the
Company or (ii) any acquisition by a Person pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of this definition;  
 (b) individuals who, as of January 1, 2018, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason
to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to January 1, 2018 whose election, or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at
least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; provided, further, that there shall be excluded, for this purpose, any such individual whose
initial assumption of office occurs as a result of any actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other
than the Board;    (c) the Company shall consummate a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange, consolidation, or
similar transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the acquisition of assets or securities of another entity by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries (a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) 50% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation, or common equity securities of an entity other than a
corporation, resulting from such Business Combination and the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of such corporation or other entity are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the Persons
who were the Beneficial Owners of the outstanding Common Stock immediately prior to such Business Combination in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the outstanding Common Stock,
(ii) no Person (excluding any Exempt Person or any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such Business Combination, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power
of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation, or common equity securities of an entity other than a corporation,
resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of such  
      - 10 -  

corporation or other entity, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation, or the body which is most analogous to the board of directors of a
corporation if not a corporation, resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the initial agreement or initial action by the Board providing for such Business Combination; or  
 (d) the shareholders of the Company shall approve a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company unless such liquidation
or dissolution is approved as part of a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of this definition.  
  Common Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Company  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  
  Exempt Person  shall mean any of the Company, any entity controlled by the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust)
sponsored or maintained by the Company or any entity controlled by the Company, and any Person organized, appointed, or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such employee benefit plan.  
  Exempt Rights  shall mean any rights to purchase shares of Common Stock or other Voting Stock of the Company if at the time of the
issuance thereof such rights are not separable from such Common Stock or other Voting Stock ( i.e. , are not transferable otherwise than in connection with a transfer of the underlying Common Stock or other Voting Stock), except upon the
occurrence of a contingency, whether such rights exist as of January 1, 2018 or are thereafter issued by the Company as a dividend on shares of Common Stock or other Voting Securities or otherwise.  
  Person  shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust, unincorporated organization, or other
entity.     Voting Stock  shall mean, (1) with respect to a corporation, all securities of such corporation of any class or
series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, directors of such corporation (excluding any class or series that would be entitled so to vote by reason of the occurrence of any contingency, so long as such
contingency has not occurred) and (ii) with respect to an entity which is not a corporation, all securities of any class or series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, members of the body which is
most analogous to the board of directors of a corporation.  
      - 11 -  

</EX-10.27.13>

<EX-10.27.14>
 6
 d534096dex102714.htm
 EX-10.27.14

EX-10.27.14 

Exhibit 10.27.14      

RESTRICTED STOCK PROGRAM   
  FEBRUARY 13, 2018   
  KEY EMPLOYEE AWARD      TERMS
AND CONDITIONS     This Key Employee Award Terms and Conditions describes terms and conditions of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Awards, as
part of the ConocoPhillips Restricted Stock Program (Program), granted under the 2014 Omnibus Stock and Performance Incentive Plan of ConocoPhillips (referred to as the Plan) by ConocoPhillips (Company) to certain eligible Employees (Employees).
These Terms and Conditions, together with the Award Summary given to each Employee receiving an Award, form the Award Agreement (the Agreement) relating to the Awards described. The Agreement covers both Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units,
and the term Employee covers recipients of Awards made either in Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.      

1. 
   Type and Size of Grant  . Subject to the Plan and this Agreement, the Company grants to certain eligible Employees Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units. Individual awards will be as set forth in the
Award Summary given to each Employee to whom an Award is granted. The Award Summary for each Employee is made a part of this Agreement with regard to such Employee.    

2. 
   Grant Date, Price, and Plan  . The Grant Date is   February         13, 2018  . The Grant Price is set forth on the Award Summary given to each Employee to whom an Award is
granted. Awards are made under the 2014 Omnibus Stock and Performance Incentive Plan.        

3. 
   Restrictions, Forfeiture, and Lapse of Restrictions  . The Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units subject hereto may be canceled or forfeited as set forth herein. Except as otherwise noted in this
Agreement, the following summary table describes restrictions and terms, forfeiture, and lapse of restrictions, subject to the more detailed provisions set forth below:    
  Summary Table       

Summary of Termination Rules   
 
  Status  

Termination  
  Date   
    
  Forfeiture or Lapsing of Restrictions   
 
 Retirement (age 55 and 5 years of service) 
    
 Prior to 6 months from Grant Date 
    
 Canceled upon Termination  

6 months from Grant Date   after 
    
 Restrictions lapse upon Termination  
 
 Layoff 
    
 Prior to 6 months from Grant Date 
    
 Canceled upon Termination  

6 months to 1 year from Grant Date 
    
 Award is prorated and restrictions on remaining stock/units lapse upon Termination  

1 year from Grant Date   after 
    
 Restrictions lapse upon Termination  
 
 Disability 
    
 Any date after Grant Date 
    
 Restrictions lapse upon Termination  
 
 Death 
    
 Any date after Grant Date 
    
 Restrictions lapse upon Termination  
 
 Divestitures, outsourcing, and moves to joint ventures 
    
 Any date after Grant Date 
    
 Canceled upon Termination, unless otherwise approved by Authorized Party  
 
 All other Terminations 

Canceled upon Termination  

Page 1 of 11  

(a)   
  Restrictions and Terms.     

(i) 
 The Award shall be held in escrow by the Company until the lapsing of restrictions placed upon the Award. The Employee shall not have the right to sell, transfer, assign, or otherwise dispose of Restricted Stock or
Restricted Stock Units granted in an Award until the escrow is terminated. Except as set forth below, the Award shall be forfeited and the related Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units canceled upon the Employee s Termination of Employment
with the Company prior to the lapsing of restrictions. Restrictions shall lapse on the Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted in an Award on the third anniversary of the Grant Date. Upon the lapsing of restrictions, the number of shares
of unrestricted Stock equal to the number of shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units for which the restrictions have so lapsed shall be registered in the Employee s name, and the related shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted
Stock Units shall be canceled; provided, however, that the Authorized Party may choose instead to issue any Restricted Stock with the restrictions removed, rather than cancel such Restricted Stock and issue unrestricted Stock; and further provided,
however, that in places where it is determined by the Authorized Party that payout in the form of unrestricted Stock is prohibited by law, regulation, or decree, or where the cost of legal compliance to issue the unrestricted Stock would be
unreasonably expensive, the Fair Market Value of such unrestricted Stock shall be paid in cash instead of settlement of the Award in unrestricted Stock. Cash payouts are only permitted where such legal restrictions exist. Settlement of the Award in
unrestricted Stock or cash payout, if any, shall be made upon the lapsing of restrictions on the Award, but, in any event, shall be made no later than March 15 of the year following the year in which such restrictions lapse.    

(ii) 
 Restricted Stock Units do not have any voting rights or other rights generally associated with Stock, and are merely an obligation of the Company to make settlement in accordance with the terms and conditions applicable
to such Restricted Stock Units. Restricted Stock Units granted to Employees who are resident in the United States or the United Kingdom on the Grant Date and on the United States or United Kingdom payroll on the Grant Date shall accrue a dividend
equivalent at such times as an ordinary quarterly cash dividend is paid on the Stock of the Company, which dividend equivalent shall be paid in cash to the Employee to whom the Award was made. Restricted Stock Units granted to Employees other than
those described in the previous sentence shall not accrue a dividend equivalent. Payment of a dividend equivalent, if any, shall be made on the first day of the third month of each calendar quarter (or, if the New York Stock Exchange is not open on
such day, the first day that the New York Stock Exchange is open thereafter), and, in any event, shall be made no later than March 15 of the year following the year in which the ordinary quarterly cash dividend is paid.    

(iii) 
 When an Award is made of Restricted Stock, such Restricted Stock will be held in escrow for the Employee to whom the Award is made. The Employee to whom the Award is made will have all rights of ownership to such stock
including, but not limited to, voting rights and the right to receive dividends, except that the Employee to whom the Award is made shall not have the right to sell, transfer, assign, or otherwise dispose of such shares until the escrow is
terminated. The escrow shall end upon, and to the extent of, the lapsing of restrictions.    
    
 Page 2 of 11  

(b) 
  Termination of Employment .        

(i) 
  General Rule for Termination . If, prior to the date on which restrictions lapse in accordance with the schedule set forth in the Award, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be
terminated for any reason except death, Disability, Retirement, or Layoff, any Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units remaining in escrow pursuant to such Award shall be canceled and all rights thereunder shall cease; provided, however, that the
Authorized Party may, in its or his sole discretion, determine that all or any portion of an Award shall not be canceled due to Termination of Employment.        

(ii) 
  Layoff Within Six Months . If, prior to a date six months from the date an Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Layoff, such Award shall be
canceled and all rights thereunder shall cease.        

(iii) 
  Layoff Within One Year . If, on or after a date six months from the date an Award is granted but prior to a date one year from the date an Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating
Company shall be terminated by reason of Layoff, the Employee shall retain a prorated number of the Award shares or units granted. The number of Award shares or units retained will be computed by multiplying the original number of Award shares or
units granted by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full months of employment from the first day of the month in which the Award was granted until the date the employee is terminated and the denominator of which is 12. Such
calculation shall be rounded down to the nearest whole share. In such case, the restrictions on the prorated Award shall lapse on the date of Termination of the Employee from the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries, and settlement shall be
made in accordance with the settlement provisions above.        

(iv) 
  Layoff After One Year . If, on or after a date one year from the date an Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Layoff, the Employee shall
retain all rights provided by the Award at the time of such Termination of Employment. In such case, the restrictions on the Award shall lapse on the date of Termination of the Employee from the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries, and
settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions above.        

(v) 
  Retirement Within Six Months . If, prior to a date six months from the date an Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Retirement, such Award
shall be canceled and all rights thereunder shall cease.        

(vi) 
  Retirement After Six Months . If, on or after a date six months after the Grant Date of an Award, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Retirement, the
Employee shall retain all rights provided by the Award at the time of such Termination of Employment. In such case, the restrictions on the Award shall lapse on the date of Termination of the Employee from the employ of the Company and its
subsidiaries, and settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions above.        

(vii) 
  Disability . If, after the date the Award is granted, an Employee shall terminate employment following Disability of the Employee, the Employee shall retain all rights provided by the Award at the time of such
Termination of Employment. In such case, the restrictions on the Award shall lapse on the date of Termination of Employment from the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries, and settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement
provisions above.        

(viii) 
    Death . If, after the date an Award is granted, an Employee shall die while in the employ of a
Participating Company ,  or after Termination of Employment by reason of Retirement, Disability, or Layoff (and prior to the cancellation of the Award), the restrictions on the Award shall lapse on the later of the date of death and the date of
Termination of the Employee from the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries, and settlement shall be     
    
 Page 3 of 11  

made in accordance with the settlement provisions above. No transfer of an Award, or of the unrestricted Stock or other proceeds of an Award, as a result of the death of the Employee shall be
effective to bind the Company unless the Authorized Party shall have been furnished with such evidence as the Authorized Party may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer and the acceptance by the transferee or transferees of the
terms and conditions of such Award.        

(ix) 
  Transfers and Leaves . Transfer of employment between Participating Companies shall not constitute Termination of Employment for the purpose of any Award granted under the Program. Whether any leave of absence
shall constitute Termination of Employment for the purposes of any Award granted under the Program shall be determined by the Authorized Party, in each case in accordance with applicable law and by application of the policies and procedures adopted
by the Company in relation to such leave of absence.        

(x) 
  Divestiture, Outsourcing, or Move to Joint Venture . If, after the date the Award is granted, an Employee ceases to be employed by Participating Company as a result of (a) the outsourcing of a function,
(b) the sale or transfer of all or a portion of the equity interest of such Participating Company (removing it from the controlled group of companies of which the Company is a part), (c) the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of
such Participating Company to another employer outside of the controlled group of corporations (whether the Employee is offered employment or accepts employment with the other employer), (d) the Termination of the Employee by a Participating Company
followed by employment within a reasonable time with a company or other entity in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least a 50% interest, or (e) any other sale of assets determined by the Authorized Party to be considered a
divestiture under this Program, the Authorized Party may, in its or his sole discretion, determine that all or a portion of any such Award shall not be canceled. In such cases, the restrictions on the Award shall lapse on the date of Termination of
the Employee from the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries, and settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions above.        

(xi) 
  Change of Control . Upon a Change of Control, the following shall apply to any Award:        

(1) 
 Each Employee shall immediately become fully vested in such Award that is not assumed, or substituted for, by an acquirer in connection with the Change of Control, and such Award shall not thereafter be forfeitable for
any reason, except as set forth in Section 3(c).        

(2) 
 With regard to any other Award, each Employee shall become fully vested in such Award upon incurring a Severance following such Change of Control, and such Award shall not thereafter be forfeitable for any reason,
except as set forth in Section 3(c).        

(3) 
 In the event of vesting of an Award pursuant to either Section 3(x)(1) or Section 3(x)(2), all restrictions and other limitations applicable to any Restricted Stock granted in any Award shall lapse. With
regard to such Restricted Stock, it shall become free of all restrictions and become transferable. With regard to such Restricted Stock Units, all restrictions and other limitations applicable to the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse and the
Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in unrestricted Stock or cash at the same times and upon the same events as it would otherwise have been made in accordance with the settlement provisions above.    

(xii) 
  Specified Employees . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that this Award or the dividend equivalents associated with this Award are includible in income pursuant to section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code, settlement of the Award or any other distribution hereunder due to Separation from Service with the Company and its subsidiaries shall not be made to a  specified employee  (as that term is defined in section
409A(a)(2)(B)(i)) prior to six months after the specified employee s Separation from Service from the Company and its subsidiaries (or, if earlier, the date of death of the specified employee).    
    
 Page 4 of 11  

(c)   
  Detrimental Activities and Suspension of Award.         

(i) 
 If the Authorized Party determines that, subsequent to the grant of any Award but prior to any Change of Control, the Employee has engaged or is engaging in any activity which, in the sole judgment of the Authorized
Party, is or may be detrimental to the Company or a subsidiary, the Authorized Party may cancel all or part of the Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units held in escrow pursuant to the Award or Awards granted to that Employee. Upon any Change of
Control, the Authorized Party may cancel all or part of the Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units held in escrow pursuant to the Award granted to the Employee only upon a determination by the Authorized Party that the Employee has given the
Company Cause for such cancellation.        

(ii) 
 If the Authorized Party, in its or his sole discretion, determines that the lapsing of restrictions on Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units held in escrow pursuant to any Award has the possibility of violating any
law, regulation, or decree pertaining to the Company, any of its subsidiaries, or the Employee, the Authorized Party may freeze or suspend the Employee s right to settlement or payout of the Award until such time as the lapse of restrictions
would no longer, in the sole discretion of the Authorized Party, have the possibility of violating such law, regulation, or decree.        

(iii) 
 Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Award is subject to forfeiture or recoupment, in whole or in part, under applicable law, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act.    

4. 
   No Assignment of Award Except Upon Death  . Rights under the Plan and this Agreement cannot be assigned or transferred other than as a consequence of the death of the Employee.    

5. 
   Tax Withholding  . In all cases the Employee will be responsible to pay all required withholding taxes applicable to an Award. Should a withholding tax obligation arise with regard to an Award or the lapsing
of restrictions on Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted in an Award, the Company may satisfy the withholding tax obligation by withholding shares of Stock. The value of the shares of Stock withheld for this purpose shall be an amount
consistent with applicable laws and regulations. In cases where a withholding tax obligation arises prior to the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted in an Award, the Company may instead satisfy the withholding
tax obligation by payment of cash by the Employee. Payment of cash shall not be allowed unless the Employee has elected to make such payment by payroll withholding. If any interest is required under local laws, regulations, or decrees to be charged
on or imputed against the payroll withholding, the Employee shall be responsible for paying such interest, which shall be withheld from pay. In cases where payment by payroll withholding cannot be made due to circumstances arising after the election
or where the Authorized Party has determined that such withholding would violate any applicable law, regulation, or decree, shares of Stock shall be withheld instead. When necessary, lapsing of restrictions may be accelerated by the Authorized Party
to the extent necessary to provide shares of Stock to satisfy any withholding tax obligation. This withholding tax obligation includes, but is not limited to, federal, state, and local taxes, including applicable
 non-U.S.  taxes such as U.K. PAYE. If Australian tax law applies to the Employee, then an Award is a scheme to which Subdivision  83A-C  of the Income Tax Assessment Act
1997 of Australia applies (subject to the conditions in that Act).        

6. 
   Shareholder Rights for Restricted Stock Units  . The Employee shall not have the rights of a shareholder until the Restricted Stock Unit has been canceled and ownership of shares of Stock has been
transferred to the Employee. As described above, the Company may pay dividend equivalents with regard to Restricted Stock Units in certain circumstances.    
    
 Page 5 of 11  

7. 
   Certain Adjustments  . In the event certain corporate transactions, recapitalizations, or stock splits occur while Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units are outstanding, the Grant Price and the number
of shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be correspondingly adjusted.        

8. 
   Relationship to the Plan  . In addition to the terms and conditions described in this Agreement, Awards are subject to all other applicable provisions of the Plan. The decisions of the Committee with respect
to questions arising as to the interpretation of the Plan or this Agreement or as to findings of fact shall be final, conclusive, and binding.        

9. 
   No Employment Guarantee  . No provision of this Agreement shall confer any right upon the Employee to continued employment with any Participating Company.    

10. 
   Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by, construed, and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.    

11. 
   Amendment  . Without the consent of the Employee, this Agreement may be amended or supplemented (i) to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or
inconsistent with any other provision herein, or (ii) to add to the covenants and agreements of the Company for the benefit of an Employee or to add to the rights of an Employee or to surrender any right or power reserved to or conferred upon
the Company in this Agreement, provided, in each case, that such changes or corrections shall not adversely affect the rights of the Employee with respect to the grant of an Award evidenced hereby without the Employee s consent, or
(iii) to make such other changes as the Company, upon advice of counsel, determines are necessary or advisable because of the adoption or promulgation of, or change in or of the interpretation of, any law or governmental rule or regulation,
including any applicable federal or state securities or tax laws.    
    
 Page 6 of 11  

DEFINITIONS   
  Capitalized terms not defined below shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan.   
    Authorized Party      means the person who is authorized to approve an Award, exercise discretion, or take action under the
Administrative Procedure for the Restricted Stock Program and pursuant to the Program. With regard to Senior Officers, the Committee is the Authorized Party. With regard to other Employees, the Chief Executive Officer, acting as the Special Equity
Award Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, is the Authorized Party, although the Committee may act concurrently as the Authorized Party. The Authorized Party may delegate duties and responsibilities regarding the operation of the
Program, other than the authority to grant an Award.       Award    means any Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted to an
Employee pursuant to such applicable terms, conditions, and limitations as the Authorized Party may establish in order to fulfill the objectives of the Program.  
    Cause    means  Cause      as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of
ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan  .         Change of Control    has the meaning
set forth in Attachment A to these Terms and Conditions.       Chief Executive Officer    or    CEO    means the
Chief Executive Officer of the Company.       Committee    means the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors of the Company, or any successor committee to it.       Company      means ConocoPhillips, a Delaware corporation.  
    Disability    means a disability for which the employee in question has been determined to be entitled to either (i) benefits
under the applicable plan of long-term disability of the Company or its subsidiaries or (ii) disability benefits under the Social Security Act.     In the absence of any such determination, the Authorized Party may make a
determination that the employee has a Disability.       Fair Market Value    means, as of a particular date, the mean between the
highest and lowest sales price per share of such Stock on the consolidated transaction reporting system for the principal national securities exchange on which shares of Stock are listed on that date, or, if there shall have been no such sale so
reported on that date, on the last preceding date on which such a sale was so reported, or, at the discretion of the Committee, the price prevailing on the exchange at a designated time.  
    Good Reason    means  Good Reason  as that term is defined in the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of
ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan.       Grant Price    means the Fair Market Value for one
share of Stock as of the date of the grant of an Award.     Grant price is not adjusted for any restrictions applicable to the Award.  
    Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of ConocoPhillips    means the plan of that name (or a successor plan to the plan of that
name) in effect on an applicable Change of Control. If no plan of that name (or successor plan to the plan of that name) is in effect on an applicable Change of Control, it shall mean instead the plan of that name in effect on the date of the Award.
      Layoff      means an applicable Termination of Employment due to layoff under the ConocoPhillips Severance Pay Plan, the
ConocoPhillips Executive Severance Plan, or the ConocoPhillips Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan, or layoff or redundancy under any similar layoff or redundancy plan which the Company or its subsidiaries may adopt from time to time. If
all or any portion of the benefits under the redundancy or layoff plan are contingent on the employee s signing a general release of liability,  
    
 Page 7 of 11  

such Termination shall not be considered as a  Layoff  for purposes of this Award unless the employee executes and does not revoke a general release of liability, acceptable to the
Company, under the terms of such layoff or redundancy plan. In order to be considered a layoff for purposes of this Award, the Termination of Employment must also be considered a Separation from Service.  
    Participating Company    includes ConocoPhillips and its 100% owned subsidiaries, including both those directly owned and those owned
through subsidiaries, whose participation has been approved by the Authorized Party.       Restricted Stock    means shares of Stock
that have certain restrictions attached to the ownership thereof.       Restricted Stock Unit    means a unit equal to one share of
Stock (as determined by the Authorized Party) that is subject to forfeiture provisions or that has certain restrictions attached to the ownership thereof.  
    Retirement      means Termination at age 55 or older with a minimum of 5 years of service with a Participating Company; provided,
however, that with regard to an Employee not on the United States payroll, the CEO may approve the use of a different definition.     Service is defined by the policies of the Participating Company.  
    Senior Officer    means the Chairman of the Board, the CEO, all other executive officers of the Company (determined in accordance with
the Company s custom and practice pursuant to section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), all other employees of the Company who report directly to the CEO and whose salary grade is 23 or higher, and all other employees
of the Company whose salary grade is 26 or higher.       Separation from Service    means  separation from service  as that
term is used in section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.       Severance    means  Severance  as that term is defined in the
Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan of ConocoPhillips applied as if an Employee were a participant under such plan, and shall also incorporate the meaning of the terms  Cause  and  Good Reason  contained in the
definition of  Severance  in such plan.       Stock    means shares of common stock of the Company, par value $.01. Stock may
also be referred to as  Common Stock.        Termination    or    Termination of Employment    means
cessation of employment with the Participating Companies, determined in accordance with the policies and practices of the Participating Company for whom the Employee was last performing services.  
    
 Page 8 of 11  

Attachment  A   
  Change of Control      The following
definitions apply to the Change of Control provision in Section 10 of the Plan.      Affiliate  shall have the meaning
ascribed to such term in  Rule 12b-2  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect at the time of determination.  
  Associate  shall mean, with reference to any Person, (a) any corporation, firm, partnership, association, unincorporated
organization or other entity (other than the Company or a subsidiary of the Company) of which such Person is an officer or general partner (or officer or general partner of a general partner) or is, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of
10% or more of any class of equity securities, (b) any trust or other estate in which such Person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such Person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity and (c) any relative or
spouse of such Person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same home as such Person.     Beneficial Owner  shall mean,
with reference to any securities, any Person if:    (a) such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates and Associates,
directly or indirectly, is the  beneficial owner  of (as determined pursuant to  Rule 13d-3  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect at the time of determination)
such securities or otherwise has the right to vote or dispose of such securities;    (b) such Person or any of such
Person s Affiliates and Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right or obligation to acquire such securities (whether such right or obligation is exercisable or effective immediately or only after the passage of time or the occurrence of
an event) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, other rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be
deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to  beneficially own,  (i) securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are
accepted for purchase or exchange or (ii) securities issuable upon exercise of Exempt Rights; or    (c) such Person or
any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates (i) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) with any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) that beneficially owns such securities for the
purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except as set forth in the proviso to subsection (a) of this definition) or disposing of such securities or (ii) is a member of a group (as that term is used in
 Rule 13d-5(b)  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act) that includes any other Person that beneficially owns such securities;  
 provided, however, that nothing in this definition shall cause a Person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities to be the Beneficial Owner of, or
to  beneficially own,  any securities acquired through such Person s participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of 40 days after the date of such acquisition. For purposes hereof,
 voting  a security shall include voting, granting a proxy, consenting or making a request or demand  
    
 Page 9 of 11  

relating to corporate action (including, without limitation, a demand for a shareholder list, to call a shareholder meeting or to inspect corporate books and records) or otherwise giving an
authorization (within the meaning of section 14(a) of the Exchange Act) in respect of such security.    The terms  beneficially
own  and  beneficially owning  shall have meanings that are correlative to this definition of the term  Beneficial Owner.   
  Board  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Change of Control  shall mean any of the following occurring on or after January 1, 2018:  
 (a) any Person (other than an Exempt Person) shall become the Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock
then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding; provided, however, that no Change of Control shall be deemed to occur for purposes of this subsection (a) if such Person shall
become a Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding solely as a result of (i) any acquisition directly from the
Company or (ii) any acquisition by a Person pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of this definition;  
 (b) individuals who, as of January 1, 2018, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason
to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to January 1, 2018 whose election, or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders, was approved by a vote
of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; provided, further, that there shall be excluded, for this purpose, any such individual
whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of any actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person
other than the Board;    (c) the Company shall consummate a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange, consolidation,
or similar transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the acquisition of assets or securities of another entity by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries (a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) 50% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation, or common equity securities of an entity other than a
corporation, resulting from such Business Combination and the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of such corporation or other entity are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the Persons
who were the Beneficial Owners of the outstanding Common Stock immediately prior to such Business Combination in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the outstanding Common Stock,
(ii) no Person (excluding any Exempt Person or any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such Business Combination, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power
of the Voting Stock of the  
    
 Page 10 of 11  

Company then outstanding) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation, or common equity securities of an entity other
than a corporation, resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of such corporation or other entity, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the
corporation, or the body which is most analogous to the board of directors of a corporation if not a corporation, resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the initial agreement or initial action by
the Board providing for such Business Combination; or    (d) the shareholders of the Company shall approve a complete
liquidation or dissolution of the Company unless such liquidation or dissolution is approved as part of a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of this definition.  
  Common Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Company  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  
  Exempt Person  shall mean any of the Company, any entity controlled by the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust)
sponsored or maintained by the Company or any entity controlled by the Company, and any Person organized, appointed, or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such employee benefit plan.  
  Exempt Rights  shall mean any rights to purchase shares of Common Stock or other Voting Stock of the Company if at the time of the
issuance thereof such rights are not separable from such Common Stock or other Voting Stock ( i.e. , are not transferable otherwise than in connection with a transfer of the underlying Common Stock or other Voting Stock), except upon the
occurrence of a contingency, whether such rights exist as of January 1, 2018 or are thereafter issued by the Company as a dividend on shares of Common Stock or other Voting Securities or otherwise.  
  Person  shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust, unincorporated organization, or other
entity.     Voting Stock  shall mean, (1) with respect to a corporation, all securities of such corporation of any class or
series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, directors of such corporation (excluding any class or series that would be entitled so to vote by reason of the occurrence of any contingency, so long as such
contingency has not occurred) and (ii) with respect to an entity which is not a corporation, all securities of any class or series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, members of the body which is
most analogous to the board of directors of a corporation.  
    
 Page 11 of 11  

</EX-10.27.14>

<EX-10.27.15>
 7
 d534096dex102715.htm
 EX-10.27.15

EX-10.27.15 

Exhibit 10.27.15    

[Grant Date]   
  RETENTION AWARD      TERMS
AND CONDITIONS     These Retention Award Terms and Conditions describe terms and conditions of Restricted Stock Unit Awards granted under
the 2014 Omnibus Stock and Performance Incentive Plan of ConocoPhillips (referred to as the Plan) by ConocoPhillips (the Company) to
[                    ] (Employee). These Terms and Conditions, together with the Award Summary given to Employee, form the Award Agreement (the
Agreement) relating to the Award described.      

1. 
   Type and Size of Grant  . Subject to the Plan and this Agreement, the Company grants to Employee Restricted Stock Units. The number of units will be as set forth in the Award Summary given to Employee. The
Award Summary for Employee is made a part of this Agreement.        

2. 
   Grant Date, Price, and Plan  . The Grant Date is [                    ] and the Grant Price is
[                    ]. Awards are made under the 2014 Omnibus Stock and Performance Incentive Plan.    

3. 
   Restrictions, Forfeiture, and Lapse of Restrictions  . The Restricted Stock Units subject hereto may be canceled or forfeited as set forth herein. Except as otherwise noted in this Agreement, the following
summary table describes restrictions and terms, forfeiture, and lapse of restrictions, subject to the more detailed provisions set forth below:        

Summary  
  Table          

Summary of Termination Rules   
 
  Status  

Termination  
  Date   
    
  Forfeiture or Lapsing of Restrictions   
 
 Layoff 
    
 Prior to 6 months from grant date 
    
 Canceled upon termination  

6 months from grant date   after 
    
 Restrictions lapse on Termination date  
 
 Disability 
    
 Any date after grant date 
    
 Restrictions lapse on Termination date  
 
 Death 
    
 Any date after grant date 
    
 Restrictions lapse on Termination date  
 
 Divestitures, outsourcing, and moves to joint ventures 
    
 Any date after grant date 
    
 Canceled upon Termination, unless approval otherwise  
 
 All other Terminations, including Retirement 

Canceled upon Termination  

(a) 
  Restrictions and Terms .    

(i) 
   The Award shall be held in escrow by the Company until the lapsing of restrictions placed upon the Award. The
Employee shall not have the right to sell, transfer, assign, or otherwise dispose of Restricted Stock Units granted in the Award until the escrow is     
      Page 1 of 10  

terminated. Except as set forth below, the Award shall be forfeited and the related Restricted Stock Units cancelled upon the Employee s Termination of Employment with the Company prior to
the lapsing of restrictions. Restrictions shall lapse on the Restricted Stock Units granted in the Award on [                    ]. Upon the lapsing
of restrictions, the number of shares of unrestricted Stock equal to the number of shares of Restricted Stock Units for which the restrictions have so lapsed shall be registered in the Employee s name, and the related shares of Restricted Stock
Units shall be canceled; provided, however, that in places where it is determined by the Authorized Party that payout in the form of unrestricted Stock is prohibited by law, regulation, or decree, or where the cost of legal compliance to issue the
unrestricted Stock would be unreasonably expensive, the Fair Market Value of such unrestricted Stock shall be paid in cash instead of settlement of the Award in unrestricted Stock. Cash payouts are only permitted where such legal restrictions exist.
Settlement of the Award in unrestricted Stock or cash payout, if any, shall be made when the restrictions lapse, but in any event, shall be made no later than March 15 of the year following the year in which such restrictions lapse.

(ii) 
 Restricted Stock Units do not have any voting rights or other rights generally associated with Stock, and are merely an obligation of the Company to make settlement in accordance with the terms and conditions applicable
to such Restricted Stock Units. Restricted Stock Units shall accrue a dividend equivalent at such times as an ordinary quarterly cash dividend is paid on the Stock of the Company, which dividend equivalent shall be paid in cash to the Employee to
whom the Award was made. Payment of a dividend equivalent, if any, shall be made on the first day of the third month of each calendar quarter (or, if the New York Stock Exchange is not open on such day, the first day that the New York Stock Exchange
is open thereafter), but in any event, shall be made no later than March 15 of the year following the year in which the dividend related to the dividend equivalent is paid.    

(b) 
  Termination of Employment .        

(i) 
  General Rule for Termination . If, prior to the date on which restrictions lapse in accordance with the schedule set forth in the Award, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be
terminated for any reason except death, Disability, or Layoff, any Restricted Stock Units remaining in escrow pursuant to such Award shall be canceled and all rights thereunder shall cease; provided that the Authorized Party may, in its or his sole
discretion, determine that all or any portion of an Award shall not be canceled due to Termination of Employment.        

(ii) 
  Layoff Within Six Months . If, prior to a date six months from the date a Retention Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Layoff, such
Retention Award shall be canceled and all rights thereunder shall cease.        

(iii) 
  Layoff After Six Months . If, on or after a date six months from the date a Retention Award is granted, the Employee s employment with a Participating Company shall be terminated by reason of Layoff, the
Employee shall retain all rights provided by the Award at the time of such Termination of Employment. In such case, the restrictions on the Award shall lapse on the date of Termination of the Employee from the employ of the Company and its
subsidiaries, and settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions above.        

(iv) 
  Disability . If, after the date the Award is granted, the Employee shall terminate employment following Disability of the Employee, the Employee shall retain all rights provided by the Award at the time of such
Termination of Employment. In such case, the restrictions on the Award shall lapse on the date of Termination of Employment from the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries, and settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement
provisions above.    
      Page 2 of 10  

(v) 
  Death . If, after the date an Award is granted, the Employee shall die while in the employ of a Participating Company ,  or after Termination of Employment by reason of Disability, or Layoff (and prior to the
cancellation of the Award), the executor or administrator of the estate of the Employee or the person or persons to whom the Award shall have been validly transferred by the executor or the administrator pursuant to will or the laws of descent and
distribution shall have the right to settlement of the Award to the same extent the Employee would have, had the Employee not died. In such case, the restrictions on the Award shall lapse upon the determination of death by the Authorized Party, and
settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions above. No transfer of an Award, or of the unrestricted Stock or other proceeds of an Award, by the Employee by will or by the laws of descent and distribution shall be effective
to bind the Company unless the Authorized Party shall have been furnished with written notice thereof and a copy of the will and such other evidence as the Authorized Party may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer and the
acceptance by the transferee or transferees of the terms and conditions of such Award.        

(vi) 
  Transfers and Leaves . Transfer of employment between Participating Companies shall not constitute Termination of Employment for the purpose of any Award granted under the Program. Whether any leave of absence
shall constitute Termination of Employment for the purposes of any Award granted under the Program shall be determined by the Authorized Party, in each case in accordance with applicable law and by application of the policies and procedures adopted
by the Company in relation to such leave of absence.        

(vii) 
  Divestiture, Outsourcing, or Move to Joint Venture . If, after the date the Award is granted, the Employee ceases to be employed by Participating Company as a result of (a) the outsourcing of a function,
(b) the sale or transfer of all or a portion of the equity interest of such Participating Company (removing it from the controlled group of companies of which the Company is a part), (c) the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of
such Participating Company to another employer outside of the controlled group of corporations (whether the Employee is offered employment or accepts employment with the other employer), (d) the Termination of the Employee by a Participating Company
followed by employment within a reasonable time with a company or other entity in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least a 50% interest, prior to exercise of an Award, or (e) any other sale of assets determined by the
Authorized Party to be considered a divestiture under this program, the Authorized Party may, in its or his sole discretion, determine that all or a portion of any such Award shall not be canceled. In such cases, the restrictions on the Award shall
lapse on the date of Termination of the Employee from the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries, and settlement shall be made in accordance with the settlement provisions above.    

(viii) 
  Change of Control. Upon a Change of Control, the following shall apply to any Award:         

(1) 
 Each Employee shall immediately become fully vested in such Award that is not assumed, or substituted for, by an acquirer in connection with the Change of Control, and such Award shall not thereafter be forfeitable for
any reason, except as set forth in Section 3(c).        

(2) 
 With regard to any other Award, each Employee shall become fully vested in such Award upon incurring a Severance following such Change of Control, and such Award shall not thereafter be forfeitable for any reason,
except as set forth in Section 3(c).        

(3) 
 In the event of vesting of an Award pursuant to either Section 3(viii)(1) or Section 3(viii)(2), all restrictions and other limitations applicable to the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse and the Restricted
Stock Units shall be settled in unrestricted Stock or cash at the same times and upon the same events as it would otherwise have been made in accordance with the settlement provisions above.    
      Page 3 of 10  

(ix) 
 Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that this Award or the dividend equivalents associated with this Award are includible in income pursuant to section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code,
settlement of the Award or any other distribution hereunder due to Separation from Service with the Company and its subsidiaries shall not be made to a  specified employee  (as that term is defined in section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i)) prior to six
months after the specified employee s Separation from Service from the Company and its subsidiaries (or, if earlier, the date of death of the specified employee).    

(c) 
  Detrimental Activities and Suspension of Award .    

(i) 
 If the Authorized Party determines that, subsequent to the grant of any Award, the Employee has engaged or is engaging in any activity which, in the sole judgment of the Authorized Party, is or may be detrimental to the
Company or a subsidiary, the Authorized Party may cancel all or part of the Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units held in escrow pursuant to the Award or Awards granted to that Employee.    

(ii) 
 If the Authorized Party, in its or his sole discretion, determines that the lapsing of restrictions on Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units held in escrow pursuant to any Award has the possibility of violating any
law, regulation, or decree pertaining to the Company, any of its subsidiaries, or Employee, the Authorized Party may freeze or suspend the Employee s right to settlement or payout of the Award until such time as the lapse of restrictions would
no longer, in the sole discretion of the Authorized Party, have the possibility of violating such law, regulation, or decree.        

(iii) 
 Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Award is subject to forfeiture or recoupment, in whole or in part, under applicable law, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act.    

4. 
   Assignment of Award Upon Death  . Rights under the Plans and this Agreement cannot be assigned or transferred other than by (i) will or (ii) the laws of descent and distribution.    

5. 
   Tax Withholding  . In all cases the Employee will be responsible to pay all required withholding taxes applicable to the Award. Should a withholding tax obligation arise with regard to the Award or the
lapsing of restrictions on Restricted Stock Units granted in the Award, the withholding tax may be satisfied by withholding shares of Stock. The value of the units or shares of Stock withheld for this purpose shall be an amount consistent with
applicable laws and regulations. In cases where a withholding tax obligation arises prior to the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock Units granted in the Award, the withholding tax may be satisfied instead by payment of cash by the Employee.
Payment of cash shall not be allowed unless the Employee has elected to make such payment by payroll withholding over a period of six months following the date the obligation shall arise, which election must be made within thirty days of the Grant
Date of the relevant Award. If any interest is required under local laws, regulations, or decrees to be charged on or imputed against the payroll withholding, the Employee shall be responsible for paying such interest, which shall be withheld from
pay over the same  six-month  period. In cases where payment by payroll withholding cannot be made due to circumstances arising after the election or where the Authorized Party has determined that such
withholding would violate any applicable law, regulation, or decree, shares of Stock shall be withheld instead. When necessary, lapsing of restrictions may be accelerated by the Authorized Party to the extent necessary to provide shares of Stock to
satisfy any withholding tax obligation. This withholding tax obligation includes, but is not limited to, federal, state, and local taxes, including applicable  non-U.S.  taxes. If Australian tax law applies to
the Employee, then an Award is a scheme to which Subdivision  83A-C  of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 of Australia applies (subject to the conditions in that Act).    

6. 
   Shareholder Rights for Restricted Stock Units  . The Employee shall not have the rights of a shareholder until the Restricted Stock Unit has been canceled and ownership of shares of Stock has been
transferred to the Employee. As described above, the Company may pay dividend equivalents with regard to Restricted Stock Units in certain circumstances.    
      Page 4 of 10  

7. 
   Certain Adjustments  . In the event certain corporate transactions, recapitalizations, or stock splits occur while Restricted Stock Units are outstanding, the Grant Price and the number of shares of
Restricted Stock Units shall be correspondingly adjusted.        

8. 
   Relationship to the Plan  . In addition to the terms and conditions described in this Agreement, Awards are subject to all other applicable provisions of the Plan. The decisions of the Committee with respect
to questions arising as to the interpretation of the Plan or this Agreement or as to findings of fact shall be final, conclusive, and binding.        

9. 
   No Employment Guarantee  . No provision of this Agreement shall confer any right upon the Employee to continued employment with any Participating Company.    

10. 
   Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.    

11. 
   Amendment  . Without the consent of the Employee, this Agreement may be amended or supplemented (i) to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or
inconsistent with any other provision herein, or (ii) to add to the covenants and agreements of the Company for the benefit of an Employee or to add to the rights of an Employee or to surrender any right or power reserved to or conferred upon
the Company in this Agreement, provided, in each case, that such changes or corrections shall not adversely affect the rights of the Employee with respect to the grant of an Award evidenced hereby without the Employee s consent, or
(iii) to make such other changes as the Company, upon advice of counsel, determines are necessary or advisable because of the adoption or promulgation of, or change in or of the interpretation of, any law or governmental rule or regulation,
including any applicable federal or state securities or tax laws.    
      Page 5 of 10  

DEFINITIONS   
  Capitalized terms not defined below shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan.   
    Authorized Party      means the person who is authorized to approve an Award, exercise discretion or take action under the
Administrative Procedure for the Restricted Stock Program and pursuant to the Program. With regard to Senior Officers, the Committee is the Authorized Party. With regard to other Employees, the Chief Executive Officer, acting as the Special Equity
Award Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, is the Authorized Party, although the Committee may act concurrently as the Authorized Party. The Authorized Party may delegate duties and responsibilities regarding the operation of the
Program, other than the authority to grant an Award.       Award    means the Restricted Stock Units granted to the Employee pursuant to
the foregoing terms, conditions, and limitations.       Change of Control    has the meaning set forth in Attachment A to these Terms
and Conditions.       Chief Executive Officer    or    CEO    means the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  
    Committee    means the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, or any successor committee
to it.       Company      means ConocoPhillips a Delaware corporation.  
    Disability    means a disability for which the employee in question has been determined to be entitled to either (i) benefits
under the applicable plan of long-term disability of the Company or its subsidiaries or (ii) disability benefits under the Social Security Act. In the absence of any such determination, the Authorized Party may make a determination that the
employee has a Disability.       Fair Market Value    means, as of a particular date, the mean between the highest and lowest sales
price per share of such Stock on the consolidated transaction reporting system for the principal national securities exchange on which shares of Stock are listed on that date, or, if there shall have been no such sale so reported on that date, on
the next preceding date on which such a sale was so reported, or, at the discretion of the Committee, the price prevailing on the exchange at a designated time.  
    Grant Price    means the Fair Market Value for one share of Stock as of the date of the grant of an Award. Grant price is not adjusted
for any restrictions applicable to the Award.       Layoff      means an applicable Termination of Employment due to layoff under
the ConocoPhillips Severance Pay Plan, the ConocoPhillips Executive Severance Plan, or the ConocoPhillips Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan, or layoff or redundancy under any similar layoff or redundancy plan which the Company or its
subsidiaries may adopt from time to time. If all or any portion of the benefits under the redundancy or layoff plan are contingent on the employee s signing a general release of liability, such Termination shall not be considered as a
 Layoff  for purposes of this Award unless the employee executes and does not revoke a general release of liability, acceptable to the Company, under the terms of such layoff or redundancy plan. In order to be considered a layoff for
purposes of this Award, the Termination of Employment must also be considered a Separation from Service.       Participating Company   
includes ConocoPhillips and its 100% owned subsidiaries, including both those directly owned and those owned through subsidiaries, whose participation has been approved by the Authorized Party.  
    Restricted Stock Unit    means a unit equal to one share of Stock (as determined by the Authorized Party) that is subject to forfeiture
provisions or that has certain restrictions attached to the ownership thereof.  
      Page 6 of 10  

Retirement      means Termination at age 55 or older with a minimum of 5 years
service with a Participating Company; provided, however, that with regard to an Employee not on the United States payroll, the CEO may approve the use of a different definition. Service is defined by the policies of the Participating Company.  
    Senior Officer    means the Chairman of the Board, the CEO, all other executive officers of the Company (determined in accordance with
the Company s custom and practice pursuant to section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), all other employees of the Company who report directly to the CEO and whose salary grade is 23 or higher, and all other employees
of the Company whose salary grade is 26 or higher.       Separation from Service    means  separation from service  as that
term is used in section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.       Stock    means shares of common stock of the Company, par value $.01.
Stock may also be referred to as  Common Stock.        Termination    or    Termination of Employment   
means cessation of employment with the Participating Companies, determined in accordance with the policies and practices of the Participating Company for whom the Employee was last performing services.  
      Page 7 of 10  

Attachment  A    
   Change of Control       The
following definitions apply to the Change of Control provision in Section 10 of the Plan.      Affiliate  shall have the
meaning ascribed to such term in Rule  12b-2  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect at the time of determination.  
  Associate  shall mean, with reference to any Person, (a) any corporation, firm, partnership, association, unincorporated
organization or other entity (other than the Company or a subsidiary of the Company) of which such Person is an officer or general partner (or officer or general partner of a general partner) or is, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of
10% or more of any class of equity securities, (b) any trust or other estate in which such Person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such Person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity and (c) any relative or
spouse of such Person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same home as such Person.     Beneficial Owner  shall mean,
with reference to any securities, any Person if:    (a) such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates and Associates,
directly or indirectly, is the  beneficial owner  of (as determined pursuant to Rule  13d-3  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect at the time of determination) such
securities or otherwise has the right to vote or dispose of such securities;    (b) such Person or any of such Person s
Affiliates and Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right or obligation to acquire such securities (whether such right or obligation is exercisable or effective immediately or only after the passage of time or the occurrence of an event)
pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, other rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the
Beneficial Owner of, or to  beneficially own,  (i) securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for
purchase or exchange or (ii) securities issuable upon exercise of Exempt Rights; or    (c) such Person or any of such
Person s Affiliates or Associates (i) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) with any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) that beneficially owns such securities for the purpose of
acquiring, holding, voting (except as set forth in the proviso to subsection (a) of this definition) or disposing of such securities or (ii) is a member of a group (as that term is used in Rule
 13d-5(b)  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act) that includes any other Person that beneficially owns such securities;  
 provided, however, that nothing in this definition shall cause a Person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities to be the Beneficial Owner of, or
to  beneficially own,  any securities acquired through such Person s participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of 40 days after the date of such acquisition. For purposes hereof,
 voting  a security shall include voting, granting a proxy, consenting or making a request or demand relating to corporate action (including, without limitation, a demand for a shareholder list, to call a shareholder meeting or to inspect
corporate books and records) or otherwise giving an authorization (within the meaning of section 14(a) of the Exchange Act) in respect of such security.  
      Page 8 of 10  

The terms  beneficially own  and  beneficially owning  shall have meanings
that are correlative to this definition of the term  Beneficial Owner.      Board  shall have the meaning set forth in
the Plan.     Change of Control  shall mean any of the following occurring on or after January 1, 2017:  
 (a) any Person (other than an Exempt Person) shall become the Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock
then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding; provided, however, that no Change of Control shall be deemed to occur for purposes of this subsection (a) if such Person shall
become a Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding solely as a result of (i) any acquisition directly from the
Company or (ii) any acquisition by a Person pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of this definition;  
 (b) individuals who, as of January 1, 2017, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason
to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to January 1, 2017 whose election, or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at
least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; provided, further, that there shall be excluded, for this purpose, any such individual whose
initial assumption of office occurs as a result of any actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other
than the Board;    (c) the Company shall consummate a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange, consolidation, or
similar transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the acquisition of assets or securities of another entity by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries (a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) 50% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation, or common equity securities of an entity other than a
corporation, resulting from such Business Combination and the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of such corporation or other entity are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the Persons
who were the Beneficial Owners of the outstanding Common Stock immediately prior to such Business Combination in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the outstanding Common Stock,
(ii) no Person (excluding any Exempt Person or any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such Business Combination, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power
of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation, or common equity securities of an entity other than a corporation,
resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the  
      Page 9 of 10  

then outstanding Voting Stock of such corporation or other entity, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation, or the body which is most
analogous to the board of directors of a corporation if not a corporation, resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the initial agreement or initial action by the Board providing for such Business
Combination; or    (d) the shareholders of the Company shall approve a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company
unless such liquidation or dissolution is approved as part of a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of this definition.  
  Common Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Company  shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.  
  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  
  Exempt Person  shall mean any of the Company, any entity controlled by the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust)
sponsored or maintained by the Company or any entity controlled by the Company, and any Person organized, appointed, or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such employee benefit plan.  
  Exempt Rights  shall mean any rights to purchase shares of Common Stock or other Voting Stock of the Company if at the time of the
issuance thereof such rights are not separable from such Common Stock or other Voting Stock ( i.e. , are not transferable otherwise than in connection with a transfer of the underlying Common Stock or other Voting Stock), except upon the
occurrence of a contingency, whether such rights exist as of January 1, 2017 or are thereafter issued by the Company as a dividend on shares of Common Stock or other Voting Securities or otherwise.  
  Person  shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust, unincorporated organization, or other
entity.     Voting Stock  shall mean, (1) with respect to a corporation, all securities of such corporation of any class or
series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, directors of such corporation (excluding any class or series that would be entitled so to vote by reason of the occurrence of any contingency, so long as such
contingency has not occurred) and (ii) with respect to an entity which is not a corporation, all securities of any class or series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, members of the body which is
most analogous to the board of directors of a corporation.  
      Page 10 of 10  

</EX-10.27.15>

<EX-12>
 8
 d534096dex12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

Exhibit 12  
  CONOCOPHILLIPS AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES   
  TOTAL ENTERPRISE   
 Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges      

*  
  Includes a significant distribution from a Canadian joint venture.     

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 9
 d534096dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

Exhibit 21  
  SUBSIDIARY LISTING OF CONOCOPHILLIPS   
 Listed below are subsidiaries of the registrant at December 31, 2017. Certain subsidiaries are omitted since such companies considered in the aggregate
do not constitute a significant subsidiary.      

Company Name  

Incorporation  
  Location    

Alpine Pipeline Company  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Ashford Energy Capital Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   BR (Global) Holdings B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   BROG LP LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Burlington Resources (Irish Sea)
Limited  
    
 England  
 
   Burlington Resources (Netherlands)
B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Burlington Resources (UK) Holdings
Limited  
    
 England  
 
   Burlington Resources Algeria Holdings
Limited  
    
 Bermuda  
 
   Burlington Resources China Holdings
Limited  
    
 Bermuda  
 
   Burlington Resources China LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Burlington Resources International Holdings
LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Burlington Resources International
Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Burlington Resources LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Burlington Resources Oil   Gas Company
LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Burlington Resources Oriente Limited  
    
 Bermuda  
 
   Burlington Resources Trading LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Conoco Funding Company  
    
 Nova Scotia  
 
   Conoco Orinoco Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Conoco Petroleum Operations Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Conoco Syria Ltd.  
    
 Bermuda  
 
   ConocoPhillips
 (03-12)  Pty Ltd  
    
 Victoria  
 
   ConocoPhillips (Browse Basin) Pty Ltd  
    
 Western Australia  
 
   ConocoPhillips (Grissik) Ltd.  
    
 Bermuda  
 
   ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Eta Limited  
    
 England  
 
   ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Finance Limited  
    
 England  
 
   ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Limited  
    
 England  
 
   ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Sigma Limited  
    
 England  
 
   ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Theta Limited  
    
 England  
 
   ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Zeta Limited  
    
 England  
 
   ConocoPhillips Alaska, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   ConocoPhillips Angola 36 Ltd  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   ConocoPhillips ANS Marketing Company  
    
 Delaware  
 
   ConocoPhillips Australia Exploration Pty
Ltd  
    
 Western Australia  
 
   ConocoPhillips Australia Gas Holdings Pty
Ltd  
    
 Western Australia  
 
   ConocoPhillips Australia Holdings Pty
Ltd  
    
 Australia  
 
   ConocoPhillips Australia Pacific LNG Pty
Ltd.  
    
 Western Australia  
 
   ConocoPhillips Australia Pty Ltd  
    
 Western Australia  
 
   ConocoPhillips Bohai Limited  
    
 Bahamas  

Company Name  

Incorporation  
  Location    

ConocoPhillips Canada (North) ULC  
    
 Alberta  
 
   ConocoPhillips Canada (NS) 2426 ULC  
    
 Alberta  
 
   ConocoPhillips Canada Energy
Partnership  
    
 Alberta  
 
   ConocoPhillips Canada Funding Company
I  
    
 Nova Scotia  
 
   ConocoPhillips Canada Marketing  
Trading ULC  
    
 Alberta  
 
   ConocoPhillips Canada NS Partnership  
    
 Alberta  
 
   ConocoPhillips Canada Resources Corp.  
    
 Alberta  
 
   ConocoPhillips China Inc.  
    
 Liberia  
 
   ConocoPhillips Company  
    
 Delaware  
 
   ConocoPhillips Funding Ltd.  
    
 Bermuda  
 
   ConocoPhillips Golden Pass Holdings
LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   ConocoPhillips Holdings Limited  
    
 England  
 
   ConocoPhillips Indonesia Holding Ltd.  
    
 British Virgin Islands  
 
   ConocoPhillips JPDA Pty Ltd  
    
 Western Australia  
 
   ConocoPhillips Libya Waha Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   ConocoPhillips Marine Containment Holdings
LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   ConocoPhillips Norge  
    
 Delaware  
 
   ConocoPhillips Norway Funding Ltd.  
    
 Bermuda  
 
   ConocoPhillips Petroleum Company U.K.
Limited  
    
 England  
 
   ConocoPhillips Petroleum Holdings B.V.  

Netherlands  
 
   ConocoPhillips Pipeline Australia Pty
Ltd  
    
 Western Australia  
 
   ConocoPhillips Qatar Funding Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   ConocoPhillips Qatar Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   ConocoPhillips Sabah Gas Holdings
Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   ConocoPhillips Sabah Gas Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   ConocoPhillips Sabah Holdings Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   ConocoPhillips Sabah Ltd.  
    
 Bermuda  
 
   ConocoPhillips Skandinavia AS  
    
 Norway  
 
   ConocoPhillips STL Pty Ltd.  
    
 Western Australia  
 
   ConocoPhillips Surmont Partnership  
    
 Alberta  
 
   ConocoPhillips Transportation Alaska,
Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   ConocoPhillips
 WA-248  Pty Ltd  
    
 Western Australia  
 
   ConocoPhillips Western Canada
Partnership  
    
 Alberta  
 
   COP Holdings Limited  
    
 England  
 
   Darwin LNG Pty Ltd  
    
 Western Australia  
 
   Inexco Oil Company  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Pan East Petroleum Corp.  
    
 Ontario  
 
   Phillips International Investments,
Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Phillips Investment Company LLC  
    
 Nevada  
 
   Phillips Petroleum International Corporation
LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Phillips Petroleum International Investment
Company LLC  
    
 Delaware  

Phillips-San  Juan Partners, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Polar Tankers, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Sooner Insurance Company  
    
 Vermont  
 
   The Louisiana Land and Exploration Company
LLC  
    
 Maryland  
 
   ConocoPhillips Canada (North) ULC  
    
 Alberta  

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 10
 d534096dex231.htm
 EX-23.1

EX-23.1 

Exhibit 23.1  
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
 We consent to the incorporation by reference of our reports dated February 20, 2018, with respect to the consolidated financial statements, condensed
consolidating financial information, and financial statement schedule of ConocoPhillips, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of ConocoPhillips, included in this Annual Report (Form
 10-K)  for the year ended December 31, 2017, in the following registration statements and related prospectuses.      
   /s/ Ernst   Young
LLP                        Houston, Texas  
 February 20, 2018  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 11
 d534096dex232.htm
 EX-23.2

EX-23.2 

Exhibit 23.2  
  DeGolyer and MacNaughton     5001
Spring Valley Road    Suite 800 East  
 Dallas, Texas 75244    February 20, 2018  
 ConocoPhillips    600 North Dairy Ashford  
 Houston, Texas 77079    Ladies and Gentlemen:  
 We hereby consent to the use of the name DeGolyer and MacNaughton, to references to DeGolyer and MacNaughton as an independent petroleum
engineering consulting firm under  Part II  under the heading  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  under the subheading  Reserves Governance,  and under  Part IV  under the heading
 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  under the subheading  Index to Exhibits  in ConocoPhillips  Annual Report on Form  10-K  for the year ended December 31, 2017, and
to the inclusion of our process review letter report dated February 20, 2018, (our Report) as an exhibit to ConocoPhillips  Annual Report on Form  10-K  for the year ended December 31, 2017. We
also consent to the incorporation by reference of our Report in the Registration Statements filed by ConocoPhillips on  Form S-3   (No. 333-204107  and  No. 333-220845),  Form  S-4   (No. 333-130967),  and  Form S-8   (No. 333-98681,   No. 333-116216,   No. 333-133101,   No. 333-159318,   No. 333-171047,   No. 333-174479,   No. 333-196349,  and  No. 333-130967).   
 Very truly yours,  
  /s/ DeGolyer and MacNaughton   
 DeGOLYER and MacNAUGHTON  
 Texas Registered Engineering Firm  F-716   

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 12
 d534096dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1  
  CERTIFICATION     I, Ryan M. Lance, certify
that:      

1. 
 I have reviewed this annual report on Form  10-K  of ConocoPhillips;        

2. 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3. 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
 13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and  15d-15(f))  for the registrant and have:        

(a) 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;        

(b) 
 Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;        

(c) 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and        

(d) 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and    

5. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        

(a) 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and        

(b) 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.    
 February 20, 2018       

/s/ Ryan M. Lance   
 
   Ryan M. Lance   
 
   Chairman and 
 Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 13
 d534096dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2  
  CERTIFICATION     I, Don E. Wallette, Jr.,
certify that:      

1. 
 I have reviewed this annual report on Form  10-K  of ConocoPhillips;        

2. 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3. 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
 13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and  15d-15(f))  for the registrant and have:        

(a) 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;        

(b) 
 Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;        

(c) 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and        

(d) 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and    

5. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        

(a) 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and        

(b) 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.    
 February 20, 2018       

/s/ Don E. Wallette,
Jr.    
 
   Don E. Wallette, Jr.   
 
   Executive Vice President, Finance, Commercial 
 and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 14
 d534096dex32.htm
 EX-32

EX-32 

Exhibit 32  
  CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   
 In connection with the Annual Report of ConocoPhillips (the Company) on  Form 10-K  for the period ended
December 31, 2017, as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), each of the undersigned hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to their knowledge:      

(1) 
 The Report fully complies with the requirements of Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and        

(2) 
 The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    
 February 20, 2018       

/s/ Ryan M.
Lance    
 
   Ryan M. Lance   
 
   Chairman and 
 Chief Executive Officer   

/s/ Don E. Wallette,
Jr.    
 
   Don E. Wallette, Jr.   
 
   Executive Vice President, Finance, Commercial 
 and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-32>

<EX-99>
 15
 d534096dex99.htm
 EX-99

EX-99 

Exhibit 99  
  DeGolyer and MacNaughton     5001
Spring Valley Road    Suite 800 East  
 Dallas, Texas 75244    February 20, 2018  
 ConocoPhillips    600 North Dairy Ashford  
 Houston, Texas 77079    Re: SEC Process Review  
 Ladies and Gentlemen:  
     Pursuant to your request, DeGolyer and MacNaughton has performed a process review of the processes and controls used
within ConocoPhillips in preparing its internal estimates of proved reserves, as of December 31, 2017. This process review, which is contemplated by Item 1202 (a) (8) of Regulation  S-K  of the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), has been performed specifically to address the adequacy and effectiveness of ConocoPhillips  internal processes and controls relative to its estimation of proved reserves in compliance with
Rules 4 10(a) (1) (32) of Regulation S X of the SEC.        DeGolyer and MacNaughton has participated
as an independent member of the internal ConocoPhillips Reserves Compliance Assessment Team in reviews and discussions with each of the relevant ConocoPhillips business units relative to SEC proved reserves estimation. DeGolyer and MacNaughton
participated in the review of all major fields in all countries where ConocoPhillips has proved reserves worldwide, which ConocoPhillips has indicated represents over 90 percent of its estimated total proved reserves as of December 31,
2017.        The reviews with ConocoPhillips  technical staff involved presentations and discussions of a) basic
reservoir data, including seismic data,  well-log  data, pressure and production tests, core analysis, pressure-volume-temperature data, and production history, b) technical methods employed in SEC proved
reserves estimation, including performance analysis, geology, mapping, and volumetric estimates, c) economic analysis, and d) commercial assessment, including the legal basis for the interest in the reserves, primarily related to lease agreements
and other petroleum license agreements, such as concession and production sharing agreements.  

ConocoPhillips  
 February 20, 2018    Page 2 of 2  
     A field examination of the properties was not considered necessary for the purposes of this review of
ConocoPhillips  processes and controls.        It is our opinion that ConocoPhillips  estimates of proved
reserves for the properties reviewed were prepared by the use of recognized geologic and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry. The method or combination of methods used in the analysis of each reservoir was tempered by
ConocoPhillips  experience with similar reservoirs, stage of development, quality and completeness of basic data, and production history. It is our opinion that the general processes and controls employed by ConocoPhillips in estimating its
December 31, 2017, proved reserves for the properties reviewed are in accordance with the SEC reserves definitions.  
     This process review of ConocoPhillips  procedures and methods does not constitute a review, study, or independent
audit of ConocoPhillips  estimated proved reserves and corresponding future net revenues. This process review is not intended to indicate that DeGolyer and MacNaughton is offering any opinion as to the reasonableness of the reserves estimates
reported by ConocoPhillips.        DeGolyer and MacNaughton is an independent petroleum engineering consulting firm that
has been providing petroleum consulting services throughout the world since 1936. Neither DeGolyer and MacNaughton nor any employee who participated in this project has any financial interest, including stock ownership, in ConocoPhillips. Our fees
were not contingent on the results of our evaluation.    Very truly yours,  
  /s/ DeGolyer and MacNaughton   
 DeGOLYER and MacNAUGHTON  
 Texas Registered Engineering Firm  F-716   
  /s/ Charles F. Boyette   
 Charles F. Boyette, P.E.  
 President  
 DeGolyer and MacNaughton  

</EX-99>

<EX-101.INS>
 16
 cop-20171231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 17
 cop-20171231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 18
 cop-20171231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 19
 cop-20171231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 20
 cop-20171231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 21
 cop-20171231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

