<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20170214_10-K_edgar_data_318154_0000318154-17-000004_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>18633469</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>835478</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1163819</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6410726</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7477074</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2390280</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>92</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000318154-17-000004.hdr.sgml : 20170214
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20170214162105
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000318154-17-000004
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		136
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20161231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20170214
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20170214

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMGEN INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000318154
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS (NO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES) [2836]
		IRS NUMBER:				953540776
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-37702
		FILM NUMBER:		17609210

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE AMGEN CENTER DRIVE
		CITY:			THOUSAND OAKS
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			91320
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(805)447-1000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE AMGEN CENTER DRIVE
		CITY:			THOUSAND OAKS
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			91320

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	AMGEN
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19870305

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000318154-17-000004.txt : 20170214

10-K
 1
 amgn-12312016x10k.htm
 10-K

Document 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
  Form 10-K 
  (Mark One) 

For the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2016 
  OR 

Commission file number 001-37702 
  Amgen Inc. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
                   Delaware 
      
    95-3540776 
      (State or other jurisdiction of 
  incorporation or organization) 
      
    (I.R.S. Employer 
  Identification No.) 
      One Amgen Center Drive, 
      
    91320-1799 
      Thousand Oaks, California 
      
    (Zip Code) 
      (Address of principal executive offices) 

(805) 447-1000 
  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of Each Class 
      
    Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 
      Common stock, $0.0001 par value 
      
    The NASDAQ Global Select Market 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.        Yes           No      
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.        Yes           No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.        Yes           No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).        Yes           No      
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
                     Large accelerated filer   x 
    Accelerated filer     
    Non-accelerated filer     
    Smaller reporting company     

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act)        Yes           No      

The approximate aggregate market value of voting and non-voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $101,183,706,509 as of June 30,   2016  .   (A)   
    
           (A) 
    Excludes 83,869,173 shares of common stock held by directors and executive officers, and any stockholders whose ownership exceeds ten percent of the shares outstanding, at June 30, 2016. Exclusion of shares held by any person should not be construed to indicate that such person possesses the power, directly or indirectly, to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of the registrant, or that such person is controlled by or under common control with the registrant. 
     736,452,791 
  (Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of   February 9, 2017  ) 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Specified portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement with respect to the 2017 Annual Meeting of stockholders to be held   May 19, 2017  , are incorporated by reference into Part III of this annual report. 

INDEX 

Page No. 
       PART I  
      
    1 
      Item 1. 
     BUSINESS  
    1 
        
     Significant Developments  
    1 
        
     Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products  
    4 
        
     Reimbursement  
    9 
        
     Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials  
    10 
        
     Government Regulation  
    11 
        
     Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates  
    14 
        
     Business Relationships  
    18 
        
     Human Resources  
    20 
        
     Executive Officers of the Registrant  
    20 
        
     Geographic Area Financial Information  
    21 
        
     Investor Information  
    21 
      Item 1A. 
     RISK FACTORS  
    21 
      Item 1B. 
     UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  
    34 
      Item 2. 
     PROPERTIES  
    34 
      Item 3. 
     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  
    35 
      Item 4. 
     MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES  
    35 
       PART II  
      
    36 
      Item 5. 
     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  
    36 
      Item 6. 
     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  
    39 
      Item 7. 
     MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  
    40 
      Item 7A. 
     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  
    57 
      Item 8. 
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  
    59 
      Item 9. 
     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES  
    59 
      Item 9A. 
     CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  
    59 
      Item 9B. 
     OTHER INFORMATION  
    60 
       PART III  
      
    61 
      Item 10. 
     DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   
    61 
      Item 11. 
     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  
    61 
      Item 12. 
     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  
    62 
      Item 13. 
     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  
    63 
      Item 14. 
     PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  
    63 
       PART IV  
      
    64 
      Item 15. 
     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  
    64 
       SIGNATURES  
      
    69 

i 

PART I 
   
                 Item 1. 
    BUSINESS 

Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as  Amgen,   the Company,   we,   our  or  us ) is committed to unlocking the potential of biology for patients suffering from serious illnesses by discovering, developing, manufacturing and delivering innovative human therapeutics. This approach begins by using tools like advanced human genetics to unravel the complexities of disease and understand the fundamentals of human biology. 
  Amgen focuses on areas of high unmet medical need and leverages its expertise to strive for solutions that improve health outcomes and dramatically improve people s lives. A biotechnology pioneer, Amgen has grown to be one of the world s leading independent biotechnology companies, has reached millions of patients around the world and is developing a pipeline of medicines with breakaway potential. 
  Our strategy is to develop innovative medicines in six focused therapeutic areas that meet important unmet medical needs in addressing serious illness. We have a presence in approximately 100 countries worldwide focusing on: oncology/hematology, cardiovascular disease, inflammation, bone health, nephrology and neuroscience. 
  Amgen was incorporated in California in 1980 and became a Delaware corporation in 1987. Amgen operates in one business segment: human therapeutics. 
   
  Significant Developments 
  Following is a summary of significant developments affecting our business that have occurred and that we have reported since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, and in early 2017. 
  Products/Pipeline 
  Bone health 
  EVENITY        (romosozumab)* 
             
    In February 2016, we and UCB, our global collaboration partner in the development of EVENITY       , announced that the phase 3 FRAME (FRActure study in postmenopausal woMen with ostEoporosis) study met its co-primary endpoints. 
                
    In March 2016, we and UCB announced that the phase 3 BRIDGE (placeBo-contRolled study evaluatIng the efficacy anD safety of EVENITY        in treatinG mEn with osteoporosis) study met its primary endpoint. 
                
    In September 2016, we and UCB announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) accepted for review the Biologics License Application (BLA) for EVENITY        for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk for fracture. The FDA has set a Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) target action date of July 19, 2017. 
                
    In December 2016, we and UCB announced that we submitted an application to the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency in Japan, together with our joint venture partner Astellas Pharma, Inc., seeking marketing approval for EVENITY        for the treatment of osteoporosis for those at high risk of fracture. 
     Prolia        (denosumab) 
             
    In August 2016, we announced that the phase 3 randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, active-controlled study evaluating the safety and efficacy of Prolia        compared with risedronate in patients receiving glucocorticoid treatment met all primary and secondary endpoints at 12 months. 
     XGEVA          (denosumab) 
             
    In October 2016, we announced that the phase 3 study evaluating XGEVA        versus Zometa        (zoledronic acid) in the prevention of skeletal-related events (SREs) in patients with multiple myeloma met its primary endpoint of non-inferiority in delaying the time to first on-study SRE. The secondary endpoints of superiority in delaying time to first SRE and delaying time to first-and-subsequent SREs were not met. 
     
   1 

Cardiovascular 
  Repatha        (evolocumab) 
             
    In July 2016, we announced that the FDA approved the Repatha          Pushtronex        system (on-body infusor with prefilled cartridge), a new, monthly single-dose administration option. The   Pushtronex        system is a hands-free device designed to provide 420 mg of Repatha        in a single dose. 
                
    In September 2016, we announced that the phase 3 GLAGOV (GLobal Assessment of Plaque ReGression with a PCSK9 AntibOdy as Measured by IntraVascular Ultrasound) study evaluating the effect of Repatha        on coronary artery disease met its primary and secondary endpoints. 
                
    In December 2016, we announced that the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) adopted a positive opinion for an extension to the marketing authorization of a new 420 mg single-dose delivery option for Repatha       . 
                
    In January 2017, the United States District Court in Delaware granted Amgen s request for a permanent injunction prohibiting Sanofi, Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC, Aventisub LLC, formerly doing business as Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (collectively, Sanofi) and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Regeneron) from infringing two patents that Amgen holds for Repatha        by manufacturing, using, selling or offering alirocumab for sale in the United States. Sanofi and Regeneron subsequently appealed the case to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the Federal Circuit Court), and following a motion by Sanofi and Regeneron, in February 2017 the Federal Circuit Court entered a stay of the permanent injunction during the pendency of the appeal. See Part IV Note 18, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
                
    In February 2017, we announced that the phase 3 FOURIER (Further Cardiovascular OUtcomes Research with PCSK9 Inhibition in Subjects with Elevated Risk) study evaluating the effects of Repatha        on cardiovascular outcomes met its primary composite endpoint (cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI), non-fatal stroke, hospitalization for unstable angina or coronary revascularization) and key secondary composite endpoint (cardiovascular death, non-fatal MI or non-fatal stroke). No new safety issues were observed. 
                
    In February 2017, we announced that the phase 3 EBBINGHAUS (Evaluating PCSK9 Binding antiBody Influence oN coGnitive HeAlth in high cardiovascUlar risk Subjects) cognitive function study achieved its primary endpoint. 
     Inflammation 
  Enbrel        (etanercept) 
             
    In November 2016, we announced that the FDA approved the supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) for the expanded use of ENBREL, making it the first and only systemic therapy to treat pediatric patients (ages 4-17) with chronic moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis. 
     Nephrology 
  Parsabiv        (etelcalcetide)* 
             
    In November 2016, we announced that the European Commission (EC) granted marketing authorization for Parsabiv        for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (sHPT) in adult patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) who are on hemodialysis. 
                
    In February 2017, we announced that the FDA approved Parsabiv        for the treatment of sHPT in adult patients with CKD who are on hemodialysis. 
     Neuroscience 
  Erenumab (formerly AMG 334) 
             
    In June 2016, we announced that the global phase 2 study evaluating the efficacy and safety of erenumab in chronic migraine prevention met its primary endpoint. Erenumab is being developed jointly with Novartis AG (Novartis). 
                
    In September 2016, we announced that the phase 3 ARISE (A phase 3, RandomIzed, double-blind, placebo-controlled Study to Evaluate the efficacy and safety of erenumab in migraine prevention) study evaluating the efficacy of erenumab in episodic migraine prevention met its primary endpoint. 
                
    In November 2016, we announced the positive top-line results of the global phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled STRIVE (STudy to evaluate the efficacy and safety of erenumab in migRaIne preVEntion) study. The study met its primary endpoint. 
     
   2 

Oncology/Hematology 
  BLINCYTO        (blinatumomab) 
             
    In September 2016, we announced that the FDA approved the sBLA for BLINCYTO        to include new data supporting the treatment of pediatric patients with Philadelphia chromosome-negative (Ph-) relapsed or refractory (R/R) B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). 
                
    In February 2017, we announced the submission of a sBLA to the FDA to include overall survival data from the Phase 3 TOWER study, supporting the conversion of BLINCYTO        s accelerated approval to full approval. The sBLA also includes new data supporting the treatment of patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) R/R B-cell precursor ALL.       
     KYPROLIS        (carfilzomib) 
             
    In June 2016, the EC approved a variation to the marketing authorization for KYPROLIS        to include use in combination with dexamethasone alone for adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy. The EC approved the extended indication for KYPROLIS        based on data from the phase 3 head-to-head ENDEAVOR (RandomizEd, OpeN Label, Phase 3 Study of Carfilzomib Plus DExamethAsone Vs Bortezomib Plus DexamethasOne in Patients With Relapsed Multiple Myeloma) study. 
                
    In September 2016, we announced the top-line results of the phase 3 CLARION (Carfilzomib, Melphalan, Prednisone vs Bortezomib, Melphalan, Prednisone in Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma) study, which evaluated an investigational regimen of KYPROLIS       , melphalan and prednisone versus VELCADE        (bortezomib), melphalan and prednisone for 54 weeks in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who were ineligible for hematopoietic stem-cell transplant. The study did not meet the primary endpoint of superiority in progression-free survival (PFS). 
     Nplate            (romiplostim) 
             
    In April 2016, we announced that the phase 3 study of Nplate        in children with symptomatic immune thromobocytopenia met its primary endpoint. 
     Biosimilars 
  AMJEVITA        (adalimumab-atto) /ABP 501   
             
    In September 2016, we announced that the FDA approved AMJEVITA        across all eligible indications of the reference product, HUMIRA        (adalimumab), including treatment of psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis and moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in patients four years of age or older, chronic plaque psoriasis, adult Crohn s disease and ulcerative colitis. For discussion of ongoing, related litigation, see Part IV Note 18, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
                
    In January 2017, we announced that the CHMP of the EMA adopted a positive opinion for the marketing authorization of ABP 501, recommending approval for all available indications. 
     ABP 215 
             
    In November 2016, we and Allergan plc (Allergan), our collaboration partner in the development and commercialization of certain biosimilar candidates, announced the submission of a BLA to the FDA for ABP 215, a biosimilar candidate to Avastin        (bevacizumab). The FDA has accepted the BLA and set the Biosimilar User Fee Act target action date of September 14, 2017. 
                
    In December 2016, we and Allergan announced the submission of a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) to the EMA for ABP 215. 
     ABP 980 
             
    In July 2016, we and Allergan announced the results from a phase 3 study evaluating the efficacy and safety of ABP 980 compared with trastuzumab (Herceptin       ) in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive early breast cancer. The results ruled out inferiority compared to trastuzumab but could not rule out superiority based on its primary efficacy endpoint of the difference of the percentage of patients with a pathologic complete response. 
     * FDA provisionally approved trade name 
  
   3 

Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products 
  The largest concentration of our sales and marketing forces is based in the United States and Europe. Additionally, we continue to expand the commercialization and marketing of our products into other geographic territories, including parts of Latin America, the Middle East and Asia. This expansion is occurring by either establishing our own affiliate, acquiring existing third- party businesses or product rights or in partnering with third parties. Use of our own sales and marketing forces versus a third-party s varies across these markets. Such use typically depends on several factors including the nature of entry into the new market, the size of opportunity and the operational capabilities. Together with our partners, we market our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. 
  In the United States, we sell primarily to pharmaceutical wholesale distributors that we utilize as the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers. We also market certain products directly to consumers through direct-to-consumer print and television advertising, as well as through multi-channel marketing. For further discussion, see Government Regulation Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. Outside the United States, we sell principally to healthcare providers and/or pharmaceutical wholesale distributors depending on the distribution practice in each country. 
  Our product sales to three large wholesalers, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, McKesson Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years ended   December 31, 2016  , 2015 and 2014. On a combined basis, these wholesalers accounted for approximately 96%, 97% and 94% of our U.S. gross product sales, respectively, and approximately 81%, 81% and 77% of our worldwide gross revenues, respectively. We monitor the financial condition of our larger customers and limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits and, in certain circumstances, by requiring letters of credit. 
  For financial information related to our one business segment, see Part IV Consolidated Statements of Income, Consolidated Balance Sheets, and Note 19, Segment information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Our products are marketed around the world with the United States being our largest market. The following chart shows our product sales by principal product and by geography for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. 

4 

Enbrel        (etanercept) 
  We market ENBREL primarily in the United States. It was launched in 1998 and is used primarily in indications for the treatment of adult patients with the following conditions: 
             
    moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis, 
                
    chronic moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis patients who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy, and 
                
    active psoriatic arthritis. 
     Neulasta        (pegfilgrastim) 
  We market Neulasta       , a pegylated protein based on the filgrastim molecule, primarily in the United States and Europe. Neulasta        was launched in 2002, and is used primarily in the indication to help reduce the chance of infection due to a low white blood cell count, in people with certain types of cancer (non-myeloid) who receive anti-cancer medicines (chemotherapy) that can cause fever and a low blood cell count. In 2015, the Neulasta        Onpro        kit became available in the United States. 
  Aranesp        (darbepoetin alfa) 
  We market Aranesp        primarily in Europe and the United States. It was launched in 2001, and is indicated to treat a lower-than-normal number of red blood cells (anemia) caused by CKD (in both patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis). Aranesp        is also indicated for the treatment of anemia due to concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy in patients with non-myeloid malignancies, and when chemotherapy will be used for at least two months after starting Aranesp       . 
  Aranesp        and EPOGEN        compete with each other in the United States, primarily in the dialysis setting. 
  Prolia        (denosumab) 
  We market Prolia        primarily in the United States and Europe. It contains the same active ingredient as XGEVA        but is approved for different indications, patient populations, doses and frequencies of administration. Prolia        was launched in the United States and Europe in 2010. In the United States, it is used primarily in the indication for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture, defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture, or multiple risk factors for fracture, or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. In Europe, Prolia        is used primarily for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk of fracture. 
  Sensipar       /Mimpara        (cinacalcet) 
  We market cinacalcet as Sensipar        primarily in the United States and as Mimpara        primarily in Europe. It was launched in 2004 and is used primarily in the indication for the treatment of sHPT in adult patients with CKD who are on dialysis. 
  XGEVA        (denosumab) 
  We market XGEVA        primarily in the United States and Europe. XGEVA        was launched in the United States in 2010, and is used primarily in the indication for the prevention of SREs (pathological fracture, radiation to bone, spinal cord compression or surgery to bone) in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors. It is not indicated for the prevention of SREs in patients with multiple myeloma. XGEVA        was launched in Europe in 2011, and is used primarily in the indication for the prevention of SREs in adults with bone metastases from solid tumors. 
  EPOGEN        (epoetin alfa) 
  We market EPOGEN        in the United States for dialysis patients. EPOGEN        was launched in 1989, and we market it for the indication to treat anemia caused by CKD in patients on dialysis to lessen the need for red blood cell transfusions. The majority of our sales are to two large dialysis providers. 
  NEUPOGEN        (filgrastim) 
  We market NEUPOGEN       , a recombinant-methionyl human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), primarily in the United States, Canada and Europe. NEUPOGEN        was launched in 1991 and is used primarily in the indication to help reduce the chance of infection due to a low white blood cell count in people with certain types of cancer (non-myeloid) who receive anti-cancer medicines (chemotherapy) that can cause fever and a low blood cell count. 
  Other Marketed Products 
  We market several other products, including KYPROLIS        (carfilzomib), Vectibix        (panitumumab), Nplate        (romiplostim), Repatha        (evolocumab), BLINCYTO        (blinatumomab), IMLYGIC        (talimogene laherparepvec) and Corlanor        (ivabradine). 
  
   5 

Patents 
  The following table describes our outstanding material patents for the indicated product by territory, general subject matter and latest expiry date. Certain of the European patents are the subject of supplemental protection certificates that provide additional protection for the product in certain European countries beyond the dates listed in the table (see footnotes). 
  One or more patents with the same or earlier expiry date may fall under the same  general subject matter  and are not listed separately. 

6 

(1)   
    A European patent with this subject matter may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe, and the length of any such extension will vary by country. For example, supplementary protection certificates have been issued related to the indicated products for patents in at least the following countries: 
                
    pegfilgrastim   France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in August 2017 
                
    denosumab       France, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom  , expiring in   2025 
                
    cinacalcet   France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2019 
                
    panitumumab   France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2022 
                
    romiplostim   France, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2024 
                
    carfilzomib   France and Germany, expiring in 2028 
               (2)   
    The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued a Notice of Final Determination that a patent with this subject matter is eligible for patent term extension with an expiry of September 17, 2021. 
               (3)   
    A patent with this subject matter may be entitled to patent term extension in the United States. 
     Competition 
  We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. Our competitors market products or are actively engaged in research and development (R D) in areas in which we have products or in which we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. Our competitive positions may be based on, among other things, safety, efficacy, reliability, availability, patient convenience/delivery devices, price, reimbursement, access to and timing of market entry and patent position and expiration. 
  Certain of the existing patents on our principal products have expired, and we face new and increasing competition, including from biosimilars. We may also compete against biosimilar or generic versions of our competitors  products. A biosimilar is another version of a biological product for which marketing approval is sought or has been obtained based on a demonstration that it is  highly similar  to the original reference product. See Government Regulation. We expect the adverse impact from biosimilars to be more like branded biologics than generic small molecules. Although we expect biosimilars to compete on price, we believe many patients, providers and payers will continue to place high value on the reputation, reliability and safety of our products. Zarxio       , a biosimilar version of NEUPOGEN        from Sandoz, a Novartis company (Sandoz), which launched in the United States in 2015, was the first biosimilar entrant into the U.S. market. Companies have pending applications with the FDA for biosimilar versions of EPOGEN        and Neulasta       , along with additional biosimilar versions of NEUPOGEN       . We are well positioned to compete and will leverage the experience we have had in the United States versus branded competition, as well as our considerable experience in competing against epoetin alfa and filgrastim biosimilars in Europe. 
  The introduction of new products, the development of new processes or technologies by competitors or the emergence of new information about existing products may result in increased competition for our marketed products, even for those protected by patents, or in reductions in the prices we receive from selling our products. In addition, the development of new treatment options or standards of care may reduce the use of our products or may limit the utility and application of ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates (as used in this document, clinical trials may include prospective clinical trials, observational studies, registries and other studies). See Item 1A. Risk Factors Our products face substantial competition and Item 1A. Risk Factors We currently face competition from biosimilars and expect to face increasing competition in the future. 
  
   7 

The following table reflects our significant competitors and is not exhaustive. 
                           Product 
      
    Territory 
      
    Competitor Marketed Product 
      
    Competitors 
      ENBREL 
      
    U.S.   Canada 
      
    REMICADE       * 
      
    Janssen Biotech, Inc. (Janssen)   (1)   /Merck   Company, Inc. (Merck) 
        
    U.S.   Canada 
      
    HUMIRA      
      
    AbbVie Inc. 
        
    U.S.   Canada 
      
    STELARA    (2)  
      
    Janssen   (1)  
      Neulasta      
      
    Europe 
      
    Filgrastim biosimilars 
      
    Various 
      Aranesp      
      
    U.S. 
      
    PROCRIT    (3)  
      
    Janssen   (1)  
        
    U.S. 
      
    MIRCERA    (4)  
      
    Galenica Group (Galenica)/F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. (Roche) 
        
    Europe 
      
    Epoetin alfa biosimilars 
      
    Various 
      Prolia      
      
    U.S.   Europe 
      
    Alendronate, raloxifene and zoledronate generics 
      
    Various 
      Sensipar    (5)   / 
  Mimpara      
      
    U.S.   Europe 
      
    Active Vitamin D analogs 
      
    Various 
      XGEVA      
      
    U.S.   Europe 
      
    Zoledronate generics 
      
    Various 
      EPOGEN      
      
    U.S. 
      
    MIRCERA    (4)  
      
    Galenica/Roche 
      NEUPOGEN      
      
    U.S. 
      
    Granix      
      
    Teva Pharmacueticals Industries Ltd. (Teva) 
        
    U.S. 
      
    Zarxio      
      
    Sandoz 
        
    Europe 
      
    Filgrastim biosimilars 
      
    Various 
      KYPROLIS    (7)  
      
    U.S. 
      
    VELCADE      
      
    Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   (6)  
        
    U.S. 
      
    REVLIMID      
      
    Celgene Corporation (Celgene) 
        
    U.S. 
      
    POMALYST      
      
    Celgene 
      Repatha      
      
    U.S.   Europe 
      
    PRALUENT      
      
    Regeneron 
  Sanofi 

*  
    Approved biosimilar available 
               (1)   
    A subsidiary of Johnson   Johnson (J J). 
               (2)   
    Dermatology only. 
               (3)   
    PROCRIT        competes with Aranesp        in the supportive cancer care and pre-dialysis settings. 
               (4)   
    MIRCERA        competes with Aranesp        in the nephrology segment only. 
               (5)   
    Teva and Barr Pharmaceuticals have received tentative approval from the FDA for generic versions of Sensipar        that could compete with Sensipar        in the future. There is an injunction prohibiting them from commercializing in the United States until expiration of the Sensipar        patents. 
               (6)   
    A wholly owned subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited. 
               (7)   
    KYPROLIS        is facing increased competition from several recently approved products. 
     
   8 

Reimbursement 
  Sales of our principal products are dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. In many markets around the world, these payers, including government health systems, private health insurers and other organizations, continue to be focused on reducing the cost of healthcare. Their efforts have intensified as a result of rising healthcare costs and economic challenges. Drugs, and in particular specialty drugs such as our products, remain a focus for cost containment by these parties. As a result, payers around the world are being more restrictive regarding the use of biopharmaceutical products while requiring a higher level of clinical evidence to support the benefit such products bring to patients and the broader healthcare system. 
  The scrutiny of biopharmaceutical pricing in the United States remains intense and a point of focus in the discussion of rising healthcare costs. The pricing practices of certain companies have increased public media and government scrutiny of the biopharmaceutical industry, providing greater incentive for governments and private payers to limit or regulate the price of drug products and services. At the same time, value assessments of new technology, previously used predominantly outside the United States, are having an impact in the U.S. healthcare environment. Healthcare provider organizations and independent organizations are creating their own value assessments of biopharmaceutical drugs for comparison with manufacturer pricing. Although these organizations do not set drug prices, they seek to influence pricing as well as payer and provider decision making by publicly disclosing their assessments, often making assertions around what they believe to be the appropriate price to charge for a product. These developments put greater pressure on access to, pricing of and sales of our products. 
  In the United States, healthcare providers are reimbursed for covered services and products they deliver through Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs, as well as through private payers. Pharmacies are also reimbursed in a similar manner for drug products they dispense. We are required to provide specified rebates or discounts on the products we sell to certain government funded programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, and those rebates or discounts have increased over time. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), enacted in 2010, increased many of the mandatory discounts and rebates required of us and imposed a new Branded Prescription Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Importers fee payable each year by us and other manufacturers. The new U.S. presidential administration has identified repealing and replacing the ACA as a priority. The timing and method of repeal and replacement legislation is uncertain but changes could include the number of patient lives covered, the quality of the insurance, Medicaid eligibility and the level of patient protections provided. 
  Further efforts by government agencies and state legislatures in the United States could also affect us and our industry. For example, a recently enacted Vermont law requires manufacturers to submit price increase justifications to the state attorney general if certain price increase and state spending thresholds are met. Examples of other proposals that have been discussed and debated, but not yet enacted, include state ballot initiatives that would place a maximum price ceiling, or cap, on pharmaceutical products purchased by state agencies and state legislative efforts to cap pharmaceutical prices for commercial payers. Other legislative and regulatory actions that would have a significant impact on Amgen include: changes to how the Medicare program covers and reimburses current and future drugs, including for patients with End-Stage Renal Disease; changes in the Federal payment rate or new rebate requirements for covered drugs and policies for payment in Medicare or Medicaid; and changes to coverage and payment for biosimilars, including the current Medicare biosimilar coverage and payment policies intended to encourage biosimilar adoption, or other policies that provide easier substitution or reimbursement advantages. 
  In the U.S. private sector, healthcare providers and payers continue to institute cost reduction and containment measures that lower drug spending altogether or shift a greater portion of the costs to patients. Such measures include more limited benefit plan designs, higher tier formulary placement that increases the level of patient out of pocket costs and stricter utilization criteria before a patient may get access to a drug. In the retail pharmacy sector, in which the majority of our sales for ENBREL, Sensipar        and Repatha        occur, the use of such measures by Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) and insurers has continued to intensify which have limited Amgen product usage and revenues. PBMs are third-party organizations tasked with administrating prescription drug programs for large employers, health plans and government programs. Consolidation has resulted in a smaller number of PBMs and insurers overseeing a large portion of total covered lives in the United States; for example three PBMs oversee approximately 75% of covered lives in the United States. As a result, PBMs and insurers have greater market power and negotiating leverage to exclude drugs from their formularies in favor of competitor drugs or alternative treatments, and/or to mandate stricter utilization criteria. Formulary exclusion effectively encourages patients and providers to seek alternative treatments or pay 100% of the cost of a drug. Recent experience with Repatha        underscores that utilization management requirements continue to be onerous for patients and physicians, limiting access to appropriate usage. In highly competitive treatment markets such as with ENBREL, PBMs are also able to exert negotiating leverage by requiring incremental rebates from manufacturers in order to maintain their formulary position. A drug s favorable position on formulary is essential to ensure patients have access. 
  In general, in countries outside the United States, government-sponsored healthcare systems are the primary payers for drugs and biologics. With increased budgetary constraints, payers in many countries apply a variety of measures to exert downward price pressure. These measures can include mandatory price controls, price referencing, therapeutic reference pricing, increases in mandates or incentives for generic substitution and biosimilar usage, and government-mandated price cuts. We expect that  
  
   9 

countries will continue to take aggressive actions to reduce expenditures on drugs and biologics. Similarly, fiscal constraints may also impact the extent to which countries are willing to approve new and innovative therapies and/or allow access to new technologies. For example, many Health Technology Assessment (HTA) organizations use formal economic metrics such as cost-effectiveness to determine coverage and reimbursement of new therapies, and these organizations are proliferating in established and emerging markets. 
  The dynamics and developments discussed above serve to create pressure on the pricing and potential usage of our products, and the industry as a whole. We remain focused on delivering breakthrough treatments for unmet medical needs. Amgen is committed to working with the entire healthcare community to ensure continued innovation and to enable patient access to needed medicines. We do this by: 
     investing billions of dollars annually in research and development; 
     developing more affordable therapeutic choices in the form of high-quality and reliably-supplied biosimilars; 
     pricing our medicines to reflect the value they provide; 
     partnering with payers to share risk and accountability for health outcomes; 
     providing patient support and education programs and helping patients in financial need access our medicines; and 
             
    working with policymakers, patients and other stakeholders to establish a sustainable healthcare system with access to affordable care and where patients and their healthcare professionals are the primary decision makers. 
     See Item 1A. Risk Factors Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures may affect our profitability and Item 1A. Risk Factors Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. 
   
  Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials 
  Manufacturing 
  We believe we are a leader in the manufacturing of biologics and that our manufacturing capabilities represent a competitive advantage. The products we manufacture consist of both biologics and small molecule drugs. The majority of our products are biologics that are produced in living cells and that are inherently complex due to naturally-occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are required to transform laboratory-scale processes into reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. For additional information regarding manufacturing facilities, see Item 2. Properties. 
  We perform most of our bulk manufacturing, formulation, and/or fill and finish activities in our Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, California and Ireland facilities and also conduct finish activities in the Netherlands. In addition, we utilize third-party contract manufacturers to supplement our commercial manufacturing requirements. 
  We manufacture products to support our clinical trials primarily in our California and Rhode Island locations. We also utilize third-party contract manufacturers for certain clinical products. 
  See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the factors that could adversely impact our manufacturing operations and the global supply of our products. 
  Distribution 
  We operate distribution centers in Kentucky, California and the Netherlands for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and clinical products. We also use third-party distributors to supplement distribution of our products worldwide. 
  Other 
  In addition to the manufacturing and distribution activities noted above, our operations in the United States, the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and the Netherlands include key manufacturing support functions, including quality control, process development, procurement, production scheduling and warehousing. Certain of those manufacturing and distribution activities are highly regulated by the FDA as well as other international regulatory agencies. See Government Regulation Regulation in the United States Regulation of Manufacturing Standards. 
  
   10 

Manufacturing Initiatives 
  We have multiple ongoing initiatives that are designed to extend our manufacturing advantage by optimizing our manufacturing network and/or mitigating manufacturing risks while continuing to ensure adequate supply of our products. We have initiated the bulk process qualification campaign to facilitate licensure at our biologics manufacturing facility in Singapore. Upon licensure, this facility will expand our capability to manufacture cell culture products utilizing new technology and innovation. The facility will be fully reconfigurable, providing efficient manufacturing capabilities to help ensure supply of our products worldwide. Our first product to be manufactured in the facility will be denosumab. We are also constructing an additional new facility at the site in Singapore to enable the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient for KYPROLIS       . 
  In addition to these initiatives, we have projects designed to optimize manufacturing asset utilization, to continue our use of third-party contract manufacturers and to maintain a state of regulatory compliance. This includes manufacturing network consolidation initiatives as well as process improvements surrounding manufacturing. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. 
  Raw Materials and Medical Devices 
  Certain raw materials, medical devices, including companion diagnostics, and components necessary for the commercial and/or clinical manufacturing of our products are provided by and are the proprietary products of unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of which may be our only sources for such materials. We currently attempt to manage the risk associated with such suppliers by inventory management, relationship management and evaluation of alternative sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial condition of certain suppliers and their ability to supply our needs. See Item 1A. Risk Factors We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components. 
  We perform various procedures to assist us in authenticating the source of raw materials, including intermediary materials used in the manufacture of our products, which include verification of the country of origin. The procedures are incorporated into the manufacturing processes we and our third-party contract manufacturers perform. 
   
  Government Regulation 
  Regulation by government authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the production and marketing of our products and our ongoing R D activities. In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies. Compliance with these standards is complex and failure to comply with any of these standards can result in significant implications. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that can adversely impact our development and marketing of commercial products including global regulatory implications. 
  Regulation in the United States 
  In the United States, the Public Health Service Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the production, research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion, and distribution of our products, as well as the reporting of certain payments and other transfers of value to healthcare professionals and teaching hospitals. 
  Clinical Development and Product Approval.   Drug development in our industry is complex, challenging and risky; and failure rates are high. Product development cycles are typically very long approximately 10 to 15 years from discovery to market. A potential new medicine must undergo many years of preclinical and clinical testing to establish its safety and efficacy for use in humans at appropriate dosing levels and with an acceptable risk-benefit profile. 
  After laboratory analysis and preclinical testing in animals, we file an Investigational New Drug Application (IND) with the FDA to begin human testing. Typically, we undertake an FDA-designated three-phase human clinical testing program. 
             
    In phase 1, we conduct small clinical trials to investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of our product candidates in a small number of human subjects. 
                
    In phase 2, we conduct clinical trials to investigate side effect profiles and the efficacy of our product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study. 
                
    In phase 3, we conduct clinical trials to investigate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study. 
     The FDA monitors the progress of each trial conducted under an IND and may, at its discretion, re-evaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based on the data accumulated to that point and the FDA s risk-benefit assessment with regard to the  
  
   11 

patients enrolled in the trial. The results of preclinical and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for biologic products or an NDA for small molecule products. We are not permitted to market or promote a new product until the FDA has approved our marketing application. 
  Approval of Biosimilars  .     The ACA authorized the FDA to approve biosimilars via a separate, abbreviated pathway. The pathway allows sponsors of a biosimilar to seek and obtain regulatory approval based in part on the non-clinical and clinical trial data of an originator product to which the biosimilar has been demonstrated to be  highly similar  and to have no clinically meaningful differences in terms of safety, purity, and potency. The relevance of demonstrating  similarity  is that in many cases, biosimilars can be brought to market without conducting the full suite of clinical trials typically required of originators, as risk-benefit has previously been established. In order to preserve incentives for future innovation, the law establishes a period of exclusivity for originators  products, which in general prohibits biosimilars from gaining FDA approval based in part on reliance on or reference to the originator s data in their application to the FDA for 12 years after FDA approval of the originator product. The law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic products. The FDA has released a number of guidance documents as part of the implementation of the abbreviated approval pathway for biosimilars, some of which remain in draft form. As of the end of 2016, four biosimilar applications have been approved by the FDA, including AMJEVITA       .   A number of manufacturers have announced the filing of marketing applications to the FDA under the biosimilar pathway, some of which are for biosimilars of our products. 
  Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion  . The FDA regulates the marketing and promotion of products. Our product promotion for approved product indications must comply with the statutory standards of the FDCA, and the FDA s implementing regulations and standards. The FDA s review of marketing and promotional activities encompasses, but is not limited to, direct-to-consumer advertising, healthcare provider-directed advertising and promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare professionals, promotional programming and promotional activities involving electronic media. The FDA may also review industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities that make representations regarding product safety or efficacy in a promotional context. The FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product or for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws and regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters, which may require corrective advertising or other corrective communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with the FDA s regulations also can result in adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the U.S. Congress or other legislators. Additionally, as described below, such failure may lead to additional liability under U.S. health care fraud and abuse laws. 
  Regulation of Manufacturing Standards  . The FDA regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes used in the manufacturing and testing of products prior to providing approval to market products. If after receiving approval from the FDA, we make a material change in manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional regulatory review may be required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA conducts regular, periodic visits to re-inspect our equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes following an initial approval. 
  Regulation of Combination Products  . Combination products are defined by the FDA to include products composed of two or more regulated components (e.g., a biologic and/or drug and a device). Biologics/Drugs and devices each have their own regulatory requirements, and combination products may have additional requirements. A number of our marketed products meet this definition and are regulated under this framework, and we expect that a number of our pipeline product candidates will be evaluated for regulatory approval under this framework as well. 
  Regulation Outside the United States 
  In the European Union (EU) countries as well as Switzerland, Canada,   Australia and Japan  , regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar in principle to those in the United States. 
  In the EU, there are currently two potential tracks for seeking marketing approval for a product which is not authorized in any Member State; a decentralized procedure; and a centralized procedure. In the decentralized procedure, identical applications for marketing authorization are submitted simultaneously to the national regulatory agencies.     Regulatory review is led by one Member State (the Reference Member State) and its assessment     based on safety, quality and efficacy     is reviewed and approved (assuming there are no concerns that the product poses a serious risk to public health) by the other Member States from which the applicant is seeking approval (the Concerned Member States). The decentralized procedure leads to a series of single national approvals in all relevant countries. In the centralized procedure, which is required of all products derived from biotechnology, a company submits a single MAA to the EMA, which conducts an evaluation of the dossier, drawing upon its scientific resources across Europe. If the drug product is proven to fulfill the requirements for quality, safety and efficacy, the EMA s CHMP adopts a positive opinion, which is transmitted to the EC for final decision on grant of the marketing authorization. While the EC generally follows the CHMP     s opinion, it is not bound to do so. Subsequent commercialization is enabled by country-by-country reimbursement approval. 
  
   12 

In the EU, biosimilars are approved under a specialized pathway of the centralized procedure. As with the U.S. pathway, applicants seek and obtain regulatory approval for a biosimilar once the data exclusivity period for the original reference product has expired relying in part on the data submitted for the originator product together with data evidencing that the biosimilar is  highly similar  in terms of quality, safety and efficacy to the original reference product authorized in the European Economic Area. 
  Other countries such as Russia, Turkey and those in Latin America and the Middle East have review processes and data requirements similar to those of the EU, and in some cases rely on prior marketing approval from U.S. or EU regulatory authorities. The regulatory process in these countries may include manufacturing/testing facility inspections, testing of drug product upon importation and other domestic requirements. 
  In Asia Pacific, a number of countries such as China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan may require local clinical trial data for bridging purposes as part of the drug registration process in addition to global clinical trials, which can add to overall drug development and registration timelines. In most of the Asian markets, registration timelines depend on marketing approval in the United States or the EU. In some markets in Asia, such as China, Thailand, and Indonesia, the regulatory timelines can be less predictable. The regulatory process may also include manufacturing/testing facility inspections, testing of drug product upon importation and other domestic requirements. Countries such as Australia and Japan have more mature systems that would allow for submissions in more competitive timeframes. Regarding biosimilars, several of these countries have pathways to register biosimilars (e.g., South Korea, India, Australia, Singapore and Taiwan) and biosimilar products are already present on the markets (e.g., Australia and South Korea). 
  In some countries, such as Japan and those in the EU, medical devices may be subject to regulatory regimes whereby the manufacturer must establish that its medical device conforms to essential requirements set out in the law for the particular device category. For example, in the EU, with limited exceptions, medical devices placed on the market must bear the   Conformit  Europ enne   marking to indicate their conformity with legal requirements. 
  Post-approval Phase 
  After approval, we continue to monitor adverse events reported following the use of our products through post marketing routine pharmacovigilance surveillance and studies when applicable. We report such events to the appropriate regulatory agencies, as required per local regulations for individual cases and aggregate reports. We proactively monitor (according to good pharmacovigilance practices) and ensure implementation of signal detection, assessment and the communication of adverse events that may be associated with the use of our products. We may also be required by regulatory agencies to conduct further clinical trials on our marketed products as a condition of their approval or to provide additional information on safety and efficacy. Health authorities, including the FDA, have authority to mandate labeling changes to products at any point in a product s lifecycle based on new safety information or as part of an evolving label change to a particular class of products. 
  Health authorities, including the FDA, also have the authority, before or after approval, to require companies to implement a risk management program for a product to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. Each risk management program is unique and varies depending on the specific factors required. In the United States, a risk management program is known as a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS) and we currently have REMS for Prolia       , Nplate        and BLINCYTO       , as well as for our erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs), which includes EPOGEN        and Aranesp       . 
  Other Regulation 
  We are also subject to various laws pertaining to healthcare  fraud and abuse,  including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. False claims laws prohibit knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid) any claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as by the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Liability under the false claims laws may also arise when a violation of certain laws or regulations related to the underlying products (e.g., violations regarding improper promotional activity or unlawful payments) contributes to the submission of a false claim. 
  In 2012, Amgen announced it had finalized a settlement agreement with the U.S. government and various other parties regarding allegations that Amgen s promotional, contracting, sales and marketing activities and arrangements caused the submission of various false claims under the Federal Civil False Claims Act and various State False Claims Acts. In connection with entering into the settlement agreement, Amgen also entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that requires Amgen to maintain its corporate compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. Due to the breadth of the  
  
   13 

statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that in the future our practices might be further challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. 
  Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. 
  Our business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules and/or regulations. 
   
  Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates 
  We focus our R D on novel human therapeutics for the treatment of serious illness in the areas of oncology/hematology, cardiovascular disease, inflammation, bone health, nephrology and neuroscience. We take a modality-independent approach to R D with a focus on biologics. We use cutting-edge science and technology to study the subtle biological mechanisms in search of therapies that will improve the lives of those who suffer from diseases. Our discovery research programs may therefore yield targets that lead to the development of human therapeutics delivered as large molecules, small molecules, or other combination or new modalities. Human genetic validation is used whenever possible to enhance the likelihood of success. For the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , our R D expenses were   $3.8 billion  ,   $4.1 billion   and   $4.3 billion  , respectively. 
  We have major R D centers in several locations throughout the United States (including Thousand Oaks and San Francisco, California and Cambridge, Massachusetts), in Iceland and in the United Kingdom, as well as smaller research centers and development facilities globally. See Item 2. Properties. 
  We conduct clinical trial activities by using both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial service providers. To increase the number of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials, we have opened clinical sites and will continue opening clinical sites and enrolling patients in a number of geographic locations. See Government Regulation Clinical Development and Product Approval for a discussion of government regulation over clinical development. Also see Item 1A. Risk Factors We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications. 
  Some of our competitors are actively engaged in R D in areas where we have products or where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. For example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible patients, which may limit the number of available patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. The competitive marketplace for our product candidates is significantly dependent on the timing of entry into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance, thereby contributing to a product s eventual success and profitability. Accordingly, we expect that in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval and supply commercial quantities of a product to the market will be important to our competitive position. 
  In addition to product candidates and marketed products generated from our internal R D efforts, we acquire companies, acquire and license certain product and R D technology rights and establish R D arrangements with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. In pursuing these R D arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities, we face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that also seek to license or acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed products from those entities performing the R D. 
  The following table is a selection of certain of our product candidates by phase of development in our therapeutic areas of focus as of February 13, 2017, unless otherwise indicated. Additional product candidate information can be found on our website at www.amgen.com. The website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing. The information in this section does not include other, non-registrational clinical trials that we may conduct for purposes other than for submission to regulatory agencies for their approval of a new product indication. We may conduct non-registrational clinical trials for various reasons including to evaluate real-world outcomes or to collect additional safety information with the use of our products. In addition, the table does not include the biosimilar products we are developing, which are discussed later in this section. 
  
   14 

Molecule 
      
    Disease/Condition 
      Phase 3 Programs 

Aranesp      
      
    Myelodysplastic syndromes 
      BLINCYTO      
      
    ALL 
      ENBREL 
      
    Psoriatic arthritis; 
  Rheumatoid arthritis remission 
      Erenumab 
      
    Episodic migraine 
      EVENITY      
      
    Postmenopausal osteoporosis; 
  Male osteoporosis 
      IMLYGIC      
      
    Metastatic melanoma 
      KYPROLIS      
      
    Multiple myeloma 
      Omecamtiv mecarbil 
      
    Chronic heart failure 
      Prolia      
      
    Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis 
      Repatha      
      
    Hyperlipidemia 
      Vectibix      
      
    Metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) 
      XGEVA      
      
    Delay or prevention of bone metastases in breast cancer; 
  Cancer-related bone damage in patients with multiple myeloma 
      Phase 2 Programs 

BLINCYTO      
      
    Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL); 
  R/R Ph+ and minimal residual disease of ALL 
      Erenumab 
      
    Chronic migraine 
      AMG 157 
      
    Asthma; 
  Atopic dermatitis 
      AMG 520 
      
    Alzheimer s disease 
      AMG 899 
      
    Dyslipidemia 
      Phase 1 Programs 

IMLYGIC      
      
    Various cancer types 
      KYPROLIS      
      
    Small-cell lung cancer 
      Oprozomib 
      
    Multiple myeloma 
      AMG 176 
      
    Various cancer types 
      AMG 211 
      
    Various cancer types 
      AMG 224 
      
    Multiple myeloma 
      AMG 301 
      
    Migraine 
      AMG 330 
      
    Acute myeloid leukemia 
      AMG 420 
      
    Multiple myeloma 
      AMG 557 
      
    Systemic lupus erythematosus 
      AMG 570 
      
    Systemic lupus erythematosus 
      AMG 592 
      
    Inflammatory diseases 
      AMG 820 
      
    Various cancer types 
      AMG 986 
      
    Heart failure 
   
                Phase 3 
    clinical trials investigate the safety and efficacy of product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study; typically performed with registrational intent. 
      Phase 2 
    clinical trials investigate side effect profiles and efficacy of product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study. 
      Phase 1 
    clinical trials investigate safety and proper dose ranges of product candidates in a small number of human subjects. 

15 

Phase 3 Product Candidate Program Changes 
  As of February 15, 2016, we had 15 phase 3 programs. As of February 13, 2017, we also had 15 phase 3 programs, as omecamtiv mecarbil for the treatment of chronic heart failure advanced from phase 2 trials to phase 3 trials and Parsabiv        was approved by the EC and FDA for the treatment of sHPT in patients with CKD on hemodialysis. 
  Phase 3 Product Candidate Patent Information 
  The following table describes our outstanding composition of matter patents that have issued thus far for our product candidates in phase 3 development that have yet to be approved for any indication. Patents for products already approved for one or more indications but currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials for additional indications are previously described. See Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products Patents. 
                           Molecule 
      
    Territory 
      
    General Subject Matter 
      
    Estimated Expiration* 
      Erenumab 
      
    U.S. 
      
    Polypeptides 
      
    2031 
      EVENITY      
      
    U.S. 
      
    Polypeptides 
      
    2026 

Europe 
      
    Polypeptides 
      
    2026 
      Omecamtiv mecarbil 
      
    U.S. 
      
    Compound 
      
    2027 

*  Patent expiration estimates are based on issued patents, which may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors. The patent expiration estimates do not include any term adjustments, extensions or supplemental protection certificates that may be obtained in the future and extend these dates. Corresponding patent applications are pending in other jurisdictions. Additional patents may be filed or issued and may provide additional exclusivity for the product candidate or its use. 
  Phase 3 and 2 Program Descriptions 
  The following text provides additional information about selected product candidates that have advanced into human clinical trials. 
  Aranesp       
  Aranesp        is a recombinant human protein agonist of the erythropoietin receptor. 
  In February 2016, we announced that the randomized, double-bind, placebo controlled phase 3 ARCADE trial met its primary endpoint of reducing the incidence of red blood cell transfusions in anemic patients with low and intermediate-1 risk myelodysplastic syndromes. 
  BLINCYTO       
  BLINCYTO        is an anti-CD19 x anti-CD3 (BiTE       ) bispecific antibody construct. 
  A phase 3 study in pediatric patients with high-risk first relapse B-precursor ALL is ongoing. Phase 2 studies in adult patients with R/R Ph+ and minimal residual disease of ALL are ongoing. A phase 2/3 study in patients with R/R DLBCL is ongoing. 
  In February 2017, we announced the submission of a sBLA to the FDA to include overall survival data from the Phase 3 TOWER study, supporting the conversion of BLINCYTO        s accelerated approval to full approval. The sBLA also includes new data supporting the treatment of patients with Ph+ R/R B-cell precursor ALL.       
  Denosumab 
  Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits RANKL. 
  Prolia       
  In August 2016, we announced that the phase 3 randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, active controlled study evaluating the safety and efficacy of Prolia        compared with risedronate in patients receiving glucocorticoid treatment met all primary and secondary endpoints at 12 months. 
  XGEVA       
  In October 2016, we announced that a phase 3 study evaluating XGEVA            versus Zometa        in the prevention of SRE in patients with multiple myeloma met its primary endpoint of non-inferiority in delaying the time to first on-study SRE. The secondary endpoints of superiority in delaying time to first SRE and delaying time to first-and-subsequent SRE were not met. 
  
   16 

A phase 3 study for the delay or prevention of bone metastases in patients with adjuvant breast cancer is ongoing. 
  ENBREL 
  ENBREL is a fusion protein that inhibits tumor necrosis factor. 
  A phase 3 study to evaluate ENBREL as a monotherapy for psoriatic arthritis treatment is ongoing. A phase 3 study to evaluate ENBREL as a monotherapy in maintaining remission in rheumatoid arthritis is ongoing. 
  Erenumab (formerly AMG 334) 
  Erenumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the receptor for calcitonin gene-related peptide. It is being evaluated for the prophylaxis of migraine. Erenumab is being developed jointly with Novartis. 
  In June 2016, we announced that the global phase 2 study evaluating the efficacy and safety of erenumab in chronic migraine prevention met its primary endpoint. 
  In September 2016, we announced that the phase 3 ARISE study evaluating the efficacy of erenumab in episodic migraine prevention, met its primary endpoint. Patients enrolled in ARISE study were randomized to receive either placebo, or erenumab 70 mg subcutaneously, once monthly for three months. 
  In November 2016, we announced that the global phase 3 STRIVE study evaluating the efficacy of erenumab in episodic migraine prevention, met its primary endpoint. Patients enrolled in STRIVE were randomized to receive either placebo, or one of two erenumab doses 70 mg or 140 mg subcutaneously, once monthly for six months. 
  EVENITY       
  EVENITY        is a humanized monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of sclerostin. It is being evaluated as a treatment for osteoporosis. EVENITY        is being developed in collaboration with UCB. 
  In February 2016, we and UCB announced that the phase 3 FRAME study met its co-primary endpoints. 
  In March 2016, we and UCB announced that the phase 3 BRIDGE study met its primary endpoint. 
  In September 2016, we and UCB announced that the FDA accepted for review the BLA for EVENITY        for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk for fracture. The FDA has set a PDUFA target action date of July 19, 2017. Phase 3 studies for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis are ongoing. 
  IMLYGIC       
  IMLYGIC        is an oncolytic immunotherapy derived from HSV-1. 
  A phase 1b/3 study to evaluate IMLYGIC        in combination with Merck s anti-PD-1 therapy, KEYTRUDA        (pembrolizumab), in patients with mid- to late-stage metastatic melanoma is ongoing. 
  KYPROLIS       
  KYPROLIS        is a proteasome inhibitor. 
  A phase 3 study, ARROW (RAndomized, Open-label, Phase 3 Study in Subjects with Relapsed and Refractory Multiple Myeloma Receiving Carfilzomib in Combination with Dexamethasone, Comparing Once-Weekly versus Twice-weekly Carfilzomib Dosing), with weekly dosing in relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma is ongoing. 
  Omecamtiv mecarbil 
  Omecamtiv mecarbil is a small molecule activator of cardiac myosin. It is being evaluated for the treatment of chronic heart failure. Omecamtiv mecarbil is being developed by Amgen in collaboration with Cytokinetics, Inc. and in an alliance with Servier for certain territories. 
  A phase 3 cardiovascular outcomes study for the treatment of chronic heart failure is ongoing. 
  Repatha       
  Repatha        is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits PCSK9. 
  In September 2016, we announced that the phase 3 GLAGOV study evaluating the effect of Repatha        on coronary artery disease met its primary and secondary endpoints. 
  
   17 

In February 2017, we announced that the phase 3 FOURIER study evaluating the effects of Repatha        on cardiovascular outcomes met its primary composite endpoint and key secondary composite endpoint. No new safety issues were observed. 
  In February 2017, we announced that the phase 3 EBBINGHAUS cognitive function study achieved its primary endpoint. 
  Additional phase 3 studies to evaluate Repatha        in diabetes, statin intolerant subjects, with coronary imaging, and to reduce the need for future apheresis are ongoing. 
  Vectibix       
  Vectibix        is a human monoclonal antibody antagonist of the EGFr. 
  In June 2015, we announced that results of a phase 3 study evaluating Vectibix        and best supportive care (BSC) met its primary endpoint, demonstrating a statistically significant improvement in overall survival in patients with chemorefractory wild-type KRAS (exon2) mCRC compared to those patients treated with BSC alone.  
  AMG 157 
  AMG 157 is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of TSLP. It is being evaluated as a treatment for asthma and atopic dermatitis, with phase 2 studies ongoing. AMG 157 is being jointly developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca plc (AstraZeneca). 
  AMG 520 
  AMG 520 is a small molecule inhibitor of BACE. It is being evaluated for the prevention of Alzheimer s disease, with phase 2 studies ongoing. AMG 520 is being jointly developed in collaboration with Novartis. 
  AMG 899 
  AMG 899 is a small molecule CETP inhibitor. It is being evaluated for the treatment of dyslipidemia and has completed certain phase 2 studies. Development of AMG 899 is delayed pending competitor clinical trials in the class. 
  Amgen Development of Biosimilars 
  We continue to develop and commercialize biosimilar medicines. Our biosimilar product candidates are in varying stages of commercialization and clinical development as described in the following table: 
                     Program 
    Reference product 
      
    Status 
      AMJEVITA        / ABP 501 
    adalimumab (HUMIRA       ) 
      
    Approved by FDA across all eligible indications of reference product and MAA submitted to EMA 
      ABP 215   *  
    bevacizumab (Avastin       ) 
      
    BLA and MAA submitted to FDA and EMA, respectively 
      ABP 710 
    infliximab (REMICADE       ) 
      
    Phase 3 rheumatoid arthritis study ongoing 
      ABP 798   *  
    rituximab (Rituxan        / Mabthera       ) 
      
    Phase 3 rheumatoid arthritis study ongoing 
  Phase 3 non-Hodgkin s lymphoma study ongoing 
      ABP 959 
    eculizumab (Soliris       ) 
      
    Phase 1 ongoing 
      ABP 980   *  
    trastuzumab (Herceptin       ) 
      
    Phase 3 breast cancer study completed 

* Developed in collaboration with Allergan 
   
  Business Relationships 
  From time to time, we enter into business relationships, including joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, for the R D, manufacture and/or commercialization of products and/or product candidates. In addition, we also acquire product and R D technology rights and establish R D collaborations with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. These arrangements generally provide for non-refundable, upfront license fees; development and commercial performance milestone payments; cost sharing; royalty payments and/or profit sharing. The activities under these collaboration agreements are performed with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success, and each is unique in nature. 
  
   18 

Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we generally require counterparties to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of the business relationship with us. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information or unlawfully obtain access to our information. 
  Kirin-Amgen, Inc. 
  Kirin-Amgen, Inc. (K-A) is a 50-50 joint venture with Kirin Holdings Company, Limited (Kirin). K-A develops and then out-licenses to third parties certain product rights which have been transferred to this joint venture from Amgen and Kirin. 
  K-A has given us exclusive licenses to manufacture and market: (i) G-CSF and pegfilgrastim in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, all Central American, South American, Middle Eastern and African countries and certain countries in Asia; (ii) darbepoetin alfa and romiplostim in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East; and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in the United States. We currently market pegfilgrastim, G-CSF, darbepoetin alfa, recombinant human erythropoietin and romiplostim under the brand names Neulasta       , NEUPOGEN       /GRANULOKINE       , Aranesp       , EPOGEN        and Nplate       , respectively. Under these agreements, we pay K-A royalties based on product sales. In addition, we also receive payments from K-A for milestones earned and for conducting certain R D activities on its behalf. See Part IV Note 8, Related party transactions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  K-A has also given Kirin exclusive licenses to manufacture and market: (i) G-CSF and pegfilgrastim in Japan, Taiwan and South Korea; (ii) darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and brodalumab in Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea and in certain other countries and/or regions in Asia; and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in Japan. K-A also gave Kirin and Amgen co-exclusive licenses to manufacture and market G-CSF, pegfilgrastim and recombinant human erythropoietin in China, which Amgen subsequently assigned to Kirin, and as a result, Kirin now exclusively manufactures and markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in China. Kirin markets G-CSF, pegfilgrastim, darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim, recombinant human erythropoietin, and brodalumab under the brand names GRAN       /Grasin       , Peglasta       /Neulasta       /G-Lasta       , NESP       /Aranesp       , ROMIPLATE       , ESPO       , and LUMICEF       , respectively. Under these agreements, Kirin pays K-A royalties based on product sales. In addition, Kirin also receives payments from K-A for conducting certain R D activities on its behalf. 
  K-A has also given J J exclusive licenses to manufacture and market recombinant human erythropoietin for all geographic areas of the world outside the United States, China and Japan. Under this agreement, J J pays royalties to K-A based on product sales. 
  Pfizer Inc. 
  The co-promotion term of our ENBREL collaboration agreement with Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) in the United States and Canada expired on October 31, 2013. Under this agreement, we paid Pfizer a profit share until October 31, 2013, and residual royalties from November 1, 2013 to October 31, 2016, which were significantly less than the profit share payments. In 2016, the residual royalty payments were 10% of the annual net ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada. Effective November 1, 2016, there are no further royalty payments. 
  UCB 
  We are in a collaboration with UCB for the development and commercialization of EVENITY       . In 2016, we amended the commercialization rights and responsibilities of the parties. Under the amended agreement, we have the rights to commercialize EVENITY        for all indications in the United States and Japan. UCB has the rights for Europe, China, and Brazil. The rest of the countries have been allocated to Amgen. Generally, development costs and future worldwide commercialization profits and losses related to the collaboration after accounting for expenses are shared equally. 
  Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc. 
  We are in a collaboration with Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Bayer) to jointly develop and commercialize Nexavar        (sorafenib). In 2015, we amended the terms of our collaboration agreement with Bayer, which terminated the co-promotion agreement in the United States, and transferred all U.S. operational responsibilities to Bayer, including commercial and medical affairs activities. Prior to the termination of the co-promotion agreement, we co-promoted Nexavar        with Bayer and shared equally in the profits in the United States. In lieu of this profit share, Bayer now pays us a royalty on U.S. sales of Nexavar        at a percentage rate in the high 30s. Outside of the United States, excluding Japan, Bayer manages all commercialization activities and incurs all of the sales and marketing expenditures and mutually agreed R D expenses, and we reimburse Bayer for half of those expenditures. In all countries outside of the United States, except Japan, we receive 50% of net profits on sales of Nexavar        after deducting certain Bayer-related costs. The rights to develop and market Nexavar        in Japan are reserved to Bayer. 
  
   19 

DaVita Inc. 
  In January 2017, we entered into a new six-year supply agreement with DaVita Inc. (DaVita), which supercedes the existing seven-year supply agreement that commenced in 2012. Pursuant to the new agreements, we will supply EPOGEN        and Aranesp        in amounts necessary to meet specified annual percentages of DaVita s and its affiliates  requirements for ESAs used in providing dialysis services in the United States and Puerto Rico. Such percentage varies during the term of the agreement, but each year is at least 90%. The new agreement expires in 2022. The agreement may be terminated by either party before expiration of its term in the event of certain breaches of the agreement by the other party. 
   
  Human Resources 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , Amgen had approximately 19,200 staff members. We consider our staff relations to be good. 
   
  Executive Officers of the Registrant 
  The executive officers of the Company as of February     7,     2017, are set forth below. 
  Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 54, has served as a director of the Company since October 2011 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 1, 2013. Mr. Bradway has been the Company s President since May 2010 and Chief Executive Officer since May 2012. From May 2010 to May 2012, Mr. Bradway served as the Company s President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Bradway joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Operations Strategy and served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 2007 to May 2010. Prior to joining the Company, he was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley in London where, beginning in 2001, he had responsibility for the firm s banking department and corporate finance activities in Europe. 
  Mr. Bradway has been a director of Norfolk Southern Corporation, a transportation company, since July 2011, and The Boeing Company, an aerospace company and manufacturer of commercial airplanes, defense, space and securities systems, since October 2016. He has served on the board of trustees of the University of Southern California since April 2014, and on the advisory board of the Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics at that university since 2012. 
  Mr. Jonathan P. Graham, age 56, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in July 2015. From July 2006 to May 2015, Mr. Graham was Senior Vice President and General Counsel at Danaher Corporation. From October 2004 to June 2006, Mr. Graham was Vice President, Litigation and Legal Policy at General Electric Company (GE). Prior to GE, Mr. Graham was a partner at Williams   Connolly LLP. 
  Dr. Sean E. Harper, age 54, became Executive Vice President, Research and Development in February 2012. Dr. Harper joined the Company in 2002, and has held leadership roles in early development, medical sciences and global regulatory and safety. Dr. Harper served as Senior Vice President, Global Development and Corporate Chief Medical Officer from March 2007 to February 2012. Prior to joining the Company, Dr. Harper worked for five years at Merck Research Laboratories. 
  Mr. Anthony C. Hooper, age 62, became Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations in October 2011. From March 2010 to October 2011, Mr. Hooper was Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations and President, U.S., Japan and Intercontinental of BMS. From January 2009 to March 2010, Mr. Hooper was President, Americas of BMS. From January 2004 to January 2009, Mr. Hooper was President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals Group, a division of BMS. Prior to this, Mr. Hooper held various senior leadership positions at BMS. Prior to joining BMS, Mr. Hooper was Assistant Vice President of Global Marketing for Wyeth Laboratories. 
  Ms. Lori A. Johnston, age 52, became Senior Vice President in December 2016. From October 2012 to December 2016, Ms. Johnston was Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of Celanese Corporation. From February 2006 to September 2012, Ms. Johnston served in a series of progressive leadership roles at Amgen, with her last position being Vice President, Human Resources. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Johnston held human resources and other positions at Dell Inc. 
  Mr. Brian McNamee, age 60, became Executive Vice President, Full Potential Initiatives in October 2013. Mr. McNamee joined the Company in June 2001 as Senior Vice President, Human Resources. From November 1999 to June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. McNamee served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation, a division of the GE. From July 1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held human resources positions at GE. 
  
   20 

Mr. David W. Meline, age 59, became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2014. From April 2011 to July 2014, Mr. Meline served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at 3M Company (3M). From September 2008 to March 2011, Mr. Meline served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of 3M. Prior to 2008, Mr. Meline served in a variety of senior leadership roles for General Motors Company for over 20 years, with his last position being Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, North America. Mr. Meline has been a director of ABB Ltd., a global industrial technology company based in Switzerland, since February 2016, serving as a member of the Finance, Audit and Compliance Committee. Mr. Meline was a director of TRW Automotive Holdings, Corp., a supplier of automotive systems, modules and components, from February 2014 until its acquisition by ZF Friedrichshafen AG in May 2015. 
  Ms. Cynthia M. Patton, age 55, became Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer in October 2012. Ms. Patton joined the Company in 2005. From July 2005 to September 2010, Ms. Patton was Associate General Counsel. From September 2010 to October 2012, Ms. Patton was Vice President, Law. Previously, Ms. Patton served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of SCAN Health Plan from 1999 to 2005. 
  Mr. David A. Piacquad, age 60, became Senior Vice President, Business Development in March 2014. Mr. Piacquad joined the Company in June 2010 and, until January 2014, served as Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development. From January 2014 to March 2014, Mr. Piacquad served as Vice President, Business Development. Prior to joining the Company, from December 2009 to June 2010, Mr. Piacquad was Principal of David A. Piacquad Consulting LLC. From March 2006 to December 2009, Mr. Piacquad served as Senior Vice President, Business Development and Licensing for Schering-Plough Corporation. Prior to Schering-Plough, Mr. Piacquad served in a series of leadership roles in finance and business development at J J, with his last position being Vice President, Ventures and Business Development. 
  Mr. Esteban Santos, age 49, became Executive Vice President, Operations in July 2016. Mr. Santos joined the Company in 2007 as Executive Director, Manufacturing Technologies. From October 2008 to May 2013, Mr. Santos held a number of Vice President roles at the Company in engineering, manufacturing, site operations and drug product. From May 2013 to July 2016, Mr. Santos was Senior Vice President, Manufacturing. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Santos served as Site General Manager for J J s Cordis operation in Puerto Rico. Prior to J J, Mr. Santos held several management positions in GE s industrial and transportation businesses. 
   
  Geographic Area Financial Information 
  For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Part IV Note 19, Segment information Geographic information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
   
  Investor Information 
  Financial and other information about us is available on our website at www.amgen.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, we have previously filed registration statements and other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC s public reference room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, or at the SEC s website at www.sec.gov. These website addresses are not intended to function as hyperlinks, and the information contained in our website and in the SEC s website is not intended to be a part of this filing. Information related to the operation of the SEC s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 800-SEC-0330. 
   
                 Item 1A. 
    RISK FACTORS 

This report and other documents we file with the SEC contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business, our beliefs and our management s assumptions. The statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties our business faces. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operations, liquidity and stock price. 
  
   21 

Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures may affect our profitability. 
  Sales of our products depend on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and private insurance plans. Governments and private payers continue to pursue aggressive initiatives to contain costs and manage drug utilization and are increasingly focused on the effectiveness, benefits and costs of similar treatments, which could result in lower reimbursement rates for our products or narrower populations for whom our products will be reimbursed by payers. Public scrutiny of the price of drugs and other healthcare costs is increasing and greater focus on pricing and price increases may limit our ability to set or increase the price of our products based on their value, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. 
  A substantial portion of our U.S. business relies on reimbursement from U.S. federal government healthcare programs and private insurance plans regulated by the U.S. federal government. See Item 1. Business Reimbursement. Changes to U.S. federal reimbursement policy may come through legislative actions. U.S. President Donald Trump and other U.S. lawmakers have made statements about potentially repealing and/or replacing the ACA, although specific legislation for such a repeal or replacement has not yet been introduced. While we are unable to predict what changes may ultimately be enacted, to the extent that future changes affect how our products are paid for and reimbursed by government and private payers our business could be adversely impacted. For example, discussions continue about proposals that would allow the U.S. federal government to directly negotiate drug prices with pharmaceutical manufacturers or require manufacturers to pay higher rebates in the Medicare Part D setting. Changes in U.S. federal reimbursement policy may also arise as a result of regulations or demonstration projects implemented by the Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services (CMS), the federal agency responsible for administering Medicare, Medicaid and the Health Insurance Marketplaces. CMS has substantial power to quickly implement policy changes that can significantly affect how our products are covered and reimbursed.     State government actions or ballot initiatives can also affect how our products are covered and reimbursed or create additional pressure on how our products are priced. Many states have discussed and debated and are considering new pricing legislation, including state proposals designed to require biopharmaceutical manufacturers to publicly report proprietary pricing information or to place a maximum price ceiling, or cap, on pharmaceutical products purchased by state agencies. For example, Ohio voters are expected to consider in their November 2017 election a ballot proposition that would prohibit the state from paying a greater price for drugs than the lowest price paid by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Passage of this proposition could lead to the introduction of additional ballot initiatives in other states. Legislative or regulatory changes or other government initiatives that decrease the coverage or reimbursement available for our products, require that we pay increased rebates, limit our ability to offer co-pay payment assistance to commercial patients or limit the pricing of pharmaceutical products could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 
  Payers, including healthcare insurers, PBMs and group purchasing organizations, increasingly seek price discounts or rebates in connection with the placement of our products on their formularies or those they manage. Consolidation in the health insurance industry has resulted in a few large insurers and PBMs exerting greater pressure in pricing and usage negotiations with drug manufacturers, significantly increasing such discounts and rebates and limiting patient access and usage. Three PBMs currently oversee approximately 75% of total covered lives in the United States. Payers continue to adopt benefit plan changes that shift a greater portion of prescription costs to patients, and some payers may attempt to limit the use of programs assisting commercial patients with their co-payments. Payers also control costs by imposing restrictions on access to our products, such as by requiring prior authorizations or step therapy, and may choose to exclude certain indications for which our products are approved or even choose to exclude coverage entirely. For example, since the launch of Repatha        in August 2015, the application of utilization management criteria by some payers, including PBMs, has resulted in denials of coverage for a significant number of patients for whom Repatha        has been prescribed, slowing Repatha        sales. In early February 2017, we announced that our phase 3 outcomes study evaluating the ability of Repatha        to prevent cardiovascular events met its primary composite endpoint and key secondary composite endpoint. See Item 1. Business Significant Developments. However, in the current competitive environment, the application of restrictive utilization management criteria by some payers may continue until the clinical data is reflected in approved product labeling, or even thereafter. Ultimately, further discounts, rebates, coverage or plan changes, restrictions or exclusions as described above could have a material adverse effect on sales of our affected products. 
  We also face risks relating to the reporting of pricing data that affects the reimbursement of and discounts provided for our products to U.S. government healthcare programs. Pricing data that we submit impacts the payment rates for providers, rebates we pay, and discounts we are required to provide under Medicare, Medicaid and other government drug programs. Government price reporting regulations are complex and may require a manufacturer to update certain previously submitted data. Our price reporting data calculations are reviewed monthly and quarterly, and based on such reviews we have on occasion restated previously reported pricing data to reflect changes in calculation methodology, reasonable assumptions and/or underlying data. If our submitted pricing data are incorrect, we may become subject to substantial fines and penalties or other government enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, as a result of restating previously reported price data, we also may be required to pay additional rebates and provide additional discounts. 
  
   22 

Outside the United States, we expect countries will continue to take aggressive actions to reduce their healthcare expenditures. See Item 1. Business Reimbursement. For example, international reference pricing (IRP) is widely used by a large number of countries to control costs based on an external benchmark of a product s price in other countries. IRP policies can quickly and frequently change and may not reflect differences in the burden of disease, indications, market structures, or affordability differences across countries or regions. Any deterioration in the coverage and reimbursement available for our products or in the timeliness or certainty of payment by payers to physicians and other providers could negatively impact the ability or willingness of healthcare providers to prescribe our products for their patients or could otherwise negatively affect the use of our products or the prices we receive for them. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. 
  Our products face substantial competition. 
  We operate in a highly competitive environment. See Item 1. Business Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products Competition. We expect that our products will compete with new drugs currently in development, drugs currently approved for other indications that may later be approved for the same indications as those of our products and drugs approved for other indications that are used off-label. Large pharmaceutical companies and generics manufacturers of pharmaceutical products are expanding into the biotechnology field, and some pharmaceutical companies and generics manufacturers have formed partnerships to pursue biosimilars. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical, competitive or other advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes or greater experience in particular therapeutic areas, and consolidation among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can enhance such advantages. These advantages may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or new product indications they may bring to market. As a result, our products may compete against products that have lower prices, equivalent or superior performance, better safety profiles, easier administration, earlier market availability or other competitive features. If we are unable to compete effectively, this could reduce sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 
  We currently face competition from biosimilars and expect to face increasing competition in the future. 
  We currently face competition from biosimilars in both Europe and the United States, and we expect to face increasing biosimilar competition in the next year and beyond. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could accelerate such competition, and we could face more litigation regarding the validity and/or scope of our patents. Our products may also experience greater competition from lower-cost biosimilars or generics that come to market when branded products that compete with our products lose their own patent protection. To the extent that governments adopt more permissive approval frameworks and competitors are able to obtain broader or expedited marketing approval for biosimilars, the rate of increased competition for our products could accelerate. 
  In the EU, biosimilars are evaluated and authorized pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines. In addition, in an effort to spur biosimilar utilization and/or increase potential healthcare savings, some EU countries have adopted or are attempting to adopt biosimilar uptake measures such as requiring physician prescribing quotas or promoting switching or pharmacy substitution of biosimilars for the corresponding reference products, and other countries may adopt similar measures. Some EU countries may impose automatic price reductions upon market entry of the second or third biosimilar competitor. 
  In the United States, the ACA authorized the FDA to approve biosimilars via a separate, abbreviated pathway. See Item 1. Business Government Regulation Regulation in the United States Approval of Biosimilars. The first biosimilar entrant into the U.S. market, Sandoz s Zarxio       , is a biosimilar version of NEUPOGEN       , and was launched in the United States in 2015. Since then, the FDA has approved additional biosimilars, including a biosimilar version of ENBREL. In addition, a growing number of companies have announced that they are in varying stages of development of biosimilar versions of existing biotechnology products, including biosimilars that would compete with our products. Companies pursuing development of biosimilar versions of our products have challenged and may continue to, challenge our patents well in advance of the expiration of our material patents. For information related to our biosimilars patent litigation, including our litigation regarding ENBREL, see Part IV Note 18, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See also Our intellectual property positions may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or we may fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation. The U.S. pathway includes the option for biosimilar products that meet certain criteria to be approved as interchangeable with their reference products. Some companies currently developing biosimilars may seek to register their products as interchangeable biologics, which could make it easier for pharmacists to substitute those biosimilars for our products or could encourage prescribers who are inclined to select the interchangeable biosimilar over our innovative products. In addition, critics of the 12-year exclusivity period in the biosimilar pathway law will likely continue to seek to shorten the data exclusivity period and/or to encourage the FDA to interpret narrowly the law s provisions regarding which new products receive data exclusivity, which could expose us to biosimilar competition at an earlier time. While we are unable to predict the precise impact of biosimilars on our products, we are currently facing and expect to face greater competition in the United States and Europe in the next year and beyond as a result of biosimilars and downward pressure on our product prices and sales. This biosimilar competition has had and could increasingly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 
  
   23 

Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval. 
  Our business is subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal government authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including the EMA. We are required in the United States and in foreign countries to obtain approval from regulatory authorities before we manufacture, market and sell our products. Once our products are approved, the FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial authority to require additional testing and reporting, perform inspections, change product labeling or mandate withdrawals of our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative and/or judicially imposed sanctions or monetary penalties as well as reputational and other harms. The sanctions could include the FDA s or foreign regulatory authorities  refusals to approve pending applications, delays in obtaining or withdrawals of approvals, delays or suspensions of clinical trials, warning letters, product recalls or seizures, total or partial suspensions of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecutions. 
  Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval have been, and will continue to be, increasingly difficult, time-consuming and costly. Legislative bodies or regulatory agencies could enact new laws or regulations, change existing laws or regulations, or change their interpretations of laws or regulations at any time, which could affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products or product candidates. The rate and degree of change in existing laws and regulations and regulatory expectations have accelerated in established markets, and regulatory expectations continue to evolve in emerging markets.     We are unable to predict whether and when any further changes to laws or regulatory policies affecting our business could occur, such as changes to regulations governing manufacturer communications concerning drug products and drug product candidates, and whether such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 
  Regulatory authorities may also question the sufficiency for approval of the endpoints we select for our clinical trials. A number of our products and product candidates have been evaluated in clinical trials using surrogate endpoints that measure an effect that is known to correlate with an ultimate clinical endpoint. For example, a therapeutic oncology product candidate may be evaluated for its ability to extend the length of time during and after the treatment that a patient lives without the disease worsening PFS. Demonstrating that the product candidate produces a statistically significant improvement in PFS does not necessarily mean that the product candidate will show a statistically significant improvement in overall survival or the time that the patients remain alive. In the cardiovascular setting, a heart disease therapeutic candidate may be evaluated for its ability to reduce LDL-C levels, as elevated LDL-C level has been a surrogate endpoint for cardiovascular events such as death, heart attack and stroke. The use of surrogate endpoints such as PFS and LDL-C reduction, in the absence of other measures of clinical benefit, may not be sufficient for broad usage or approval even when such results are statistically significant. Regulatory authorities could also add new requirements, such as the completion of enrollment in a confirmatory study or the completion of an outcomes study or a meaningful portion of an outcomes study, as conditions for obtaining approval or obtaining an indication. For example, our initial FDA application for Repatha        sought approval for a broader patient population based on data demonstrating that Repatha        reduced LDL-C levels. However, the FDA ultimately approved Repatha        only for a subset of those patients, citing among other things the absence of positive outcomes data showing that Repatha        prevents cardiovascular events. We subsequently announced that our phase 3 outcomes study evaluating the ability of Repatha        to prevent cardiovascular events met its primary composite endpoint and key secondary composite endpoint. See Item 1. Business Significant Developments. However, we cannot predict the degree to which the results of this study will be incorporated into the Repatha        label by regulators. There may also be situations in which demonstrating the efficacy and safety of a product candidate may not be sufficient to gain regulatory approval unless superiority to comparative products can be shown. The imposition of additional requirements or our inability to meet them in a timely fashion or at all may delay our clinical development and regulatory filing efforts, delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for new product candidates or new indications for existing products, or prevent us from maintaining our current labels. 
  Some of our products have been approved by U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities on a conditional basis with full approval conditioned upon fulfilling the requirements of regulators. For example, in December 2014, we received accelerated approval for BLINCYTO        for the treatment of patients with Ph- relapsed or refractory B-cell precursor ALL in the United States, with continued approval contingent upon clinical benefit in subsequent trials. BLINCYTO        also received conditional marketing authorization for the treatment of patients with Ph- relapsed or refractory B-cell precursor ALL from the EC in November 2015. Regulatory authorities are placing greater focus on monitoring products originally approved on an accelerated or conditional basis and on whether the sponsors of such products have met the conditions of the accelerated or conditional approvals. If we are unable to fulfill the regulators  requirements that were conditions of a product s accelerated or conditional approval and/or if regulators re-evaluate the data or risk-benefit profile of our product, the conditional approval may not result in full approval or may be revoked or not renewed. Alternatively, we may be required to change the product s labeled indications or even withdraw the product from the market. 
  Safety problems or signals can arise as our products and product candidates are evaluated in clinical trials, including investigator sponsored studies, or as our marketed products are used in clinical practice. We are required to continuously collect and assess adverse events reported to us and to communicate to regulatory agencies these adverse events and safety signals regarding  
  
   24 

our products. Regulatory agencies periodically perform inspections of our pharmacovigilance processes, including our adverse event reporting. In 2012, pharmacovigilance legislation became effective in the EU that enhanced the authority of European regulators to require companies to conduct additional post-approval clinical efficacy and safety studies and increased the requirements on sponsor companies to analyze and evaluate the risk-benefit profiles of their products.     Similarly, for our products with approved REMS (see Item 1. Business Government Regulation Post-Approval Phase) we are required to submit periodic assessment reports to the FDA to demonstrate that the goals of the REMS are being met. REMS and other risk management programs are designed to ensure that a drug s benefits outweigh the risks, and vary in the elements they contain. For example, our ESA REMS requires applicable healthcare providers and institutions to enroll in the program, receive education about the product and the REMS and document and report certain information to us over time. We are responsible for tracking and documenting certain elements of healthcare provider and institution compliance with the ESA REMS, and we use third-party service providers to assist in the administration of certain portions of our REMS. If the FDA is not satisfied with the results of the periodic assessment reports we submit for any of our REMS, the FDA may also modify our REMS or take other regulatory actions, such as implementing revised or restrictive labeling. If regulatory agencies determine that we or other parties (including our clinical trial investigators, those operating our patient support programs or licensees of our products) have not complied with the applicable reporting or other pharmacovigilance requirements, we may become subject to additional inspections, warning letters or other enforcement actions, including fines, marketing authorization withdrawal and other penalties. Our product candidates and marketed products can also be affected by safety problems or signals occurring with respect to products that are similar to ours and that implicate an entire class of products. Further, as a result of clinical trials, including sub-analyses or meta-analyses of earlier clinical trials (a meta-analysis involves the use of various statistical methods to combine results from previous separate but related studies) performed by us or others, concerns may arise about the sufficiency of the data or studies underlying a product s approved label. Such actual or perceived safety problems or concerns can lead to: 
             
    revised or restrictive labeling for our products, or the potential for restrictive labeling that may result in our decision not to commercialize a product candidate; 
                
    requirement of risk management activities or other regulatory agency compliance actions related to the promotion and sale of our products; 
        mandated post-marketing commitments or pharmacovigilance programs for our approved products; 
     product recalls of our approved products; 
             
    revocation of approval for our products from the market completely, or within particular therapeutic areas or patient types; 
        increased timelines or delays in being approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; and/or 
     fewer treatments or product candidates being approved by regulatory bodies. 
  For example, since 2006, when adverse safety results involving ESAs were observed, ESAs continue to be the subject of ongoing review and scrutiny. Reviews by regulatory authorities of the risk-benefit profile of ESAs have resulted in, and may continue to result in, changes to ESA labeling, our ESA REMS and usage in both the oncology and nephrology clinical settings. 
  In addition to our innovative products, we are working to develop and commercialize biosimilar versions of a number of products currently manufactured, marketed and sold by other pharmaceutical companies. In some markets, there is not yet a legislative or regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilars. In the United States, the ACA provided for such a pathway; while the FDA continues to implement it, questions remain as to the evidence needed to demonstrate biosimilarity or interchangeability for specific products and what information can be included in biosimilar labeling. See We currently face competition from biosimilars and expect to face increasing competition in the future. Delays or uncertainties in the development of such pathways could result in delays or difficulties in getting our biosimilar products approved by regulatory authorities, subject us to unanticipated development costs or otherwise reduce the value of the investments we have made in the biosimilars area. Further, we cannot predict whether any repeal or reform of the ACA would affect the biosimilar pathway or have a material adverse effect on our development of biosimilars. In addition, if we are unable to bring our biosimilar products to market on a timely basis, and secure  first-to-market  positions, our future biosimilar sales and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 
  We may not be able to develop commercial products despite significant investments in R D. 
  Amgen invests heavily in R D. Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few R D projects produce commercial products. Product candidates, including biosimilar product candidates, or new indications  
  
   25 

for existing products (collectively, product candidates) that appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: 
             
    the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results, for reasons that could include changes in the standard of care of medicine; 
                
    the product candidate was not effective or not more effective than currently available therapies in treating a specified condition or illness; 
        the product candidate was not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics; 
     the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or animals; 
     the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA or EMA, did not approve the product candidate for an intended use; 
     the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize; 
             
    the biosimilar product candidate failed to demonstrate the requisite biosimilarity to the applicable reference product, or was otherwise determined by a regulatory authority to not meet applicable standards for approval; 
                
    other parties had or may have had proprietary rights relating to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and did not let us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all; 
                
    we and certain of our licensees, partners or independent investigators may have failed to effectively conduct clinical development or clinical manufacturing activities; and 
        the pathway to regulatory approval or reimbursement for product candidates was uncertain or not well-defined. 
  A number of our product candidates have failed or been discontinued at various stages in the product development process. For example, in May 2015, we terminated our participation in the co-development and commercialization of brodalumab with AstraZeneca. The decision was based on events of suicidal ideation and behavior in the brodalumab program, which we believed likely would necessitate restrictive labeling that would limit the appropriate patient population. Inability to bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product for any of the reasons discussed could potentially have a negative impact on our product sales and earnings and could result in a significant impairment of in-process research and development (IPR D) or other intangible assets. 
  We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications. 
  Before we sell any products, we must conduct clinical trials to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. The results of those clinical trials are used as the basis to obtain approval from regulatory authorities such as the FDA and EMA. See Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval. We are required to conduct clinical trials using an appropriate number of trial sites and patients to support the product label claims. The length of time, number of trial sites and number of patients required for clinical trials vary substantially and therefore, we may spend several years and incur substantial expense in completing certain clinical trials. In addition, we may have difficulty finding a sufficient number of clinical trial sites and patients to participate in our clinical trials, particularly if competitors are conducting clinical trials in similar patient populations. Patients may withdraw from clinical trials at any time, and privacy laws and/or other restrictions in certain countries may restrict the ability of clinical trial investigators to conduct further follow-up on such patients, which may adversely affect the interpretation of study results. Delays and complications in planned clinical trials can result in increased development costs, associated delays in regulatory approvals and in product candidates reaching the market and revisions to existing product labels. 
  Further, to increase the number of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials, we have and will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a number of locations where our experience conducting clinical trials is limited, including Russia, India, China, South Korea, the Philippines, Singapore and some Central and South American countries, either through utilization of third-party contract clinical trial providers entirely or in combination with local staff. Conducting clinical trials in locations where we have limited experience requires substantial time and resources to understand the unique regulatory environments of individual countries. Further, we must ensure the timely production, distribution and delivery of the clinical supply of our product candidates to numerous and varied clinical trial sites. If we fail to adequately manage the design, execution and diverse regulatory aspects of our large and complex clinical trials or to manage the production or distribution of our clinical supply, corresponding regulatory approvals may be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our product candidates or could lose our ability to market existing products in certain therapeutic areas or altogether. If we are unable to market and sell our products or product candidates or to obtain approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 
  
   26 

We rely on independent third-party clinical investigators to recruit patients and conduct clinical trials on our behalf in accordance with applicable study protocols, laws and regulations. Further, we rely on unaffiliated third-party vendors to perform certain aspects of our clinical trial operations. We also may acquire companies that have ongoing clinical trials. These trials may not have been conducted to the same standards as ours; however, once an acquisition has been completed we assume responsibility for the conduct of these trials, including any potential risks and liabilities associated with the past and prospective conduct of those trials. If regulatory authorities determine that we or others, including our licensees or the independent investigators selected by us or by a company we have acquired, have not complied with regulations applicable to the clinical trials, those authorities may refuse or reject some or all of the clinical trial data or take other actions that could negatively impact our ability to obtain or maintain marketing approval of the product or indication. If we were unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 
  In addition, some of our clinical trials involve drugs manufactured and marketed by other pharmaceutical companies. These drugs may be administered in clinical trials in combination with one of our products or product candidates or in a head-to-head study comparing the products  or product candidates  relative efficacy and safety. In the event that any of these vendors or pharmaceutical companies have unforeseen issues that negatively impact the quality of their work or create a shortage of supply or if we are otherwise unable to obtain an adequate supply of these other drugs, our ability to complete our applicable clinical trials and/or evaluate clinical results may also be negatively impacted. As a result, this could adversely affect our ability to timely file for, gain or maintain regulatory approvals worldwide. 
  Clinical trials must be designed based on the current standard of medical care. However, in certain diseases, such as cancer, the standard of care is evolving rapidly. In such diseases, the duration of time needed to complete certain clinical trials may result in the design of such clinical trials being based on standards of medical care that are no longer the current standards by the time such trials are completed, limiting the utility and application of such trials. We may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and therefore may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for new product candidates or new indications for existing products and/or maintain our current product labels. Participants in clinical trials of our products and product candidates may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects that could, among other factors, delay or terminate clinical trial programs and/or require additional or longer trials to gain approval. 
  Even after a product is on the market, safety concerns may require additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of a risk management plan for our product or for approval of a new indication. For example, in connection with the June 2011 ESA label changes, we agreed to conduct additional clinical trials examining the use of ESAs in CKD. Additional clinical trials we initiate, including those required by the FDA, could result in substantial additional expense and the outcomes could result in further label restrictions or the loss of regulatory approval for an approved indication, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, any negative results from such trials could materially affect the extent of approvals, the use, reimbursement and sales of our products, our business and results of operations. 
  Some of our products are used with drug delivery or companion diagnostic devices that have their own regulatory, manufacturing and other risks. 
  Many of our products and product candidates may be used in combination with a drug delivery device, such as an injector or other delivery system. In addition, Vectibix        is used in combination with a test kit (which is a companion diagnostic device), and some of our product candidates may also be used in combination with a companion diagnostic device. Our product candidates or expanded indications of our products used with such devices may not be approved or may be substantially delayed in receiving regulatory approval if such devices do not also gain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance. When approval of the product and device is sought under a single marketing drug application, the increased complexity of the review process may delay receipt of regulatory approval. In addition, some of these devices may be provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party companies. We are dependent on the sustained cooperation and effort of those third-party companies both to supply the devices and, in some cases, to conduct the studies required for approval or clearance by the applicable regulatory agencies. We are also dependent on those third-party companies continuing to meet applicable regulatory or other requirements. Failure to successfully develop or supply the devices, delays in or failures of the Amgen or third-party studies, or failure of us or the third-party companies to obtain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance of the devices could result in increased development costs; delays in, or failure to obtain, regulatory approval; and/or associated delays in a product candidate reaching the market or in the addition of new indications for existing products. Actual or perceived safety problems or concerns with a device used with our product can lead to regulatory actions and impacts to our products. See     Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval  .   Loss of regulatory approval or clearance of a device that is used with our product may also result in the removal of our product from the market. Further, failure to successfully develop, supply, or gain or maintain approval for these devices could adversely affect sales of the related, approved products. 
  
   27 

Our intellectual property positions may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or we may fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation. 
  Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. Challenges to patents may come from potential competitors or from parties other than those who seek to market a potentially-infringing product. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. For certain of our product candidates, there are third parties who have patents or pending patent applications that they may claim necessitate payment of a royalty or prevent us from commercializing these product candidates in certain territories. Patent disputes are frequent, costly and can preclude, delay or increase the cost of commercialization of products. We have been in the past, and are currently and may be in the future, involved in patent litigation. These matters have included and may in the future include litigation with manufacturers of products that purport to be biosimilars of certain of our products for patent infringement and for failure to comply with certain provisions of the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, including the requirement to provide 180 days  notice in advance of commercial marketing. A determination made by a court, agency or tribunal concerning infringement, validity, enforceability, injunctive or economic remedy, or the right to patent protection, for example, are typically subject to appellate or administrative review. Upon review, such initial determinations may be afforded little or no deference by the reviewing tribunal and may be affirmed, reversed, or made the subject of reconsideration through further proceedings. A patent dispute or litigation may not discourage a potential violator from bringing the allegedly-infringing product to market prior to a final resolution of the dispute or litigation. The period from inception until resolution of a patent dispute or litigation is subject to the availability and schedule of the court, agency or tribunal before which the dispute or litigation is pending. We may be subject to competition during this period and may not be able to fully recover from the losses, damages, and harms we incur from infringement by the competitor product even if we prevail. Moreover, if we lose or settle current or future litigations at certain stages or entirely, we could be subject to competition and/or significant liabilities, be required to enter into third-party licenses for the infringed product or technology or be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. In addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 
  Further, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, our products approved by the FDA under the FDCA may be the subject of patent litigation with generics competitors before expiry of the five-year period of data exclusivity provided for under the Hatch-Waxman Act and prior to the expiration of the patents listed for the product. Likewise, our innovative biologic products may be the subject of patent litigation prior to the expiration of our patents and, with respect to competitors seeking approval as a biosimilar or interchangeable version of our products, prior to the 12-year exclusivity period provided under the ACA. In addition, we may face additional patent litigation involving claims that the biosimilar product candidates we are working to develop infringe the patents of other companies that manufacture, market or sell the applicable reference products. While we may attempt to challenge such patents, our efforts may be unsuccessful. For information related to our biosimilars patent litigation, see Part IV Note 18, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Certain of the existing patents on our products have recently expired. See Item 1. Business Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products Patents. As our patents expire, competitors are able to legally produce and market similar products or technologies, including biosimilars, which may have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. In addition, competitors may be able to invalidate, design around or otherwise circumvent our patents and sell competing products. 
  Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. 
  Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. However, professional societies, practice management groups, insurance carriers, physicians groups, private health and science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases also publish guidelines and recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators and payers, as well as patient communities. Recommendations by government agencies or other groups and organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies, and a growing number of organizations are providing assessments of the value and pricing of pharmaceutical products. These assessments may come from private organizations, such as the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review, which publish their findings and offer recommendations relating to the products  reimbursement by government and private payers. In addition, government HTA organizations, such as the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence in the United Kingdom and the Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health, make reimbursement recommendations to payers in their jurisdictions based on the clinical effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and service impact of new, emerging and existing medicines and treatments. Such HTA organizations may recommend reimbursement for our product for a narrower indication than was approved by applicable regulatory agencies, or may recommend against reimbursement entirely. Such recommendations or guidelines may affect our reputation, and any  
  
   28 

recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use, dosage or reimbursement of our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. In addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use and dosage of our products could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 
  The adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. 
  We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we do business. As a result, our provision for income taxes is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places we operate. Significant judgment is required for determining our provision for income tax. Our tax returns are routinely examined by tax authorities in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we do business, and a number of audits are currently underway. Tax authorities are becoming more aggressive in their audits and are particularly focused on the allocations of income and expense among tax jurisdictions. We believe our accrual for income tax liabilities is appropriate based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of the provision for income taxes, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. See Part IV Note 5, Income Taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our provision for income taxes and results of operations in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of income and expenses in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in applicable tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations thereof. President Trump has indicated that U.S. corporate tax reform is a high priority for his Administration, and the U.S. Congress is expected to propose sweeping changes to the U.S. tax system including changes to corporate tax rates, the taxation of income earned outside the U.S. (including the taxation of previously unrepatriated foreign earnings), as well as a potential destination-based tax system. A change to the U.S. tax system, a change to the tax system in a jurisdiction where we have significant operations, such as the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, or a change in tax law in other jurisdictions where we do business, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and on the results of our operations. 
  We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components. 
  We rely on unaffiliated third-party suppliers for certain raw materials, medical devices and components necessary for the manufacturing of our commercial and clinical products. Certain of those raw materials, medical devices and components are proprietary products of those unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in our drug applications with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source or sources and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier. For example, Insulet Corporation is our single source of the on-body injector for our Neulasta        Onpro            kit. Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from other countries and/or derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum and human serum albumin. 
  Among the reasons we may be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices and components include: 
     regulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or others; 
     adverse financial or other strategic developments at or affecting the supplier, including bankruptcy; 
     unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical devices or components; 
             
    failure to comply with our quality standards which results in quality and product failures, product contamination and/or recall; 
                
    a material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restrictions on the use of certain biologically derived substances or other raw materials; 
                
    discovery of previously unknown or undetected imperfections in raw materials, medical devices or components; and 
        labor disputes or shortages, including from the effects of health emergencies and natural disasters. 
  These events could negatively impact our ability to satisfy demand for our products or conduct clinical trials, which could have a material adverse effect on our product use and sales and our business and results of operations. For example, in prior years we have experienced shortages in certain components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our products in our Puerto Rico facility. Further quality issues that result in unexpected additional demand for certain components may lead to shortages of required raw materials or components (such as we have experienced with EPOGEN        glass vials). We may experience or continue to experience these or other shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments, supply constraints, clinical trial delays, contract disputes and/or stock-outs of our products. 
  
   29 

Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. 
  Manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. We currently are involved in the manufacture of many of our products and plan to manufacture many of our product candidates. In addition, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to produce, or assist in the production of, a number of our products, and we currently use contract manufacturers to produce, or assist in the production of, a number of our late-stage product candidates and drug delivery devices. See Item 1. Business Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials Manufacturing. Our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our products and product candidates is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities and those of our third-party contract manufacturers, which may be impacted by: 
     capacity of manufacturing facilities; 
     contamination by microorganisms or viruses, or foreign particles from the manufacturing process; 
     natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanoes or fires; 
     labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of health emergencies or natural disasters; 
     compliance with regulatory requirements; 
     changes in forecasts of future demand; 
     timing and actual number of production runs and production success rates and yields; 
     updates of manufacturing specifications; 
     contractual disputes with our suppliers and contract manufacturers; 
     timing and outcome of product quality testing; 
     power failures and/or other utility failures; and/or 
     breakdown, failure, substandard performance or improper installation or operation of equipment. 
  If the efficient manufacture and supply of our products or product candidates is interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments, delays in our clinical trials, supply constraints, stock-outs, adverse event trends, contract disputes and/or recalls of our products. From time to time we have initiated voluntary recalls of certain lots of our products. For example, in July 2014, we initiated a voluntary recall of an Aranesp        lot distributed in the EU after particles were detected in a quality control sample following distribution of that lot. If we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose patients and physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. 
  Our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party contract manufacturers must undergo regulatory approval processes and are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. It can take longer than five years to build, validate and license another manufacturing plant and it can take longer than three years to qualify and license a new contract manufacturer. We have initiated the drug substance process qualification campaign to facilitate licensure at our biologics manufacturing facility in Singapore. This Singapore facility will utilize a novel manufacturing technology that has not been previously approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. In addition, we are in the process of commercially validating and licensing a new facility at the site in Singapore to enable the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient for KYPROLIS       . If we are unable to obtain needed licenses for either of these facilities on a timely basis, it could adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned risk mitigation and cost reductions which, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. 
  If regulatory authorities determine that we or our third-party contract manufacturers or certain of our third-party service providers have violated regulations or if authorities restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or selling our marketed products until we or the affected third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers comply, or indefinitely. Such issues may also delay the approval of product candidates we have submitted for regulatory review, even if such product candidates are not directly related to the products, devices or processes at issue with regulators. Because our third-party contract manufacturers and certain of our third-party service providers are subject to the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, alternative qualified third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers may not be available on a timely basis or at all. If we or our third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. Additionally, we distribute a substantial volume of our commercial products through our primary distribution centers in Louisville, Kentucky for the United States and in Breda, Netherlands for Europe and much of the rest of the world. We also conduct all the labeling and packaging of our products distributed in Europe and much of the rest of the world in Breda. Our  
  
   30 

ability to timely supply products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operations of our distribution and logistics centers, our third-party logistics providers and our labeling and packaging facility in Breda. Further, we rely on commercial transportation, including air freight, for the distribution of our products to our customers, which may be negatively impacted by natural disasters or security threats. 
  We perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities at our facility in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and substantially all of our clinical manufacturing activities at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California; if significant disruptions or production failures occur at the Puerto Rico facility, we may not be able to supply these products or, at the Thousand Oaks facility, we may not be able to continue our clinical trials. 
  We currently perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities at our facility in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and substantially all of our clinical manufacturing activities at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California. The global supply of our products and product candidates for commercial sales and for use in our clinical trials is significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. See Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. 
  The operation of our manufacturing facility in Puerto Rico is also subject to local economic challenges. Since June 2015, when the Governor of Puerto Rico announced that the government (including certain government entities) was unable to pay its roughly $72 billion in debt, the government s liquidity position has continued to deteriorate and public reports indicate that the Puerto Rico government is not making certain payments with respect to its obligations. On June 30, 2016, President Obama signed into law the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA) to provide a mechanism for Puerto Rico to restructure its debt, achieve fiscal responsibility, and gain access to capital markets. PROMESA established a federal Financial Oversight and Management Board (Oversight Board) to provide fiscal oversight through the development and approval of fiscal plans and budgets for Puerto Rico and to assist in the debt restructuring. The establishment of the Oversight Board initially provided for an automatic stay of creditor actions against the Puerto Rico government until February 15, 2017, and recently extended the automatic stay until May 1, 2017. The Puerto Rico government is expected to submit a fiscal plan to the Oversight Board by February 28, 2017. Additionally, on January 29, 2017, the Puerto Rico government signed into law the Puerto Rico Fiscal Emergency and Fiscal Responsibility Act (the Act), which is intended to facilitate and encourage a voluntary negotiation process under PROMESA between the Puerto Rico government and its creditors. The Act declares a state of financial emergency in Puerto Rico until May 1, 2017, and authorizes the Governor to designate certain services as essential services, and other services as non-essential in order to prioritize the use of available resources to satisfy Puerto Rico s obligations. While PROMESA and the actions above continue to be important factors in moving Puerto Rico toward economic stability, there is still a risk that Puerto Rico s economic situation could impact the territorial government s provision of utilities or other services in Puerto Rico that we use in the operation of our business, create the potential for increased taxes or fees to operate in Puerto Rico, result in a migration of workers from Puerto Rico to the mainland United States, and/or make it more expensive or difficult for us to operate in Puerto Rico. 
  Concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and free-standing dialysis clinic businesses and consolidation of private payers may negatively impact our business. 
  Certain of our distributors, customers and payers have substantial purchasing leverage, due to the volume of our products they purchase or the number of patient lives for which they provide coverage. The substantial majority of our U.S. product sales is made to three pharmaceutical product wholesaler distributors: AmerisourceBergen Corporation, McKesson Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc. These distributors, in turn, sell our products to their customers, which include physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. One of our products, EPOGEN       , is sold primarily to free-standing dialysis clinics. Two organizations, DaVita and Fresenius Medical Care North America, own or manage a large number of the outpatient dialysis facilities located in the United States and account for approximately 75% of all EPOGEN        sales. Similarly, as discussed above, there has been significant consolidation in the health insurance industry, including that three PBMs now oversee approximately 75% of total covered lives in the United States. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures may affect our profitability. The concentration of purchasing and negotiating power by these entities may put pressure on our pricing due to their ability to extract price discounts on our products, fees for other services or rebates, negatively impacting our bargaining position, sales and/or profit margins. In addition, decisions by these entities to purchase or cover less or none of our products in favor of competitive products could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations due to their purchasing volume. 
  We may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. 
  The capital and credit markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption which may lead to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. We expect to access the capital markets to supplement our existing funds and cash generated from operations in satisfying our needs for working capital; capital expenditure and debt service requirements; our plans to pay dividends and repurchase stock; and other business initiatives we plan to strategically pursue, including acquisitions and licensing  
  
   31 

activities. In the event of adverse capital and credit market conditions, we may be unable to obtain capital market financing on similar favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit-rating agencies could adversely affect our ability to obtain capital market financing and the cost of such financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. 
  Our efforts to acquire other companies or products and to integrate their operations may not be successful, and may result in unanticipated costs, delays or failures to realize the benefits of the transactions. 
  We have an ongoing process of evaluating potential merger, acquisition, partnering and in-license opportunities that we expect will contribute to our future growth and expand our geographic footprint, product offerings and/or our R D pipeline. Acquisitions may result in unanticipated costs, delays or other operational or financial problems related to integrating the acquired company and business with our company, which may result in the diversion of our management s attention from other business issues and opportunities. Failures or difficulties in integrating or retaining new personnel or in integrating the operations of the businesses we acquire (including their technology, compliance programs, distribution and general business operations and procedures), while preserving important R D, distribution, marketing, promotion and other relationships, may affect our ability to grow and may result in our incurring asset impairment or restructuring charges. For example, on October 1, 2013, we acquired Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Onyx), a biopharmaceutical company with several currently marketed products as well as pipeline candidates progressing through the development process, and failures or difficulties in the integration of Onyx could result in a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 
  Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business in emerging markets. 
  As we continue our expansion efforts in emerging markets around the world, through acquisitions and licensing transactions as well as through the development and introduction of our products in new markets, we face numerous risks to our business. There is no guarantee that our efforts and strategies to expand sales in emerging markets will succeed. Emerging market countries may be especially vulnerable to periods of global political, legal, regulatory and financial instability, including sovereign debt issues and/or the imposition of international sanctions in response to certain state actions. As we expand internationally, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a program in place that is designed to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through foreign currency hedging arrangements, our hedging efforts do not completely offset the effect of these fluctuations on our revenues and earnings. We may also be required to increase our reliance on third-party agents and unfamiliar operations and arrangements previously utilized by companies we partner with or acquire in emerging markets. See We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications. Our international operations and business may also be subject to less protective intellectual property or other applicable laws, diverse data privacy and protection requirements, changing tax laws and tariffs, far-reaching anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations and/or evolving legal and regulatory environments. These legal and operational challenges along with government controls, the challenges of attracting and retaining qualified personnel and obtaining and/or maintaining necessary regulatory or pricing approvals of our products may result in a material adverse impact on our international product sales, business and results of operations. 
  Our business may be affected by litigation and government investigations. 
  We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings. See Part IV Note 18, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Civil and criminal litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in costly verdicts, fines and penalties, exclusion from federal healthcare programs and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. Defense of litigation claims can be expensive, time-consuming and distracting, and it is possible that we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or change the way we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management s attention and could adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. We and certain of our subsidiaries have previously been named as defendants in product liability actions for certain of our products. 
  We are also involved in government investigations that arise in the ordinary course of our business. In recent years, there has been a trend of increasing government investigations and litigations against companies operating in our industry, both in the United States and around the world. Our business activities outside of the United States are subject to the FCPA and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the UK Bribery Act. As we announced on December 19, 2012, we finalized a settlement agreement with the U.S. government and various other parties to settle certain allegations regarding our sales and marketing practices. In connection with that settlement, we are now operating under a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the OIG of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that requires us to maintain our corporate compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations until December 2017. The CIA also provides for an independent third-party review organization to assess and report on our compliance  
  
   32 

program. While we expect to fully comply with all of our obligations under the CIA, failure to do so could result in substantial penalties and our being excluded from government healthcare programs. We may also be subject to actions by government entities, including those not participating in the settlement, and may in the future become subject to claims by other parties, in each case with respect to the alleged conduct that is the subject of the settlement. We may see new government investigations of or actions against us citing novel theories of recovery. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 
  We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems, infrastructure, network connected control systems and data security. 
  We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems, infrastructure, network connected control systems and data security. The breadth, complexity and business process integration of our computer systems and the potential value of our data make these systems targets of service interruption, destruction, malicious intrusion and attack. Likewise, data privacy or security breaches by employees, contractors or others may pose risks that sensitive data including intellectual property, trade secrets or personal information belonging us, our patients, customers and/or other business partners may be exposed to unauthorized persons or the public. As a global biotechnology company, our systems are subject to frequent cyber-attacks. Moreover, these attacks are growing in frequency, sophistication and intensity, and are becoming increasingly difficult to detect. As the cyber-threat landscape evolves, such attacks are also increasingly difficult to detect when carried out by motivated, well-resourced, skilled and persistent actors including nation states and organized crime groups. Such attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware, key loggers, a denial-of-service, a delivery of malware through malicious websites, the use of social engineering and/or other means to affect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information technology systems, processes, infrastructure and data. Key business partners, third-party service and product providers and any companies we may acquire face similar risks and any security breaches of their systems could adversely affect our security and resiliency posture. Although in the past we have experienced cyber-attacks and intrusions into our computer systems, we do not believe such attacks have had a material adverse effect on our operations. While we continue to invest in the protection and monitoring of our critical or sensitive data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or detect all breaches to our systems that could adversely affect our business and operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive information, which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us. 
  Global economic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business. 
  Our operations and performance have been, and may continue to be, affected by global economic conditions. Financial pressures may cause government or other third-party payers to more aggressively seek cost containment measures. See Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures may affect our profitability. As a result of global economic conditions, some third-party payers may delay or be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. Job losses or other economic hardships may also affect patients  ability to afford health care as a result of increased co-pay or deductible obligations, greater cost sensitivity to existing co-pay or deductible obligations, lost healthcare insurance coverage or for other reasons. We believe such conditions have led and could continue to lead to reduced demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Economic conditions may also adversely affect the ability of our distributors, customers and suppliers to obtain the liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials and to perform their obligations under agreements with us, which could disrupt our operations. Although we monitor our distributors , customers  and suppliers  financial condition and their liquidity to mitigate our business risks, some of our distributors, customers and suppliers may become insolvent, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. 
  We maintain a significant portfolio of investments disclosed as cash equivalents and marketable securities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The value of our investments may be adversely affected by interest rate fluctuations, downgrades in credit ratings, illiquidity in the capital markets and other factors that may result in other-than-temporary declines in the value of our investments. Any of those events could cause us to record impairment charges with respect to our investment portfolio or to realize losses on sales of investments. 
  Our stock price is volatile. 
  Our stock price, like that of our peers in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, is volatile. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. Events such as a delay in product development, changes to our expectations or strategy or even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a period to be below our expectations or projections. As a result, our revenues and operating results and, in turn, our stock price may be subject to significant fluctuations. Announcements or discussions of possible restrictive actions by government or private payers that would impact our business or industry if ultimately enacted or adopted may also cause our stock price to fluctuate, whether or not such restrictive actions ever actually occur. Similarly, actual or perceived safety issues with our products or similar products or unexpected clinical trial results can have an immediate and rapid impact on our stock price, whether or not our operating results are materially impacted. 
  
   33 

Item 1B. 
    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None. 
   
                 Item 2. 
    PROPERTIES 

As of   December 31, 2016  , we owned or leased approximately 190 properties. The locations and primary functions of significant properties are summarized in the following tables: 
  
  Excluded from the tables above are undeveloped land and leased properties that have been abandoned and certain buildings that we still own but are no longer used in our business. There are no material encumbrances on our owned properties. 
  We believe that our facilities are suitable for their intended use and, in conjunction with our third-party contracting manufacturing agreements, provide adequate capacity and are sufficient to meet our expected needs. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion on the factors that could adversely impact our manufacturing operations and the global supply of our products. 
  See Item 1. Business Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials. 
  
   34 

Item 3. 
    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

Certain of the legal proceedings in which we are involved are discussed in Part IV Note 18, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements and are hereby incorporated by reference. 
   
                 Item 4. 
    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 

Not applicable. 
  
   35 

PART II 
   
                 Item 5. 
    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

Common stock 
  Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol AMGN. As of   February 9, 2017  , there were approximately 6,444 holders of record of our common stock. 
  The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range of high and low quarterly closing sales prices of the common stock as quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market: 

36 

Performance graph 
  The following graph shows the value of an investment of $100 on December 31, 2011, in each of Amgen common stock, the Amex Biotech Index, the Amex Pharmaceutical Index and Standard   Poor s 500 Index (S P 500). All values assume reinvestment of the pretax value of dividends and are calculated as of December 31 of each year. The historical stock price performance of the Company s common stock shown in the performance graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 
               Amgen vs. Amex Biotech, Amex Pharmaceutical and S P 500 Indices 
      Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return 
      Value of Investment of $100 on December 31, 2011 

The material in this performance graph is not soliciting material, is not deemed filed with the SEC, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing of the Company under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, whether made on, before or after the date of this filing and irrespective of any general incorporation language in such filing. 
  
   37 

Stock repurchase program 
  During the three months and year ended December 31, 2016, we had one outstanding stock repurchase program, under which the repurchasing activity was as follows: 

(1)   
    Average price paid per share includes related expenses. 
               (2)   
    In October 2016, our Board of Directors authorized an increase that resulted in a total of $5.0 billion available under the stock repurchase program. 
     Dividends 
  For the years ended   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , we paid quarterly dividends. We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, although the amount and timing of any future dividends are subject to approval by our Board of Directors. Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Part IV Note 15, Stockholders  equity, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Existing Equity Compensation Plans 
  Information about securities authorized for issuance under existing equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference from Item 12 Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Existing Equity Compensation Plans. 
  
   38 

Item 6. 
    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

In addition to the following notes, see Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes and previously filed Annual Reports on Form 10-K for further information regarding our consolidated results of operations and financial position for periods reported therein and for known factors that will impact comparability of future results. Also, see Part IV Note 15, Stockholders  equity, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for information regarding cash dividends declared per share of common stock for each of the four quarters of 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. In addition, our Board of Directors declared dividends per share of $0.47 and $0.36 that were paid in each of the four quarters of 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
   (1)      See Part IV Note 14, Financing arrangements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of our financing arrangements. In 2013, we issued long-term debt of $8.1 billion and repaid an aggregate amount of $3.4 billion. In 2012, we issued $5.0 billion aggregate principal amount of notes. 
   (2)      Throughout the five years ended December 31, 2016, we had a stock repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors through which we repurchased     $3.0 billion  ,   $1.9 billion  ,   $0.2 billion  , $0.8 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively, of Amgen common stock. 
  
   39 

Item 7. 
    MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following management s discussion and analysis (MD A) is intended to assist the reader in understanding Amgen s business. MD A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our results of operations discussed in MD A are presented in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Amgen operates in one business segment: human therapeutics. Therefore, our results of operations are discussed on a consolidated basis. 
  Forward-looking statements 
  This report and other documents we file with the SEC contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business, our beliefs and our management s assumptions. In addition, we, or others on our behalf, may make forward-looking statements in press releases or written statements, or in our communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls and conference calls. Such words as  expect,   anticipate,   outlook,   could,   target,   project,   intend,   plan,   believe,   seek,   estimate,   should,   may,   assume,  and  continue,  as well as variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and they involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. We describe our respective risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect the outcome or results of operations in Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have based our forward-looking statements on our management s beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied or forecast by our forward-looking statements. Reference is made in particular to forward-looking statements regarding product sales, regulatory activities, clinical trial results, reimbursement, expenses, earnings per share (EPS), liquidity and capital resources, trends, planned dividends, stock repurchases and restructuring plans. Except as required under the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not have any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. 
  
   40 

Overview 
  Amgen is committed to unlocking the potential of biology for patients suffering from serious illnesses by discovering, developing, manufacturing and delivering innovative human therapeutics. This approach begins by using tools like advanced human genetics to unravel the complexities of disease and understand the fundamentals of human biology. 
  Amgen focuses on areas of high unmet medical need and leverages its expertise to strive for solutions that improve health outcomes and dramatically improve people s lives. A biotechnology pioneer since 1980, Amgen has grown to be one of the world s leading independent biotechnology companies, has reached millions of patients around the world and is developing a pipeline of medicines with breakaway potential. 
  Our strategy is to develop innovative medicines in six focused therapeutic areas that meet important unmet medical needs in addressing serious illness. We have a presence in approximately 100 countries worldwide focusing on: oncology/hematology, cardiovascular disease, inflammation, bone health, nephrology and neuroscience. Our principal products include ENBREL, Neulasta       ,       Aranesp       , Prolia       , Sensipar       /Mimpara       , XGEVA       , EPOGEN       , and NEUPOGEN       . For additional information about our products, see Part I, Item 1. Business Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products. 
  
  In 2016, we made substantial progress on our strategic priorities with strong execution across the business. 
             
    Over the past year, our financial performance was strong, as total revenues increased 6%. Net income increased 11% and diluted EPS increased by 13% driven by higher total revenues and continued improvement in operating leverage enabled by the transformation initiatives. 
                
    Our pipeline continued to advance with the U.S. regulatory filing for EVENITY       , approval of Parsabiv        in the EU, and in early 2017, approval in the United States. We announced positive phase 2 and phase 3 results for erenumab for chronic and episodic migraine, respectively, and positive phase 3 results for XGEVA        for the prevention of SREs in patients with multiple myeloma. We also announced positive phase 3 results for Repatha        for the treatment of coronary artery disease and in early 2017, positive top-line results in our phase 3 cardiovascular outcomes and cognitive function trials. We received new indications for KYPROLIS       , Nplate       , BLINCYTO        and ENBREL. Additionally, we continued to advance our biosimilar program, including the U.S. approval and EU regulatory submission for AMJEVITA       / ABP 501, global regulatory submission of ABP 215, and phase 3 data for ABP 980. Throughout the course of the year, we invested in external early-stage innovation to augment our internal research efforts. 
                
    We built the foundation for long-term growth through our product launches in new parts of the world, as seen by our ability to secure 94 country product launches. 
                
    We made investments in next-generation biomanufacturing that build on our expertise in manufacturing, including our new Singapore facility for which licensure is under way. We believe that our next-generation biomanufacturing will reduce the scale and cost of making biologics while retaining a reliable, high-quality, compliant supply of medicines. 
     
   41 

We continue to innovate with patient- and provider-friendly delivery systems to differentiate our products, as seen by our U.S. launch of the Repatha        Pushtronex        system, a new monthly single-dose administration option, and the continued growth of the Neulasta        OnPro        kit in the United States. 
                
    Cash flows from operating activities grew 6% to $10.4 billion, enabling us to invest for the future and return capital to shareholders, consistent with our expectations for long-term growth. We increased our dividend 27% to $1.00 per share of common stock in each of the four quarters of 2016. In December 2016, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $1.15 per share of common stock for the first quarter of 2017, an increase of 15% for this period, to be paid in March 2017. We also repurchased 19.7 million shares of our common stock throughout 2016 at an aggregate cost of $3.0 billion. 
                
    We have focused our business and operating model through significant transformation and process improvement efforts. Our transformation has established a foundation for longer-term growth and we are approaching the development of promising new medicines with greater understanding, speed and confidence. 
     While 2016 execution was strong, we expect 2017 to be an increasingly challenging environment. Our long-term success depends to a great extent on our ability to continue to discover, develop and commercialize innovative products and acquire or collaborate on therapies currently in development by other companies. We must develop new products over time in order to provide for revenue growth and to offset revenue losses when products lose their exclusivity or competing products are launched. Certain of our products will face increasing pressure from competitive product launches, including from biosimilars. For additional information, including information on the expiration of patents for various products, see Part I, Item 1. Business Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products Patents and see Part I, Item 1. Business Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products Competition. We devote considerable resources to R D activities. However, successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain. We are also confronted by increasing regulatory scrutiny of safety and efficacy both before and after products launch. 
  Rising healthcare costs and economic conditions also continue to pose challenges to our business, including continued pressure by third-party payers, such as governments and private payers, to reduce healthcare expenditures. As a result of public and private health care provider focus, the industry continues to experience significant pricing pressures and other cost containment measures. 
  Finally, wholesale and end-user buying patterns can affect our product sales. These effects can cause fluctuations in quarterly product sales and have generally not been significant when comparing full-year product performance to the prior year. See Part I, Item 1. Business Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of certain of the factors that could impact our future product sales. 
  We believe we are well positioned for the challenges and opportunities in the coming year. Challenges and opportunities led us to begin our transformation at Amgen, which will continue to be an important part of our strategy and execution. We have enthusiasm for the future and long-term growth based on innovative medicines that make a difference for patients suffering from serious illness. We are focused on executing our strategy and delivering results. 
  
   42 

Selected financial information 
  The following is an overview of our results of operations (in millions, except percentages and per share data): 

In the following discussion of changes in product sales, any reference to unit demand growth or decline refers to changes in the purchases of our products by healthcare providers, such as physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. 
  U.S. product sales for 2016 increased across the portfolio except for EPOGEN        and NEUPOGEN       , which declined by 31% and 33%, respectively. The U.S. increase was driven primarily by increases in net selling prices. The increase in ROW product sales for 2016 was driven primarily by higher unit demand from new product launches, offset by unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates and declines in net selling prices. 
  Operating expenses for 2016 were flat as the savings from transformation and process improvement efforts were offset by increased support for launch products  . 
  Although changes in foreign currency exchange rates result in increases or decreases in our reported international product sales, the benefit or detriment that such movements have on our international product sales is offset partially by corresponding increases or decreases in our international operating expenses and our related foreign currency hedging activities. Our hedging activities seek to offset the impacts, both positive and negative, that foreign currency exchange rate changes may have on our net income by hedging our net foreign currency exposure, primarily with respect to product sales denominated in euros. The net impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates was not material in 2016, 2015 or 2014. 
  
   43 

Results of Operations 
  Product sales 
  Worldwide product sales were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

Future sales of our products will depend, in part, on the factors discussed in the Overview, Part I, Item 1. Business Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products Competition, in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors and any additional factors discussed in the individual product sections below. In addition, for a list of our products  significant competitors, see Part I, Item 1. Business Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products Competition. 
  ENBREL 
  Total ENBREL sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

The increases in ENBREL sales for 2016 and 2015 were driven primarily by an increase in net selling price, offset partially by the impact of competition. 
  In 2017, we expect intensifying competition and relatively little benefit from net selling price changes. 
  Neulasta       
  Total Neulasta        sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

The decrease in global Neulasta        sales for 2016 was driven primarily by lower unit demand, offset by an increase in net selling price in the United States. As of the end of December 2016, utilization of the Neulasta        Onpro        kit continues to grow in the United States. 
  
   44 

The increase in global Neulasta        sales for 2015 was driven primarily by an increase in net selling price in the United States, offset partially by unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 
   Our final material U.S. patent for pegfilgrastim (Neulasta       ) expired in October 2015. Therefore, we expect to face competition in the United States, which over time may have a material adverse impact on future sales of Neulasta       . Apotex, Inc. (Apotex), Sandoz and Coherus BioSciences, Inc., announced that the FDA has accepted their applications for proposed biosimilar versions of Neulasta       . Novartis indicated that it received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA. For discussion of ongoing litigation between us and Apotex and Sandoz, see Part IV Note 18, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  In addition, supplementary protection certificates issued by certain countries, including France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, relating to our European patent for pegfilgrastim (Neulasta       ) will expire in August 2017. For further information regarding our patents, see Part I, Item 1. Business Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products Patents. 
  Future Neulasta        sales will also depend, in part, on the development of new protocols, tests and/or treatments for cancer and/or new chemotherapy treatments or alternatives to chemotherapy that may have reduced and may continue to reduce the use of chemotherapy in some patients. 
  Aranesp       
  Total Aranesp        sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

The increases in global Aranesp        sales for 2016 and 2015   were driven by unit demand growth, including a shift from EPOGEN          in the United States, offset partially by     a decrease in net selling   price in ROW. 
  Prolia        
  Total Prolia        sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

The increases in global Prolia        sales for 2016 and 2015 were driven primarily by unit demand growth. 
  Sensipar       /Mimpara       
  Total Sensipar       /Mimpara        sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

The increase in global Sensipar       /Mimpara        sales for 2016 was driven primarily by an increase in net selling price in the United States and unit demand growth. 
  
   45 

The increase in global Sensipar       /Mimpara        sales for 2015 was driven primarily by unit demand growth and an increase in net selling price in the United States. ROW Sensipar       /Mimpara        sales were negatively impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 
  XGEVA       
  Total XGEVA        sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

The increases in global XGEVA        sales for 2016 and 2015 were driven primarily by unit demand growth. 
  EPOGEN       
  Total EPOGEN        sales were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

The decrease in EPOGEN        sales for 2016 was driven by a decline in unit demand resulting from competition and a shift in dialysis sales   to A  ranesp       . 
  The decrease in EPOGEN        sales for 2015 was driven by a decline in unit demand resulting from competition and a shift in dialysis sales   to A  ranesp       , offset partially by an increase in net selling price. 
  Our final material U.S. patent for EPOGEN        expired in May 2015.   There is competition in the United States, which has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse impact on EPOGEN        sales.   Further in   December 2014, Hospira, Inc. (Hospira), a subsidiary of Pfizer, submitted a BLA to the FDA for Retacrit       , a proposed biosimilar to EPOGEN       . For discussion of ongoing litigation between us and Hospira, see Part IV Note 18, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  NEUPOGEN       
  Total NEUPOGEN        sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

The decreases in global NEUPOGEN        sales for 2016 and 2015 were driven by a decline in unit demand due primarily to the impact of short-acting competition in the United States. 
  There is competition, which has intensified and will continue to have a material adverse impact on sales of NEUPOGEN       . We expect competitive trends to continue into 2017 from existing branded and new and existing biosimilar competition. See Part I, Item 1. Business Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products Competition and Part IV Note 18, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of ongoing litigation. 
  Future NEUPOGEN        sales will also depend, in part, on the development of new protocols, tests and/or treatments for cancer and/or new chemotherapy treatments or alternatives to chemotherapy that may have reduced and may continue to reduce the use of chemotherapy in some patients. 
  
   46 

Other products 
  Other product sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

* Change in excess of 100% 
  Operating expenses 
  Operating expenses were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

* Change in excess of 100% 
  
   47 

Transformation and process improvement 
  During 2014, we announced transformation and process improvement initiatives that we continue to execute on. As part of these efforts, we committed to a more agile and efficient operating model. Our transformation and process improvement efforts across the Company are enabling us to reallocate resources to fund many of our innovative pipeline and growth opportunities that deliver value to patients and stockholders. 
  The transformation includes a restructuring plan that will result in pre-tax accounting charges in the range of   $800 million   to   $900 million  . As of December 31, 2016, restructuring costs incurred to date were $709 million. During the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we incurred restructuring costs of $37 million, $114 million and $558 million, respectively. We expect that we will incur most of the remaining estimated costs in 2017 in order to support our ongoing transformation and process improvement efforts. Since 2014, we have realized approximately $1.2 billion of transformation and process improvement savings. Net savings were not significant in 2016, 2015 and 2014 as savings were reinvested in product launches, clinical programs and external business development. Additional information required for our restructuring plan is incorporated herein by reference to Part IV Note 2, Restructuring, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Cost of sales 
  Cost of sales decreased to 18.1% of total revenues for 2016, driven primarily by manufacturing efficiencies. 
  Cost of sales decreased to 19.5% of total revenues for 2015, driven primarily by lower royalties, higher net selling prices, manufacturing efficiencies and lower costs related to our restructuring plan. The year ended December 31, 2014, also had a $99 million charge related to the termination of the supply contract with Roche as a result of acquiring the licenses to filgrastim and pegfilgrastim effective January 1, 2014. 
  The excise tax imposed by Puerto Rico on the gross intercompany purchase price of goods and services from our manufacturer in Puerto Rico (Puerto Rico excise tax) is recorded as a cost of sales expense. Excluding the impact of the Puerto Rico excise tax, cost of sales would have been 16.5%, 17.8% and 20.1% of total revenues for   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. See Part IV Note 5, Income taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Research and development 
  The Company groups all of its R D activities and related expenditures into three categories: (1) Discovery Research and Translational Sciences (DRTS), (2) later-stage clinical programs and (3) marketed products. These categories include the Company s R D activities as set forth in the following table: 
                   Category 
      
    Description 
      DRTS 
      
    R D expenses incurred in activities substantially in support of early research through the completion of phase 1 clinical trials. These activities encompass our DRTS functions, including drug discovery, toxicology, pharmacokinetics and drug metabolism, and process development. 
      Later-stage clinical programs 
      
    R D expenses incurred in or related to phase 2 and phase 3 clinical programs intended to result in registration of a new product or a new indication for an existing product in the United States or the EU. 
      Marketed products 
      
    R D expenses incurred in support of the Company s marketed products that are authorized to be sold in the United States or the EU. Includes clinical trials designed to gather information on product safety (certain of which may be required by regulatory authorities) and their product characteristics after regulatory approval has been obtained, as well as the costs of obtaining regulatory approval of a product in a new market after approval in either the United States or the EU has been obtained. 

R D expense by category was as follows (in millions): 

48 

The decreases in R D expenses for 2016 and 2015 were driven primarily by decreased costs associated with later-stage clinical programs support of $822 million and $411 million, respectively, offset partially by increased costs associated with marketed products support of $550 million and $399 million, respectively. All categories of R D spend benefited from savings from transformation and process improvement efforts. The decreases were offset partially by reinvestment for the long-term benefit of the company, including increases in DRTS for up-front milestone payments related to several collaboration transactions. Prior to approval, costs related to our launch products were categorized largely as later-stage clinical programs. 
  Selling, general and administrative 
  The increase in Selling, general and administrative (SG A) expense for 2016 was driven primarily by further investments in product launches, offset partially by the expiration of the ENBREL residual royalty payments on October 31, 2016. 
  The increase in SG A expense for 2015 was driven primarily by new product launches, offset partially by savings from transformation and process improvement efforts under our restructuring plan. 
  The ENBREL co-promotion term expired in October 2013, and we were required to pay Pfizer residual royalties on a declining percentage of net ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada. Effective November 2016, there were no further residual royalty payments. The residual royalty percentage ranged from 10% to 12% in 2014, 2015, and 2016. 
  Other 
  Other operating expenses for 2016 included $105 million of charges related to legal proceedings. 
  Other operating expenses for 2015 included $91 million of charges related to legal proceedings, certain charges related to our restructuring initiatives, including separation costs of $49 million, $31 million of write-offs of non-key assets acquired in a prior year business combination, and $111 million of gains from the sale of assets related to our site closures. 
  Other operating expenses for 2014 included certain charges related to our restructuring plan, primarily separation costs of $377 million. It also included a $46 million write-off of a non-key IPR D program acquired in a prior year business combination. 
  Non-operating expenses/income and provision for income taxes 
  Non-operating expenses/income and provision for income taxes were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

Interest expense, net 
  The increases in interest expense, net in 2016 and 2015 were due primarily to a higher average amount of debt outstanding compared with the respective prior year. 
  Interest and other income, net 
  The increase in interest and other income, net for 2016 compared with 2015 was due primarily to higher interest income as a result of higher average cash and investment balances in 2016, offset partially by higher gains on strategic equity investments in 2015. The increase in interest and other income, net for 2015 compared with 2014 was due primarily to higher interest income as a result of higher average cash and investment balances with a modestly higher portfolio yield, offset partially by higher net losses on sales of interest bearing securities in 2015. 
   
  Income taxes 
  The increase in our effective tax rate for 2016 compared with 2015 was due primarily to the unfavorable tax impact of changes in jurisdictional mix of income and expenses, offset partially by the adoption of a new accounting standard that amends certain aspects of the accounting for employee share-based compensation payments. One aspect of the standard requires that excess tax benefits and deficiencies that arise upon vesting or exercise of share-based payments be recognized as an income tax benefit and expense in the income statement. 
  
   49 

The increase in our effective tax rate for 2015 compared with 2014 was due primarily to the unfavorable tax impact of changes in the jurisdictional mix of income and expenses and lower domestic restructuring costs in 2015. 
  The effective tax rates for 2016, 2015 and 2014 would have been approximately 18.6%, 16.4% and 12.8%, respectively, without the impact of the tax credits associated with the Puerto Rico excise tax. 
  As permitted under GAAP, we do not provide for U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign operations that are intended to be invested indefinitely outside the United States. 
  See Summary of Critical Accounting Policies Income taxes and Part IV Note 5, Income taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
   
  Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources 
  Selected financial data was as follows (in millions): 

We intend to continue to return capital to stockholders through the payment of cash dividends and stock repurchases reflecting our confidence in the future cash flows of our business. The timing and amount of future dividends and stock repurchases will vary based on a number of factors, including future capital requirements for strategic transactions, the availability of financing on acceptable terms, debt service requirements, our credit rating, changes to applicable tax laws or corporate laws, changes to our business model and periodic determination by our Board of Directors that cash dividends and/or stock repurchases are in the best interests of stockholders and are in compliance with applicable laws and agreements of the Company. In addition, the timing and amount of stock repurchases may also be affected by the stock price and blackout periods, during which we are restricted from repurchasing stock. The manner of stock repurchases may include private block purchases, tender offers and market transactions. 
  The Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.61 per share of common stock in 2014, increased our quarterly cash dividend by 30% to $0.79 per share of common stock in 2015, and increased our quarterly cash dividend by 27% to $1.00 per share of common stock in 2016. In December 2016, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $1.15 per share of common stock for the first quarter of 2017, an increase of 15% for this period, to be paid in March 2017. 
  We have also returned capital to stockholders through our stock repurchase program. During 2016 and 2015, we repurchased   $3.0 billion   and $1.9 billion of our common stock, respectively. During the fourth quarter of 2014, we repurchased $153 million of our common stock, of which $138 million was paid in cash by December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2016,   $4.1 billion   remained available under the stock repurchase program. 
  We believe that existing funds, cash generated from operations and existing sources of and access to financing are adequate to satisfy our needs for working capital; capital expenditure and debt service requirements; our plans to pay dividends and repurchase stock; and other business initiatives we plan to strategically pursue, including acquisitions and licensing activities. We anticipate that our liquidity needs can be met through a variety of sources, including cash provided by operating activities, sales of marketable securities, borrowings through commercial paper and/or our syndicated credit facilities and access to other domestic and foreign debt markets and equity markets. With respect to our U.S. operations, we believe that existing funds intended for use in the United States; cash generated from our U.S. operations, including intercompany payments and receipts; and existing sources of and access to financing (collectively, U.S. funds) are adequate to continue meeting our U.S. obligations, including our plans to pay dividends and repurchase stock with U.S. funds, for the foreseeable future. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors Global economic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business. 
  Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities 
  Of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling   $38.1 billion   as of   December 31, 2016  , approximately $35.9 billion was generated from operations in foreign tax jurisdictions and is intended to be invested indefinitely outside the United States. Under current tax laws, if these funds were repatriated for use in our U.S. operations, we would be required to pay additional income taxes at the tax rates then in effect. 
  
   50 

The primary objective of our investment portfolio is to enhance overall returns in an efficient manner while maintaining safety of principal, prudent levels of liquidity and acceptable levels of risk. Our investment policy limits interest-bearing security investments to certain types of debt and money market instruments issued by institutions with primarily investment-grade credit ratings and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by asset class and issuer. 
  Financing arrangements 
  The current and noncurrent portions of our long-term borrowings at December 31,   2016  , were $  4.4   billion and $  30.2   billion, respectively. The current and noncurrent portions of our long-term borrowings at December 31,   2015  , were $  2.2   billion and $  29.2   billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2016, Standard   Poor s Financial Services LLC (S P), Moody s Investor Service, Inc. (Moody s) and Fitch Ratings Inc. assigned credit ratings to our outstanding senior notes of A with a stable outlook, Baa1 with a stable outlook and BBB with a stable outlook, respectively, which are considered investment grade. Unfavorable changes to these ratings may have an adverse impact on future financings. 
  During the years ended December 31,   2016  , 2015 and 2014, we issued debt with aggregate principal amounts of $7.3 billion, $3.5 billion and   $4.5 billion, respectively. During the   years ended December 31,   2016  , 2015 and 2014, we   repaid debt   of $3.7 billion, $2.4 billion and   $5.6 billion, respectively. For information regarding specific issuances and repayments of debt, see   Part IV   Note 14, Financing arrangements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  To achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate debt, we entered into interest rate swap contracts that effectively converted a fixed-rate interest coupon for certain of our debt issuances to a floating London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR)-based coupon over the life of the respective note. These interest rate swap contracts qualified and are designated as fair value hedges. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, we had interest rate swap contracts with aggregate notional amounts of $6.65 billion. See Part IV Note 14, Financing arrangements, and Note 17, Derivative instruments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  To hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with certain of our long-term notes denominated in foreign currencies, we entered into cross-currency swap contracts, which effectively convert the interest payments and principal repayment of the respective notes from euros, pounds sterling and Swiss francs to U.S. dollars. These cross-currency swap contracts qualified and are designated as cash flow hedges. As of   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , we had cross-currency swap contracts with aggregate notional amounts of $5.6 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively. See Part IV Note 17, Derivative instruments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , we had a commercial paper program that allows us to issue up to $2.5 billion of unsecured commercial paper to fund our working capital needs. At   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , we had no amounts outstanding under our commercial paper program, although we anticipate utilizing the commercial paper program in 2017. 
  In 2014, we entered into a $2.5 billion syndicated, unsecured, revolving credit agreement which is available for general corporate purposes or as a liquidity backstop to our commercial paper program. The commitments under the revolving credit agreement may be increased by up to $500 million with the agreement of the banks. Each bank which is a party to the agreement has an initial commitment term of five years. We extended this term by one year during 2016 and may extend the term for an additional year with the agreement of the banks. Annual commitment fees for this agreement are 0.09% of the unused portion of the facility based on our current credit rating. Generally, we would be charged interest at LIBOR plus 1% for any amounts borrowed under this facility. As of   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , no amounts were outstanding under this facility. 
  In 2014, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC that allows us to issue unspecified amounts of debt securities; common stock; preferred stock; warrants to purchase debt securities, common stock, preferred stock or depositary shares; rights to purchase common stock or preferred stock; securities purchase contracts; securities purchase units; and depositary shares. Under this shelf registration statement, all of the securities available for issuance may be offered from time to time with terms to be determined at the time of issuance. This shelf registration statement expires on February 23, 2017, and is expected to be renewed before its expiration date. 
  In 1997, we established a $400 million medium-term note program under which medium-term debt securities may be offered from time to time with terms to be determined at the time of issuance. As of   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , no securities were outstanding under this medium-term note program. 
  Certain of our financing arrangements contain non-financial covenants. In addition, our revolving credit agreement includes a financial covenant with respect to the level of our borrowings in relation to our equity, as defined. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants under this arrangement as of   December 31, 2016  . See Part IV Note 14, Financing arrangements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   51 

Cash flows 
  A summary of our cash flow activity was as follows (in millions): 

Operating 
  Cash provided by operating activities has been and is expected to continue to be our primary recurring source of funds. Cash provided by operating activities increased during 2016 due primarily to an improved operating margin and the timing of customer payments, offset partially by inventory build, the monetization of foreign currency forward contracts in 2015 and the timing of tax payments. Cash provided by operating activities increased during 2015 due primarily to improvement in our operating margin and the monetization of foreign currency contracts that resulted in the receipt of $340 million in cash, offset by the timing of payments to vendors and cash received from customers. 
  Investing 
  Capital expenditures, which were associated primarily with manufacturing capacity expansions in Singapore, Puerto Rico and Ireland, as well as other site developments, totaled $  738   million, $  594   million and $  718   million in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. We currently estimate 2017 spending on capital projects and equipment to be consistent with 2016 spend. 
  Cash used in investing activities during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, also included the cost of acquiring certain businesses, net of cash acquired, which totaled $  359 million   and $  165 million  , respectively. 
  Net cash invested in marketable securities was   $7.7 billion  ,   $4.4 billion   and   $5.0 billion   in 2016,   2015   and 2014, respectively. In addition, restricted investments provided   $533 million   in 2014. 
  Financing 
  Cash used in financing activities during 2016 was due primarily to the repayment of debt of   $3.7 billion  , the payment of dividends of   $3.0 billion  , repurchases of our common stock of $  3.0 billion   and withholding taxes arising from shares withheld for share-based payments of $  260 million  , offset partially by net proceeds from the issuance of debt of   $7.3 billion  . Cash used in financing activities during 2015 was due primarily to the repayment of long-term debt of   $2.4 billion  , the payment of dividends of   $2.4 billion  , repurchases of our common stock of   $1.9 billion  , withholding taxes arising from shares withheld for share-based payments of $  401 million   and the settlement of contingent consideration obligations incurred in connection with the acquisition of a business of   $253 million  . These payments were offset partially by net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of   $3.5 billion  . Cash used in financing activities during 2014 was due primarily to the repayment of long-term debt of   $5.6 billion  , the payment of dividends of   $1.9 billion  , withholding taxes arising from shares withheld for share-based payments of   $225 million   and repurchases of our common stock of   $138 million  . These payments were offset partially by net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of   $4.5 billion   and net proceeds from the issuance of common stock in connection with the Company s equity award programs of   $186 million  . 
  See Part IV Note 14, Financing arrangements, and Note 15, Stockholders  equity, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
   
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are material or reasonably likely to become material to our consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. 
   
  Contractual Obligations 
  Contractual obligations represent future cash commitments and liabilities under agreements with third parties, and exclude contingent liabilities for which we cannot reasonably predict future payment. Additionally, the expected timing of payment of the obligations presented below is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon terms or amounts for some obligations. 
  
   52 

The following table represents our contractual obligations aggregated by type (in millions): 

(1)   
    Long-term debt obligations include future interest payments on our fixed rate obligations at the contractual coupon rates. To achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate debt, we entered into interest rate swap contracts that effectively converted a fixed rate interest coupon for certain of our debt issuances to a floating LIBOR-based coupon over the life of the respective note. We used an interest rate forward curve at   December 31, 2016  , in computing net amounts to be paid or received under our interest rate swap contracts which resulted in an aggregate net decrease in future interest payments of $39 million. See Part IV Note 14, Financing arrangements,     to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
               (2)   
    Long-term debt obligations include future interest payments on our LIBOR-based variable rate obligations. We used an interest rate forward curve at   December 31, 2016  , in computing the LIBOR-based portion of interest payments on these debt obligations. See Part IV Note 14, Financing arrangements,     to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
               (3)   
    Long-term debt obligations include contractual interest payments and principal repayment of our foreign-denominated debt obligations. In order to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with certain of our pound sterling and euro denominated long-term debt, we entered into cross-currency swap contracts that effectively convert interest payments and principal repayment on this debt from euros/pounds sterling to U.S. dollars. For purposes of this table, we used the contracted exchange rates in the cross-currency swap contracts to compute the net amounts of future interest payments and principal repayments on this debt. See Part IV Note 17, Derivative instruments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
               (4)   
    Interest payments and the repayment of principal on our 4.375% 2018 euro Notes were translated into U.S. dollars at the foreign currency exchange rate in effect at   December 31, 2016  . See Part IV Note 14, Financing arrangements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
               (5)   
    Operating lease obligations exclude $228 million of future receipts under noncancelable subleases of abandoned facilities. 
               (6)   
    Purchase obligations relate primarily to: (i) R D commitments (including those related to clinical trials) for new and existing products; (ii) capital expenditures; and (iii) open purchase orders for the acquisition of goods and services in the ordinary course of business. Our obligation to pay certain of these amounts may be reduced based on certain future events. 
               (7)   
    Liabilities for UTBs (net of foreign tax credits and federal tax benefit of state taxes) and related accrued interest and penalties totaling approximately $2.5 billion at   December 31, 2016  , are not included in the table above because, due to their nature, there is a high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows and other events that extinguish these liabilities. 
     In addition to amounts in the table above, we are contractually obligated to pay additional amounts, which in the aggregate are significant, upon the achievement of various development, regulatory and commercial milestones for agreements we have entered into with third parties, including contingent consideration incurred in the acquisitions of Dezima Pharma B.V. (Dezima) and Biovex Group Inc. (BioVex). These payments are contingent upon the occurrence of various future events, substantially all of which have a high degree of uncertainty of occurring. These contingent payments have not been included in the table above, and, except with respect to the fair value of the contingent consideration obligations, are not recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of   December 31, 2016  , the maximum amount that may be payable in the future for agreements we have entered into with third parties is approximately $7.5 billion, including $1.6 billion of contingent consideration payments in connection with the acquisitions of Dezima and BioVex. See Part IV Note 16, Fair value measurement to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
   
  Summary of Critical Accounting Policies 
  The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and the notes to the financial statements. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and therefore, actual results could differ materially from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 
  
   53 

Product sales and sales deductions 
  Revenues from sales of our products are recognized when the products are shipped and title and risk of loss have passed. Product sales are recorded net of accruals for estimated rebates, wholesaler chargebacks, cash discounts and other deductions (collectively, sales deductions) and returns, which are established at the time of sale. 
  We analyze the adequacy of our accruals for sales deductions quarterly. Amounts accrued for sales deductions are adjusted when trends or significant events indicate that adjustment is appropriate. Accruals are also adjusted to reflect actual results. Amounts recorded in Accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for sales deductions were as follows (in millions): 

For the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , total sales deductions were 31%, 27% and 25% of gross product sales, respectively. Included in the amounts are immaterial net adjustments related to prior-year sales due to changes in estimates. Such amounts represent less than 1% of the aggregate sales deductions charged against product sales in each of the three years ended   December 31, 2016  . 
  In the United States, we utilize wholesalers as the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers, such as physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. Products we sell in Europe are distributed principally to hospitals and/or wholesalers depending on the distribution practice in each country where the product is sold. We monitor the inventory levels of our products at our wholesalers by using data from our wholesalers and other third parties, and we believe wholesaler inventories have been maintained at appropriate levels (generally two to three weeks) given end-user demand. Accordingly, historical fluctuations in wholesaler inventory levels have not significantly impacted our method of estimating sales deductions and returns. 
  Accruals for sales deductions are based primarily on estimates of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales. These estimates take into consideration current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, internal and external historical data and forecasted customer buying patterns. Sales deductions are substantially product-specific and, therefore, for any given year, can be impacted by the mix of products sold. 
  Rebates include primarily amounts paid to payers and providers in the United States, including those paid to state Medicaid programs, and are based on contractual arrangements or statutory requirements which vary by product, by payer and by individual payer plans. As we sell product, we estimate the amount of rebate we will pay based on the product sold, contractual terms, estimated patient population, historical experience and wholesaler inventory levels and accrue these rebates in the period the related sale is recorded. We then adjust the rebate accruals as more information becomes available and to reflect actual claims experience. Estimating such rebates is complicated, in part because of the time delay between the date of sale and the actual settlement of the liability. We believe the methodology we use to accrue for rebates is reasonable and appropriate given current facts and circumstances, but actual results may differ.  
  Wholesaler chargebacks relate to our contractual agreements to sell products to healthcare providers in the United States at fixed prices that are lower than the prices we charge wholesalers. When healthcare providers purchase our products through wholesalers at these reduced prices, wholesalers charge us for the difference between their purchase price and the contractual price between Amgen and the healthcare providers. The provision for chargebacks is based on the expected sales by our wholesaler customers to healthcare providers. Accruals for wholesaler chargebacks are less difficult to estimate than rebates and closely approximate actual results since chargeback amounts are fixed at the date of purchase by the healthcare providers, and we generally settle the liability for these deductions within a few weeks. 
  
   54 

Product returns 
  Returns are estimated through comparison of historical return data to their related sales on a production lot basis. Historical rates of return are determined for each product and are adjusted for known or expected changes in the marketplace specific to each product, when appropriate. In each of the past three years, sales return provisions have amounted to less than 1% of gross product sales. Changes in estimates for prior-year sales return provisions have historically been insignificant. 
  Income taxes 
  We provide for income taxes based on pretax income and applicable tax rates available in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. 
  We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements on a particular tax position are measured based on the largest benefit that is more likely than not to be realized. The amount of UTBs is adjusted as appropriate for changes in facts and circumstances, such as significant amendments to existing tax law, new regulations or interpretations by the taxing authorities, new information obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of an examination. We believe our estimates for uncertain tax positions are appropriate and sufficient for any assessments that may result from examinations of our tax returns. We recognize both accrued interest and penalties, where appropriate, related to UTBs in income tax expense. 
  Certain items are included in our tax return at different times than they are reflected in the financial statements and cause temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. Such temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are generally items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the tax return in future years but for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in the financial statements. We establish valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities are either: (i) tax expenses recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred; (ii) expenses for which we have already taken a deduction on the tax return, but have not yet recognized the expense in the financial statements; or (iii) liabilities for the difference between the book basis and tax basis of the intangible assets acquired in many business combinations, as future expenses associated with these assets most often will not be tax deductible. 
  We are a vertically integrated enterprise with operations in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to income tax in the foreign jurisdictions where we conduct activities based on the tax laws and principles of such jurisdictions and the functions, risks and activities performed therein. Our pretax income is therefore attributed to domestic or foreign sources based on the operations performed and risks assumed in each location and the tax laws and principles of the respective taxing jurisdictions. For example, we conduct significant operations in Puerto Rico, a territory of the United States that is treated as a foreign jurisdiction for U.S. tax purposes, pertaining to manufacturing, distribution and other related functions to meet our worldwide product demand. Income from our operations in Puerto Rico is subject to tax incentive grants through 2035. 
  Our effective tax rate reflects the impact of undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. income taxes or foreign withholding taxes have been provided because such earnings are intended to be invested indefinitely outside the United States. Substantially all of this benefit is attributable to our foreign income associated with our operations conducted in Puerto Rico. 
  If future events, including material changes in cash, working capital and long-term investment requirements necessitate that certain assets associated with these earnings be repatriated to the United States, under current tax laws an additional tax provision and related liability would be required at the applicable income tax rates which could have a material adverse effect on both our future effective tax rate and our financial results. 
  Our operations are subject to the tax laws, regulations and administrative practices of the United States, U.S. state jurisdictions and other countries in which we do business. Significant changes in these rules could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors  The adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. 
  Contingencies 
  In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in various legal proceedings and other matters such as intellectual property disputes, contractual disputes, governmental investigations and class action suits which are complex in nature and have outcomes that are difficult to predict. (Certain of these proceedings are discussed in Part IV Note 18, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) We record accruals for loss contingencies to the extent that we conclude that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the related loss can be reasonably estimated. We consider all relevant factors when making assessments regarding these contingencies. 
  
   55 

While it is not possible to accurately predict or determine the eventual outcomes of these items, an adverse determination in one or more of these items currently pending could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
  Valuation of assets and liabilities in connection with business combinations 
  We have acquired and continue to acquire intangible assets in connection with business combinations. These intangible assets consist primarily of technology associated with currently marketed human therapeutic products and IPR D product candidates. Discounted cash flow models are typically used to determine the fair values of these intangible assets for purposes of allocating consideration paid to the net assets acquired in a business combination. These models require the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including, but not limited to: 
             
    determining the timing and expected costs to complete in-process projects taking into account the stage of completion at the acquisition date; 
                
    projecting the probability and timing of obtaining marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies for product candidates; 
                
    estimating the timing of and future net cash flows from product sales resulting from completed products and in-process projects; and 
                
    developing appropriate discount rates to calculate the present values of the cash flows. 
     Significant estimates and assumptions are also required to determine the acquisition date fair values of any contingent consideration obligations incurred in connection with business combinations. In addition, we must revalue these obligations each subsequent reporting period until the related contingencies are resolved and record changes in their fair values in earnings. The acquisition date fair values of various contingent consideration obligations incurred or assumed in the acquisitions of businesses (see Part IV Note 3, Business combinations, and Note 16, Fair value measurement, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) were determined using a combination of valuation techniques. Significant estimates and assumptions required for these valuations included, but were not limited to, the probability of achieving regulatory milestones, product sales projections under various scenarios and discount rates used to calculate the present value of the required payments. These estimates and assumptions are required to be updated in order to revalue these contingent consideration obligations each reporting period. Accordingly, subsequent changes in underlying facts and circumstances could result in changes in these estimates and assumptions, which could have a material impact on the estimated future fair values of these obligations. 
  We believe the fair values used to record intangible assets acquired and contingent consideration obligations incurred in connection with business combinations are based upon reasonable estimates and assumptions given the facts and circumstances as of the related valuation dates. 
  Impairment of long-lived assets 
  We review the carrying value of our property, plant and equipment and our finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If such circumstances exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows to be generated by the long-lived asset is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset s fair value and its carrying value. 
  Indefinite-lived intangible assets, composed of IPR D projects acquired in a business combination which have not reached technological feasibility or lack regulatory approval at the time of acquisition, are reviewed for impairment annually, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable and upon establishment of technological feasibility or regulatory approval. We determine impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset to its carrying value. If the asset s carrying value exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference and its carrying value is reduced accordingly. 
  Estimating future cash flows of an IPR D product candidate for purposes of an impairment analysis requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding the amount and timing of costs to complete the project and the amount, timing and probability of achieving revenues from the completed product similar to how the acquisition date fair value of the project was determined, as described above. There are often major risks and uncertainties associated with IPR D projects as we are required to obtain regulatory approvals in order to be able to market these products. Such approvals require completing clinical trials that demonstrate a product candidate is safe and effective. Consequently, the eventual realized value of the acquired IPR D project may vary from its estimated fair value at the date of acquisition, and IPR D impairment charges may occur in future periods which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 
  
   56 

We believe our estimations of future cash flows used for assessing impairment of long-lived assets are based on reasonable assumptions given the facts and circumstances as of the related dates of the assessments. 
   
                 Item 7A. 
    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

We are exposed to market risks that may result from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and prices of equity instruments as well as changes in general economic conditions in the countries where we conduct business. To reduce certain of these risks, we enter into various types of foreign currency and interest rate derivative hedging transactions as part of our risk management program. We do not use derivatives for speculative trading purposes. 
  In the discussion that follows, we have assumed a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100 basis points from those at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  . We have also assumed a hypothetical 20% change in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar based on its position relative to other currencies as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  . 
  Interest rate sensitive financial instruments 
  Our portfolio of available-for-sale interest-bearing securities at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , was composed of: U.S. Treasury securities and other government-related debt securities; corporate debt securities; residential mortgage-backed and other mortgage- and asset-backed securities; money market mutual funds; and other short-term interest-bearing securities, composed principally of commercial paper. The fair values of our investment portfolio of interest-bearing securities were $37.6 billion and $31.0 billion at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively. Duration is a sensitivity measure that can be used to approximate the change in the value of a security that will result from a 100 basis point change in interest rates. Applying a duration model, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , would have resulted in a reduction in the fair values of these securities of approximately $900 million and $840 million, respectively, on these dates. In addition, a hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in interest rates at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , would not result in a material effect on income in the respective ensuing year. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , we had outstanding debt with a carrying value of $34.6 billion and a fair value of $36.5 billion. As of   December 31, 2015  , we had outstanding debt with a carrying value of $31.4 billion and a fair value of $33.1 billion. Our outstanding debt was composed primarily of debt with fixed interest rates as the carrying values of variable rate debt were $1.5 billion and $2.8 billion at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively. Changes in interest rates do not affect interest expense on fixed-rate debt. Changes in interest rates would, however, affect the fair values of fixed-rate debt. A hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in interest rates relative to interest rates at   December 31, 2016   and 2015, would have resulted in an increase of approximately $3.0 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, in the aggregate fair value of our outstanding debt on each of these dates. The analysis for the debt does not consider the impact that hypothetical changes in interest rates would have on the related interest rate swap contracts and cross-currency swap contracts, discussed below. 
  To achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate debt, we entered into interest rate swap contracts which qualified and were designated for accounting purposes as fair value hedges, for certain of our fixed-rate debt. These interest rate swap contracts effectively converted a fixed-rate interest coupon to a floating-rate LIBOR-based coupon over the life of the respective note. Interest rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $6.65 billion were outstanding at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  . A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates relative to interest rates at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , would have resulted in reductions in fair values of approximately $240 million and $290 million, respectively, on our interest rate swap contracts on these dates and would not result in a material effect on the related income in the respective ensuing years. The analysis for the interest rate swap contracts does not consider the impact that hypothetical changes in interest rates would have on the related fair values of debt that these interest rate sensitive instruments were designed to offset.  
  As of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , we had outstanding cross-currency swap contracts with aggregate notional amounts of $5.6 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, that hedge certain of our foreign currency denominated debt and related interest payments. These contracts effectively convert interest payments and principal repayment of this debt to U.S. dollars from euros/pounds sterling and are designated for accounting purposes as cash flow hedges. A hypothetical 100 basis point adverse movement in interest rates relative to interest rates at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , would have resulted in reductions in the fair values of our cross-currency swap contracts of approximately $450 million and $210 million, respectively. 
  Foreign currency sensitive financial instruments 
  Our international operations are affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, predominantly the euro. Increases and decreases in our international product sales from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are offset partially by the corresponding increases or decreases in our international operating expenses. Increases and decreases in our foreign currency denominated assets from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are offset partially by the corresponding increases or decreases in our foreign currency denominated liabilities. To further reduce our net exposure to foreign  
  
   57 

currency exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations, we enter into foreign currency forward, option and cross-currency swap contracts. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , we had outstanding euro, pound sterling and Swiss franc denominated debt with a carrying value and fair value of $5.5 billion. As of   December 31, 2015  , we had euro and pound sterling denominated debt with a carrying value and fair value of $3.0 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively. A hypothetical 20% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange rates at   December 31, 2016  , would have resulted in an increase in fair value of this debt of approximately $1.2 billion on this date and a reduction in income in the ensuing year of approximately $1.1 billion. A hypothetical 20% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange rates at   December 31, 2015  , would have resulted in an increase in fair value of this debt of approximately $660 million on this date and a reduction in income in the ensuing year of approximately $610 million. The impact on income from these hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates would be substantially offset by the impact such changes would have on related cross-currency swap contracts, which are in place for the majority of the foreign currency denominated debt. 
  We have cross-currency swap contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges of certain of our debt denominated in euros, pounds sterling and Swiss francs with aggregate notional amounts of $5.6 billion and $2.7 billion, as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively. A hypothetical 20% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange rates on these dates, would have resulted in a reduction in the fair values of these contracts of approximately $1.2 billion and $610 million on these dates, respectively. The impact on income in the ensuing years from these contracts of this hypothetical adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would be fully offset by the corresponding hypothetical changes in the carrying amounts of the related hedged debt. 
  We enter into foreign currency forward and options contracts that are designated for accounting purposes as cash flow hedges of certain anticipated foreign currency transactions. As of   December 31, 2016  , we had open foreign currency forward and options contracts, primarily euro-based, with notional amounts of   $3.4 billion   and   $608 million  , respectively. As of   December 31, 2015  , we had open foreign currency forward and options contracts, primarily euro-based, with notional amounts of   $3.3 billion   and   $225 million  , respectively. As of   December 31, 2016   and 2015, the fair values of these contracts were approximately $200 million and $140 million, respectively. With regard to foreign currency forward and option contracts that were open at   December 31, 2016  , a hypothetical 20% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange rates at   December 31, 2016  , would have resulted in a reduction in fair value of these contracts of approximately $650 million on this date and, in the ensuing year, a reduction in income of approximately $300 million. With regard to contracts that were open at   December 31, 2015  , a hypothetical 20% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange rates at   December 31, 2015  , would have resulted in a reduction in fair value of these contracts of approximately $650 million on this date and, in the ensuing year, a reduction in income of approximately $320 million. The analysis does not consider the impact that hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates would have on anticipated transactions that these foreign currency sensitive instruments were designed to offset. 
  As of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , we had open foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts totaling   $666 million   and   $911 million  , respectively, that hedged fluctuations of certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies but were not designated as hedges for accounting purposes. These contracts had no material net unrealized gains or losses at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  . With regard to these foreign currency forward contracts that were open at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , a hypothetical 20% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange rates on these dates would not have a material effect on the fair values of these contracts or related income in the respective ensuing years. The analysis does not consider the impact that hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates would have on assets and liabilities that these foreign currency sensitive instruments were designed to offset. 
  Market price sensitive financial instruments 
  As of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , we were also exposed to price risk on equity securities included in our portfolio of investments, which were acquired primarily for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. These investments are generally in small capitalization stocks in the biotechnology industry sector. Price risk relative to our equity investment portfolio as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , was not material. 
  Counterparty credit risks 
  Our financial instruments, including derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk which we consider as part of the overall fair value measurement. Our financial risk management policy limits derivative transactions by requiring transactions to be with institutions with minimum credit ratings of A- or equivalent by S P and Moody s and requires placing exposure limits on the amount with any individual counterparty. In addition, we have an investment policy that limits investments to certain types of debt and money market instruments issued by institutions primarily with investment-grade credit ratings and places restriction on maturities and concentrations by asset class and issuer. 
  
   58 

Item 8. 
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the financial statements and schedule listed in Item 15(a)1 and (a)2 of Part IV and included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
   
                 Item 9. 
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES 

None. 
   
                 Item 9A. 
    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

We maintain  disclosure controls and procedures,  as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e), that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in Amgen s Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to Amgen s management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, Amgen s management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives and in reaching a reasonable level of assurance Amgen s management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. We have carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including Amgen s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of Amgen s disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon their evaluation and subject to the foregoing, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of   December 31, 2016  . 
  Management determined that, as of   December 31, 2016  , there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter then ended that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
   
  Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. However, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and reporting. 
  Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  . In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013 framework). Based on our assessment, management believes that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  , based on the COSO criteria. 
  The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting has been audited by Ernst   Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report appearing below, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  . 
  
   59 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Amgen Inc. 
  We have audited Amgen Inc. s (the  Company ) internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  , based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the  COSO criteria ). Amgen Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, Amgen Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  , based on the COSO criteria. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income, Stockholders  Equity and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016 of Amgen Inc. and our report dated   February 14, 2017  , expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
    
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP 
  Los Angeles, California 
  February 14, 2017    
   
                 Item 9B. 
    OTHER INFORMATION 

Not applicable. 
  
   60 

PART III 
   
                 Item 10. 
    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

Information about our Directors is incorporated by reference from the section entitled ITEM 1 ELECTION OF DIRECTORS in our Proxy Statement for the   2017   Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of   December 31, 2016   (the Proxy Statement). Information about compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference from the section entitled OTHER MATTERS Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance in our Proxy Statement. Information about the procedures by which stockholders may recommend nominees for the Board of Directors is incorporated by reference from APPENDIX A AMGEN INC. BOARD OF DIRECTORS GUIDELINES FOR DIRECTOR QUALIFICATIONS AND EVALUATIONS and OTHER MATTERS Stockholder Proposals for the 2018 Annual Meeting in our Proxy Statement. Information about our Audit Committee, members of the committee and our Audit Committee financial experts is incorporated by reference from the section entitled CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board Committees and Charters Audit Committee in our Proxy Statement. Information about our executive officers is contained in the discussion entitled Item 1. Business Executive Officers of the Registrant. 
   
  Code of Ethics 
  We maintain a code of ethics applicable to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and other persons performing similar functions. To view this code of ethics free of charge, please visit our website at www.amgen.com. This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in our website is not intended to be a part of this filing. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of this code of ethics, if any, by posting such information on our website as set forth above. 
   
                 Item 11. 
    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

Information about director and executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the section entitled EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION in our Proxy Statement. Information about compensation committee matters is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board Committees and Charters Compensation and Management Development Committee and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation Committee Report in our Proxy Statement. 
  
   61 

Item 12. 
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Existing Equity Compensation Plans 
  The following table sets forth certain information as of   December 31, 2016  , concerning the shares of our Common Stock that may be issued under any form of award granted under our equity compensation plans in effect as of   December 31, 2016  , (including upon the exercise of options, the vesting of awards of restricted stock units, or RSUs, or when performance units are earned, and related dividend equivalents have been granted). 

(1)   
    The Amended and Restated 2009 Equity Incentive Plan employs a fungible share counting formula for determining the number of shares available for issuance under the plan. In accordance with this formula, each option or stock appreciation right counts as one share, while each restricted stock unit, performance unit or dividend equivalent counts as 1.9 shares. The number under column (a) represents the actual number of shares issuable under our outstanding awards without giving effect to the fungible share counting formula. The number under column (c) represents the number of shares available for issuance under this plan based on each such available share counting as one share. Commencing with the grants made in April 2012, RSUs and performance units accrue dividend equivalents that are payable in shares only to the extent and when the underlying RSUs vest or underlying performance units have been earned and the related shares are issued to the grantee. The performance units granted under this plan are earned based on the accomplishment of specified performance goals at the end of their respective three-year performance periods; the number of performance units granted represent target performance and the maximum number of units that could be earned based on our performance is 150% of the performance units granted prior to 2016 and 200% of performance units granted in 2016. 
     As of December 31, 2016, the number of outstanding awards under column (a) includes: (i) 3,137,900 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options with a weighted-average exercise price of approximately $100.21; (ii) 4,161,174 shares issuable upon the vesting of outstanding RSUs (including 197,371 related dividend equivalents); and (iii)     2,862,798   shares subject to outstanding 2014, 2015 and 2016 performance units (including 126,398 related dividend equivalents). The weighted-average exercise price shown in column (b) is for the outstanding options only. The number of available shares under column (c) represents the number of shares that remain available for future issuance under this plan as of December 31, 2016, employing the fungible share formula and presumes the issuance of target shares under the performance units granted in 2014, 2015 and 2016 and related dividend equivalents. The numbers under columns (a) and (c) do not give effect to the additional shares that could be issuable in the event above target on the performance goals under these outstanding performance units are achieved. Maximum performance under these goals could result in 150% of target shares being awarded for performance units granted in 2014 and 2015 and 200% of target shares being awarded for performance units granted in 2016. 
  
   62 

(2)   
    This plan has terminated as to future grants. The number under column (a) with respect to this plan includes 26,691 shares issuable upon the vesting of outstanding RSUs (including 4,236 related dividend equivalents). 
               (3)   
    The Amgen Profit Sharing Plan for Employees in Ireland (the Profit Sharing Plan) was approved by the Board of Directors on July 28, 2011. The Profit Sharing Plan permits eligible employees of the Company s subsidiaries located in Ireland, which participate in the Profit Sharing Plan, to apply a portion of their qualifying bonus and salary to the purchase the Company s Common Stock on the open market at the market price by a third-party trustee as described in the Profit Sharing Plan. 
      
  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers and Certain Beneficial Owners 
  Information about security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS and SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS in our Proxy Statement. 
   
                 Item 13. 
    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 

Information about certain relationships and related transactions and director independence is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Director Independence in our Proxy Statement. 
   
                 Item 14. 
    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 

Information about the fees for professional services rendered by our independent registered public accountants is incorporated by reference from the section entitled AUDIT MATTERS Independent Registered Public Accountants in our Proxy Statement. 
  
   63 

PART IV 
   
                 Item 15. 
    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a)1. 
    Index to Financial Statements 
     The following Consolidated Financial Statements are included herein: 
                   
    Page 
  number 
      Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    F-1 

Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016 
    F-2 

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016 
    F-3 

Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2016 and 2015 
    F-4 

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016 
    F-5 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016 
    F-6 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
    F-7 

(a)2. 
    Index to Financial Statement Schedules 
     The following Schedule is filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: 
                   
    Page 
  number 
      II. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
    F-50 

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, not required or because the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto. 
           (a)3. 
    Exhibits 

64 

65 

66 

67 

10.33 
      
    Collaboration Agreement, dated April 22, 1994, by and between Bayer Corporation (formerly Miles, Inc.) and Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 by Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on May 10, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference.) 

10.34 
      
    Amendment to Collaboration Agreement, dated April 24, 1996, by and between Bayer Corporation and Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 by Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on May 10, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference.) 

10.35 
      
    Amendment to Collaboration Agreement, dated February 1, 1999, by and between Bayer Corporation and Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 by Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on May 10, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference.) 

10.36 
      
    Settlement Agreement and Release, dated October 11, 2011, by and between Bayer Corporation, Bayer AG, Bayer HealthCare LLC and Bayer Pharma AG and Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 by Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on February 27, 2012 and incorporated herein by reference.) 

10.37 
      
    Fourth Amendment to Collaboration Agreement, dated October 11, 2011, by and between Bayer Corporation and Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 by Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on February 27, 2012 and incorporated herein by reference.) 

10.38 
      
    Side Letter Regarding Collaboration Agreement, dated May 29, 2015, by and between Bayer HealthCare LLC and Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 on August 5, 2015 and incorporated herein by reference.)  

21* 
      
    Subsidiaries of the Company 

23 
      
    Consent of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. The consent is set forth on page 70 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

24 
      
    Power of Attorney. The Power of Attorney is set forth on page 71 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

31* 
      
    Rule 13a-14(a) Certifications. 

32** 
      
    Section 1350 Certifications. 

101.INS* 
      
    XBRL Instance Document. 

101.SCH* 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. 

101.CAL* 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. 

101.DEF* 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document. 

101.LAB* 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. 

101.PRE* 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. 

____________________________ 
  (*   = filed herewith) 
  (** = furnished herewith and not  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) 
  (+   = management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement) 
  
   68 

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

AMGEN INC. 

(Registrant) 

Date: 
    February 14, 2017 
    By: 
      
    /  S  /    DAVID W. MELINE 

David W. Meline 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

69 

EXHIBIT 23 
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements: 
              
    Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-39183) pertaining to the Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan; 
                  
    Registration Statements (Form S-8 Nos. 33-47605 and 333-144580) pertaining to the Retirement and Savings Plan for Amgen Manufacturing, Limited (formerly known as the Retirement and Savings Plan for Amgen Manufacturing, Inc.); 
                  
    Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-194103) relating to debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants to purchase debt securities, common stock, preferred stock or depositary shares, rights to purchase common stock or preferred stock, securities purchase contracts, securities purchase units and depositary shares of Amgen Inc. and in the related Prospectus; and 
      of our reports dated   February 14, 2017  , with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Amgen Inc. and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Amgen Inc. included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Amgen Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2016. 
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP 
  Los Angeles, California 
  February 14, 2017 

70 

EXHIBIT 24 
  POWER OF ATTORNEY 
  KNOW ALL MEN AND WOMEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints David W. Meline, his or her attorney-in-fact, with the power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Report, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming that said attorney-in-fact, or his or her substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated: 

71 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Amgen Inc. 
  We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of Amgen Inc. (the  Company ) as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income, Stockholders  Equity and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2016  . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) 2. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Amgen Inc. at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2016  , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Amgen Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  , based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated   February 14, 2017  , expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP 
  Los Angeles, California 
  February 14, 2017    

F-1 

AMGEN INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
  Years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014 
  (In millions, except per share data) 

See accompanying notes. 
  
   F-2 

AMGEN INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  Years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014 
  (In millions) 

See accompanying notes. 
  
   F-3 

AMGEN INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  December 31, 2016   and   2015 
  (In millions, except per share data) 

See accompanying notes. 
  
   F-4 

AMGEN INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 
  Years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014 
  (In millions) 

See accompanying notes. 
  
   F-5 

AMGEN INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  Years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014 
  (In millions) 

See accompanying notes. 
  
   F-6 

AMGEN INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  December 31, 2016 
   
  1. Summary of significant accounting policies 
  Business 
  Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as  Amgen,   the Company,   we,   our  or  us ) is a global biotechnology pioneer that discovers, develops, manufactures and delivers innovative human therapeutics. We operate in   one   business segment: human therapeutics. 
  Principles of consolidation 
  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amgen as well as its majority-owned subsidiaries. We do not have any significant interests in any variable interest entities. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. 
  Use of estimates 
  The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results may differ from those estimates. 
  Product sales 
  Sales of our products are recognized when shipped and title and risk of loss have passed. Product sales are recorded net of accruals for estimated rebates, wholesaler chargebacks, discounts and other deductions (collectively, sales deductions) and returns. Taxes collected from customers and remitted to government authorities related to the sales of the Company s products, primarily in Europe, are excluded from revenues. 
  Other revenues 
  Other revenues consist primarily of royalty income and corporate partner revenues. Royalties from licensees are based on third-party sales of licensed products and are recorded in accordance with contract terms when third-party results are reliably measurable and collectability is reasonably assured. Royalty estimates are made in advance of amounts collected using historical and forecasted trends. Corporate partner revenues are composed mainly of license fees and milestones earned, our share of commercial profits generated from collaborations and amounts earned for certain research and development (R D) services performed for others including Kirin-Amgen, Inc. (K-A), which are recognized as the R D services are performed. See Multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements, discussed below, Note 7, Collaborative arrangements, and Note 8, Related party transactions. 
  Multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements 
  From time to time, we enter into arrangements for the R D, manufacture and/or commercialization of products and product candidates. These arrangements may require us to deliver various rights, services and/or goods across the entire life cycle of a product or product candidate, including (i) intellectual property rights/licenses; (ii) R D services; (iii) manufacturing services; and/or (iv) commercialization services. The underlying terms of these arrangements generally provide for consideration to Amgen in the form of non-refundable upfront license payments, R D and commercial performance milestone payments, cost sharing and/or royalty payments. 
  In arrangements involving the delivery of more than one element, each required deliverable is evaluated to determine whether it qualifies as a separate unit of accounting. For Amgen, this determination is generally based on whether the deliverable has  stand-alone value  to the customer. The arrangement s consideration that is fixed and determinable is then allocated to each separate unit of accounting based on the relative selling price of each deliverable. The estimated selling price of each deliverable is determined using the following hierarchy of values: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value; (ii) third-party evidence of selling price; and (iii) best estimate of selling price (BESP). The BESP reflects our best estimate of what the selling price would be if the deliverable was regularly sold by us on a stand-alone basis. In general, the consideration allocated to each unit of accounting is recognized as the related goods or services are delivered, limited to the consideration that is not contingent upon future deliverables. Consideration associated with at-risk substantive performance milestones is recognized as revenue upon the achievement of the related milestone, as defined in the respective contracts. 
  
   F-7 

Research and development costs 
  R D costs are expensed as incurred and include primarily salaries, benefits and other staff-related costs; facilities and overhead costs; clinical trial and related clinical manufacturing costs; contract services and other outside costs; information systems  costs and amortization of acquired technology used in R D with alternative future uses. R D expenses also include costs and cost recoveries associated with third-party R D arrangements such as with K-A, including upfront fees and milestones paid to third parties in connection with technologies which had not reached technological feasibility and did not have an alternative future use. Net payment or reimbursement of R D costs is recognized when the obligations are incurred or as we become entitled to the cost recovery. See Note 7, Collaborative arrangements, and Note 8, Related party transactions. 
  Selling, general and administrative costs 
  Selling, general and administrative (SG A) costs are composed primarily of salaries, benefits and other staff-related costs associated with sales and marketing, finance, legal and other administrative personnel; facilities and overhead costs; outside marketing, advertising and legal expenses; the U.S. healthcare reform federal excise fee on Branded Prescription Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Importers; and other general and administrative costs. Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. SG A expenses also include costs and cost recoveries associated with marketing and promotion efforts under certain collaboration arrangements. Net payment or reimbursement of SG A costs is recognized when the obligations are incurred or we become entitled to the cost recovery. See Note 7, Collaborative arrangements. 
  Stock-based compensation 
  We have stock-based compensation plans under which various types of equity-based awards are granted, including restricted stock units (RSUs), performance units and stock options. The estimated fair values of RSUs and stock option awards which are subject only to service conditions with graded vesting are generally recognized as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures. The estimated fair values of performance unit awards are generally recognized as compensation expense ratably from the grant date to the end of the performance period. See Note 4, Stock-based compensation. 
  Income taxes 
  We provide for income taxes based on pretax income and applicable tax rates available in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Deferred income taxes are recorded for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the bases of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and amounts recognized for income tax purposes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount of future tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized. 
  We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit recognized in the financial statements for a particular tax position is based on the largest benefit that is more likely than not to be realized. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits (UTBs) is adjusted as appropriate for changes in facts and circumstances, such as significant amendments to existing tax law, new regulations or interpretations by the taxing authorities, new information obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of an examination. We recognize both accrued interest and penalties, where appropriate, related to UTBs in income tax expense. See Note 5, Income taxes. 
  Business combinations 
  Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Under the acquisition method, assets acquired, including in-process research and development (IPR D) projects, and liabilities assumed are recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date in our consolidated financial statements. The excess of the fair value of consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Contingent consideration obligations incurred in connection with a business combination (including the assumption of an acquiree s liability arising from a business combination it consummated prior to our acquisition) are recorded at their fair values on the acquisition date and remeasured at their fair values each subsequent reporting period until the related contingencies are resolved. The resulting changes in fair values are recorded in earnings. See Note 3, Business combinations, and Note 16, Fair value measurement. 
  Cash equivalents 
  We consider cash equivalents to be only those investments which are highly liquid, readily convertible to cash and which mature within three months from the date of purchase. 
  
   F-8 

Available-for-sale investments 
  We consider our investment portfolio available-for-sale and, accordingly, these investments are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses generally recorded in other comprehensive income. Investments with maturities beyond one year may be classified as short-term marketable securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets due to their highly liquid nature and because they represent the Company s investments that are available for current operations. See Note 9, Available-for-sale investments, and Note 16, Fair value measurement. 
  Inventories 
  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost, which includes amounts related to materials, labor and overhead, is determined in a manner that approximates the first-in, first-out method. See Note 10, Inventories. 
  Derivatives 
  We recognize all of our derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends upon whether the derivative has been formally designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship under the applicable accounting standards and, further, on the type of hedging relationship. For derivatives formally designated as hedges, we assess both at inception and quarterly thereafter, whether the hedging derivatives are highly effective in offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. Our derivatives that are not designated and do not qualify as hedges are adjusted to fair value through current earnings. See Note 16, Fair value measurement, and Note 17, Derivative instruments. 
  Property, plant and equipment, net 
  Property, plant and equipment is recorded at historical cost, net of accumulated depreciation, amortization and, if applicable, impairment charges. We review our property, plant and equipment assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Depreciation is provided over the assets  useful lives on a straight-line basis. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease terms. See Note 11, Property, plant and equipment. 
  Goodwill and other intangible assets 
  Finite-lived intangible assets are recorded at cost, net of accumulated amortization and, if applicable, impairment charges. Amortization of finite-lived intangible assets is provided over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis or the pattern in which economic benefits are consumed, if reliably determinable. We review our finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. See Note 12, Goodwill and other intangible assets. 
  The estimated fair values of IPR D projects acquired in a business combination which are not complete are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets until completion or abandonment of the related R D efforts. Upon successful completion of the project, the capitalized amount is amortized over its estimated useful life. If a project is abandoned, all remaining capitalized amounts are written-off immediately. There are often major risks and uncertainties associated with IPR D projects as we are required to obtain regulatory approvals in order to be able to market the resulting products. Such approvals require completing clinical trials that demonstrate a product candidate is safe and effective. Consequently, the eventual realized value of the acquired IPR D project may vary from its estimated fair value at the date of acquisition, and IPR D impairment charges may occur in future periods. 
  Capitalized IPR D projects are tested for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We consider various factors for potential impairment, including the current legal and regulatory environment and the competitive landscape. Adverse clinical trial results, significant delays in obtaining marketing approval, the inability to bring a product to market and the introduction or advancement of competitors  products could result in partial or full impairment of the related intangible assets. 
  We perform an impairment test of goodwill annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. To date, an impairment of goodwill has not been recorded. See Note 12, Goodwill and other intangible assets. 
  
   F-9 

Contingencies 
  In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in various legal proceedings and other matters such as intellectual property disputes, contractual disputes, governmental investigations and class action suits which are complex in nature and have outcomes that are difficult to predict. (Certain of these proceedings are discussed in Note 18, Contingencies and commitments.) We record accruals for loss contingencies to the extent that we conclude that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the related loss can be reasonably estimated. We consider all relevant factors when making assessments regarding these contingencies. 
  Foreign currency translation 
  The net assets of international subsidiaries where the local currencies have been determined to be the functional currencies are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recognized in other comprehensive income. The earnings of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. 
  Recent accounting pronouncements 
  In 2016, we retrospectively adopted a new accounting standard that amends the presentation of debt issuance costs. Such costs are now presented as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the debt liability and not as deferred charges presented as assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As a result of adopting this new accounting standard, our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2015, was restated to reflect this impact, which reduced both Other current assets and the Current portion of long-term debt by   $3 million   and both Other assets and Long-term debt by   $124 million  .  
  In 2016, we adopted a new accounting standard that amends certain aspects of the accounting for employee share-based payments. One aspect of the standard requires that excess tax benefits and deficiencies that arise upon vesting or exercise of share-based payments be recognized as income tax benefits and expenses in the income statement. See Note 5, Income taxes. Previously, such amounts were recognized as increases and decreases in common stock and additional paid-in capital. This aspect of the standard was adopted prospectively  ,   and accordingly, the Provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2016, includes   $122 million   of excess tax benefits arising from share-based payments. The new standard also amends the presentation of employee share-based payment-related items in the statement of cash flows by requiring (i) that excess income tax benefits and deficiencies be classified in Cash flows from operating activities (such amounts were previously included in Cash flows from financing activities) and (ii) that cash paid to taxing authorities arising from the withholding of shares from employees be classified in Cash flows from financing activities (such amounts were previously included in Cash flows from operating activities). We adopted the aspects of the standard affecting the cash flow presentation retrospectively, and accordingly, to conform to the current year presentation, in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, we reclassified: (i)   $253 million   and   $172 million  , respectively, of excess tax benefits from Net cash used in financing activities to Net cash provided by operating activities and (ii)   $401 million   and   $225 million  , respectively, of cash paid to taxing authorities arising from withholding of shares from employees from Net cash provided by operating activities to Net cash used in financing activities. 
  In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new accounting standard that amends the guidance for the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers to transfer goods and services. The FASB has subsequently issued additional, clarifying standards to address issues arising from implementation of the new revenue standard. The new revenue standard and clarifying standards are effective for interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2018, and may be adopted earlier, but not before January 1, 2017. The new standards are required to be adopted using either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach. We expect to adopt this standard using the modified retrospective approach beginning in 2018. We have substantially completed our impact assessment and do not currently anticipate a material impact to our Total revenues. We continue to review the impact that this new standard will have on collaboration and license arrangements as well our financial statement disclosures. 
  In January 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard that amends the accounting and disclosures of financial instruments, including a provision that requires equity investments (except for investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in current earnings. The new standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning on January 1, 2018. The impact that this new standard will have on our consolidated financial statements is dependent on the fair value of available-for-sale equity securities in our portfolio in the future. See   Note 9, Available-for-sale investments for the fair value of equity securities as of December 31, 2016. 
  In February 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard that amends the guidance for the accounting and disclosure of leases. This new standard requires that lessees recognize the assets and liabilities that arise from leases on the balance sheet and  
  
   F-10 

disclose qualitative and quantitative information about their leasing arrangements. The new standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning on January 1, 2019, and may be adopted earlier. We continue to evaluate the impact that this new standard will have on our consolidated financial statements. We do not expect that this standard will have a material impact to our Consolidated Statements of Income but expect that this standard will have a material impact to assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets upon adoption. 
  In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard that amends the guidance for measuring and recording credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost by replacing the  incurred loss  model with an  expected loss  model. Accordingly, these financial assets will be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. The new standard also requires that credit losses related to available-for-sale debt securities be recorded through an allowance for such losses rather than reducing the carrying amount under the current, other-than-temporary-impairment model. The new standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning on January 1, 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact that this new standard will have on our consolidated financial statements. 
  In January 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard that changes the definition of a business to assist entities with evaluating when a set of assets acquired or disposed of should be considered a business. The new standard requires an entity to evaluate if substantially all the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets; if so, the set would not be considered a business. The new standard also requires a business to include at least one substantive process and narrows the definition of outputs. We expect that these provisions will reduce the number of transactions that will be considered a business. The new standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning on January 1, 2018, and may be adopted earlier. The standard would be applied prospectively to any transaction occurring on or after the adoption date. We are currently evaluating the impact that this new standard will have on our consolidated financial statements. 
   
  2. Restructuring 
  In 2014, we initiated a restructuring plan to invest in continuing innovation and the launch of our new pipeline molecules, while improving our cost structure. As part of the plan, we have closed facilities in Washington state and Colorado and are reducing the number of buildings we occupy at our headquarters in Thousand Oaks, California, as well as at other locations. 
  We continue to estimate that we will incur   $800 million   to   $900 million   of pre-tax charges in connection with our restructuring plan, including: (i) separation and other headcount-related costs of   $535 million   to   $585 million   with respect to staff reductions, and (ii) asset-related charges of   $265 million   to   $315 million   consisting primarily of asset impairments, accelerated depreciation and other related costs resulting from the consolidation of our worldwide facilities. We have incurred a total of   $477 million   of separation and other headcount-related costs and   $232 million   of net asset-related charges through December 31, 2016. In order to support our ongoing transformation and process improvement efforts, we expect that we will incur most of the remaining estimated costs in 2017. 
  The charges recorded in 2016 were not material for all types of activities presented below. The following tables summarize the 2015 and 2014 charges recorded related to the restructuring plan by type of activity and the locations recognized within the Consolidated Statements of Income (in millions): 

F-11 

We recognized asset impairment and accelerated depreciation charges in connection with our decision to exit Boulder and Longmont, Colorado, and Bothell and Seattle, Washington, and in connection with the consolidation of facilities in Thousand Oaks, California. The decision to close these manufacturing and R D facilities was based principally on optimizing the utilization of our sites in the United States, which includes an expansion of our presence in the key U.S. biotechnology hubs of South San Francisco, California, and Cambridge, Massachusetts. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized gains from the sale of assets related to these site closures. 
  The following table summarizes the expenses (excluding non-cash charges) and payments related to the restructuring plan (in millions): 

3. Business combinations 
  Dezima Pharma B.V. 
  In 2015, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Dezima Pharma B.V. (Dezima), a privately-held, Netherlands-based biotechnology company focused on developing innovative treatments for dyslipidemia. Dezima s lead molecule is AMG 899 (formerly TA-8995), an oral, once-daily cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitor that has completed certain phase 2 trials. This transaction was accounted for as a business combination. Upon its acquisition, Dezima became a wholly owned subsidiary of Amgen, and its operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements commencing on the acquisition date. 
  The aggregate acquisition date consideration to acquire Dezima consisted of (in millions): 
                     Total cash paid to former shareholders of Dezima 
    $ 
    300 
      
      Fair value of contingent consideration obligations 
    110 
      
      Total consideration 
    $ 
    410 

In connection with this acquisition, we are obligated to make additional payments to the former shareholders of Dezima of up to   $1.25 billion   contingent upon the achievement of certain development and sales-related milestones. In addition, low single-digit royalties will be paid on net product sales above a certain threshold. The estimated fair values of the contingent consideration obligations aggregated to   $110 million   as of the acquisition date. See Note 16, Fair value measurement for information regarding the estimated fair values of these obligations as of December 31, 2016. The contingent consideration obligations relating to payments for regulatory milestones were valued based on assumptions regarding the probability of achieving the milestones and making the related payments, with such amounts discounted to present value based on our credit risk. The contingent consideration  
  
   F-12 

obligations relating to sales milestones were valued based on assumptions regarding the probability of achieving specified product sales thresholds to determine the required payments, with such amounts discounted to present value based on our credit risk. 
  The fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed primarily included IPR D of   $400 million  , goodwill of   $108 million   and deferred tax liabilities of   $100 million  . This valuation reflects delayed development pending competitor clinical trials in this class, expected in 2017. The estimated fair value of acquired IPR D related to AMG 899 was determined using a probability-weighted income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value using a discount rate that represents the estimated rate that market participants would use to value the assets. The projected cash flows were based on certain assumptions, including estimates of future revenues and expenses, the time and resources needed to complete development and the probabilities of obtaining marketing approval from regulatory agencies. The excess of the acquisition date consideration over the fair values assigned to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed of   $108 million   was recorded as goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes. Goodwill is attributable primarily to the expected synergies and other benefits that we believe will result from expanding our cardiovascular portfolio with AMG 899; and the deferred tax consequences of acquired IPR D recorded for financial statement purposes. 
  Pro forma results of operations for this acquisition have not been presented because this acquisition is not material to our consolidated results of operations. 
  For the IPR D project discussed above, there are major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely and successful completion of development and commercialization of the product candidate, including our ability to confirm safety and efficacy based on data from clinical trials, our ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals and our ability to successfully complete these tasks within budgeted costs. We are not able to market a human therapeutic without obtaining regulatory approvals, and such approvals require completing clinical trials that demonstrate a product candidate is safe and effective. Consequently, the eventual realized value, if any, of the acquired IPR D project may vary from its estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. 
   
  4. Stock-based compensation 
  Our Amended and Restated 2009 Equity Incentive Plan (the Amended 2009 Plan) authorizes for issuance, shares of our common stock pursuant to grants of equity-based awards, including RSUs, stock options and performance units to employees and consultants of Amgen, its subsidiaries and non-employee members of our Board of Directors. The pool of shares available under the Amended 2009 Plan is reduced by   one   share for each stock option granted and by   1.9   shares for other types of awards granted, including RSUs and performance units (full-value awards). In general, if any shares subject to an award granted under the Amended 2009 Plan expire, or are forfeited, terminated or canceled without the issuance of shares, the shares subject to such awards are added back into the authorized pool on the same basis that they were removed. In addition, under the Amended 2009 Plan, shares withheld to pay for minimum statutory tax obligations with respect to full value awards are added back into the authorized pool on the basis of   1.9   shares. As of   December 31, 2016  , the Amended 2009 Plan provides for future grants and/or issuances of up to approximately   41 million   shares of our common stock. Stock-based awards under our employee compensation plans are made with newly issued shares reserved for this purpose. 
  The following table reflects the components of stock-based compensation expense recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Income (in millions): 

Restricted stock units and stock options 
  Eligible employees generally receive an annual grant of RSUs and, for certain executive level employees, stock options, with the size and type of award generally determined by the employee s salary grade and performance level. In 2016, we reinstated the practice of granting stock options to eligible employees annually, which had been suspended from 2012 through 2015. In addition, certain management and professional-level employees typically receive RSU grants upon commencement of employment. Non-employee members of our Board of Directors also receive an annual grant of RSUs. 
  
   F-13 

Our RSU and stock option grants provide for accelerated or continued vesting in certain circumstances as defined in the plans and related grant agreements, including upon death, disability, termination in connection with a change in control and the retirement of employees who meet certain service and/or age requirements.   RSUs and stock options generally vest in approximately equal amounts on the second, third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date. RSUs   accrue dividend equivalents which are typically payable in shares only when and to the extent the underlying RSUs vest and are issued to the recipient. 
  Restricted stock units 
  The grant date fair value of an RSU equals the closing price of our common stock on the grant date, as RSUs accrue dividend equivalents during their vesting period. The weighted-average grant date fair values of RSUs granted in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   were   $156.76  ,   $166.74   and   $115.63  , respectively. The following summarizes select information regarding our RSUs: 

The total grant date fair values of shares associated with RSUs that vested during the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , were   $193 million  ,   $206 million   and   $191 million  , respectively. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , there were approximately   $303 million   of unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested RSU awards, which are expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   1.7   years. 
  Stock options 
  The exercise price for stock options is set as the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant and the related number of shares granted is fixed at that point in time. Awards expire   10 years   from the date of grant. We use a Black-Scholes option valuation model to estimate the grant date fair values of stock options. The weighted-average assumptions used in the option valuation model and the resulting weighted-average estimated grant date fair value of stock options granted during the year ended December 31, 2016, were as follows: 
                   Closing price of our common stock on grant date 
    $156.35 
      Expected volatility (average of implied and historical volatility) 
    24.3 
    % 
      Expected life (in years) 
    5.8 
      
      Risk-free interest rate 
    1.5 
    % 
      Expected dividend yield 
    2.6 
    % 
      Fair value of stock options granted 
    $27.55 

F-14 

The following summarizes select information regarding our stock options: 

The total intrinsic values of options exercised during the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , were   $102 million  ,   $150 million   and   $228 million  , respectively. The actual tax benefits realized from tax deductions from option exercises during the three years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , were   $37 million  ,   $55 million   and   $83 million  , respectively. 
  Performance units 
  Certain management-level employees also receive annual grants of performance units, which give the recipient the right to receive common stock that is contingent upon achievement of specified pre-established goals over the performance period, which is generally   three years  . The performance goals for the units granted in 2016, 2015 and 2014, which are accounted for as equity awards, are based upon Amgen s stockholder return compared with a comparator group of companies, which are considered market conditions and are reflected in the grant date fair values of the units, and for units granted in 2016, Amgen s standalone financial performance measures, which are considered performance conditions. The expense recognized for awards granted in 2016 is based on the grant date fair value of a unit multiplied by the number of units expected to be earned with respect to the performance conditions, net of estimated forfeitures. The expense recognized for the awards granted in 2015 and 2014 is based on the grant date fair value of a unit multiplied by the number of units granted, net of estimated forfeitures. Depending on the outcome of these performance goals, a recipient may ultimately earn a number of units greater or less than the number of units granted. Shares of our common stock are issued on a   one-for-one basis   for each performance unit earned. In general, performance unit awards vest at the end of the performance period. The performance award program provides for accelerated or continued vesting in certain circumstances as defined in the plan, including upon death, disability, a change in control and retirement of employees who meet certain service and/or age requirements. Performance units accrue dividend equivalents which are typically payable in shares only when and to the extent the underlying performance units vest and are issued to the recipient, including with respect to market and performance conditions that affect the number of performance units earned. 
  We used payout simulation models to estimate the grant date fair value of performance units granted in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  . The weighted-average assumptions used in these models and the resulting weighted-average grant date fair values of our performance units were as follows: 

The payout simulation models also assumed correlations of returns of the stock prices of our common stock and the common stocks of the comparator groups of companies and stock price volatilities of the comparator groups of companies. 
  
   F-15 

As of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , a total of   2.8 million   and   3.8 million   performance units were outstanding with weighted-average grant date fair values of   $144.43   and   $121.34   per unit, respectively. During the year ended   December 31, 2016  ,   0.8 million   performance units with a weighted-average grant date fair value of   $170.56   were granted and   0.2 million   performance units with a weighted-average grant date fair value of   $140.31   were forfeited. 
  The total fair values of performance units that vested during 2016 and   2014   were   $347 million   and   $587 million  , respectively based upon the number of performance units earned multiplied by the closing stock price of our common stock on the last day of the performance period.   No   performance units vested during the year ended December 31, 2015. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , there was approximately   $144 million   of unrecognized compensation cost related to the   2016   and   2015   performance unit grants that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately   one   year. 
   
  5. Income taxes 
  Income before income taxes included the following (in millions): 

The provision for income taxes included the following (in millions): 

Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, tax credit carryforwards and the tax effects of net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards. 
  
   F-16 

Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows (in millions): 

Valuation allowances are provided to reduce the amounts of our deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized based on an assessment of positive and negative evidence, including estimates of future taxable income necessary to realize future deductible amounts. 
  The valuation allowance increased in 2016 due primarily to the Company s expectation that some state R D credits will not be utilized. This increase was offset partially by valuation allowance releases due to sufficient positive evidence to conclude that it is more likely than not that certain foreign NOL carryforwards are realizable. The valuation allowance decreased in 2015 due primarily to the release of valuation allowances against U.S. and foreign deferred tax assets due to the existence of sufficient taxable temporary differences that enable the use of the tax benefit of existing deferred tax assets. 
  At   December 31, 2016  , we had   $20 million   of federal tax credit carryforwards available to reduce future federal income taxes and have provided   no   valuation allowance for those federal tax credit carryforwards. The federal tax credit carryforwards expire between 2026 and 2034. We had   $385 million   of state tax credit carryforwards available to reduce future state income taxes and have provided a valuation allowance for   $363 million   of those state tax credit carryforwards. The state credits for which   no   valuation allowance has been provided expire between 2022 and 2030. 
  At December 31, 2016, we had   $147 million   of NOL carryforwards available to reduce future federal income taxes and have provided a valuation allowance for   $6 million   of those federal NOL carryforwards. The federal NOL carryforwards, for which no valuation allowance has been provided, expire between 2020 and 2035. We had   $469 million   of NOL carryforwards available to reduce future state income taxes and have provided a valuation allowance for   $445 million   of those state NOL carryforwards. The state NOLs for which no valuation allowance has been provided expire between 2017 and 2032. We had   $1.8 billion   of NOL carryforwards available to reduce future foreign income taxes and have provided a valuation allowance for   $587 million   of those foreign NOL carryforwards.   $594 million   of the foreign NOLs for which no valuation allowance has been provided have no expiry; the remaining NOLs for which no valuation allowance has been provided will expire between 2017 and 2023. 
  
   F-17 

The reconciliations of the total gross amounts of UTBs (excluding interest, penalties, foreign tax credits and the federal tax benefit of state taxes related to UTBs) were as follows (in millions): 

Substantially all of the UTBs as of   December 31, 2016  , if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we settled various examinations with state tax authorities for prior tax years. As a result of these developments, we remeasured our UTBs accordingly. As of December 31, 2016, we believe it is reasonably possible that our gross liabilities for UTBs may decrease by approximately   $63 million   within the succeeding 12 months due to the resolution of state audits. 
  Interest and penalties related to UTBs are included in our provision for income taxes. During   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , we recognized income tax expense of approximately   $125 million  ,   $17 million   and   $35 million  , respectively, of interest and penalties through the income tax provision in the Consolidated Statements of Income. At   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , accrued interest and penalties associated with UTBs totaled approximately   $276 million   and   $151 million  , respectively. 
  The reconciliations between the federal statutory tax rate applied to income before income taxes and our effective tax rate were as follows: 

The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, are different from the federal statutory rates primarily as a result of indefinitely invested earnings of our foreign operations. We do not provide for U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign operations that are intended to be invested indefinitely outside the United States. Substantially all of the benefit from foreign earnings on our effective tax rate results from foreign income associated with the Company s operation conducted in Puerto Rico, a territory of the United States that is treated as a foreign jurisdiction for U.S. tax purposes, and is subject to tax incentive grants through 2035. At   December 31, 2016  , the cumulative amount of these earnings was approximately   $36.6 billion  . If these earnings were repatriated to the United States, we would be required to recognize and pay approximately   $12.8 billion   of additional income taxes based on the current tax rates in effect. 
  Puerto Rico imposes an excise tax on the gross intercompany purchase price of goods and services from our manufacturer in Puerto Rico. The rate of   4%   was recently extended and is now set to expire December 31, 2027. We account for the excise tax as a manufacturing cost that is capitalized in inventory and expensed in cost of sales when the related products are sold. For U.S. income tax purposes, the excise tax results in foreign tax credits that are generally recognized in our provision for income taxes when the excise tax is incurred. 
  
   F-18 

Income taxes paid during the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , totaled   $1.1 billion  ,   $919 million   and   $269 million  , respectively. 
  One or more of our legal entities file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various U.S. state jurisdictions and certain foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax returns are routinely audited by the tax authorities in those jurisdictions. Significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions, the use of tax credits and allocations of income and expense among various tax jurisdictions because of differing interpretations of tax laws, regulations and the interpretation of the relevant facts. We are no longer subject to U.S. federal income tax examinations for tax years ended on or before December 31, 2009, or to California state income tax examinations for tax years ended on or before December 31, 2008. We are currently under audit by the IRS for tax years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012. 
   
  6. Earnings per share 
  The computation of basic earnings per share (EPS) is based on the weighted-average number of our common shares outstanding. The computation of diluted EPS is based on the weighted-average number of our common shares outstanding and dilutive potential common shares, which include primarily shares that may be issued under our stock option, restricted stock and performance unit award programs, as determined using the treasury stock method (collectively, dilutive securities). 
  The computation for basic and diluted EPS was as follows (in millions, except per share data): 

For each of the three years ended   December 31, 2016  , the number of anti-dilutive employee stock-based awards excluded from the computation of diluted EPS was not significant. 
   
  7. Collaborative arrangements 
  A collaborative arrangement is a contractual arrangement that involves a joint operating activity. These arrangements involve two or more parties who are both: (i) active participants in the activity and (ii) exposed to significant risks and rewards dependent on the commercial success of the activity. 
  From time to time, we enter into collaborative arrangements for the R D, manufacture and/or commercialization of products and/or product candidates. These collaborations generally provide for non-refundable upfront license fees, development and commercial performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing. Our collaboration agreements are performed with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success and each is unique in nature. Our significant arrangements are discussed below. 
  Pfizer Inc. 
  The co-promotion term of our Enbrel        collaboration agreement with Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) in the United States and Canada expired on October 31, 2013. Under this agreement, we paid Pfizer a profit share until October 31, 2013, and residual royalties from November 1, 2013 to October 31, 2016, which were significantly less than the profit share payments. In 2016, the residual royalty payments were   10%   of the annual net ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada. Effective November 1, 2016, there are no further royalty payments. 
  
   F-19 

During the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, residual royalties due to Pfizer on ENBREL sales were   $470 million  ,   $561 million  , and   $509 million   respectively. These amounts are included in Selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  UCB 
  We are in a collaboration with UCB for the development and commercialization of EVENITY       . In 2016, we amended the commercialization rights and responsibilities of the parties. Under the amended agreement, we have the rights to commercialize EVENITY        for all indications in the United States and Japan. UCB has the rights for Europe, China and Brazil. The rest of the countries have been allocated to Amgen. Generally, development costs and future worldwide commercialization profits and losses related to the collaboration after accounting for expenses are shared equally. The collaboration agreement will continue in effect unless terminated earlier in accordance with its terms. During the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , the net costs recovered from UCB were   $48 million  ,   $60 million   and   $96 million  , respectively, which are included primarily in Research and development expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc. 
  We are in a collaboration with Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Bayer) to jointly develop and commercialize Nexavar        worldwide, except in Japan. The rights to develop and market Nexavar        in Japan are reserved to Bayer. Nexavar        is currently marketed and sold in more than   100   countries around the world for the treatment of unresectable liver cancer and advanced kidney cancer. In the United States, Nexavar        is also approved for the treatment of patients with locally recurrent or metastatic, progressive, differentiated thyroid carcinoma refractory to radioactive iodine treatment. 
  In 2015, we amended the terms of our collaboration agreement with Bayer, which terminated the co-promotion agreement in the United States, and transferred all U.S. operational responsibilities to Bayer, including commercial and medical affairs activities. Prior to the termination of the co-promotion agreement, we co-promoted Nexavar        with Bayer and shared equally in the profits or losses in the United States. In lieu of this profit share, Bayer now pays Amgen a royalty on U.S. sales of Nexavar        at a percentage rate in the   high 30  s. Amgen no longer contributes sales force personnel or medical liaisons to support Nexavar        in the United States. There are no changes to the global research and development or non-U.S. profit share arrangements in the original agreement, as discussed below. 
  In all countries outside the United States, excluding Japan, Bayer manages all commercialization activities and incurs all of the sales and marketing expenditures and mutually agreed R D expenses, for which we continue to reimburse Bayer for half. In these countries, we continue to receive   50%   of net profits on sales of Nexavar        after deducting certain Bayer-related costs. 
  The agreement with Bayer will terminate at the later of the date when patents expire that were issued in connection with product candidates discovered under the agreement, or on the last day when we or Bayer market or sell products commercialized under the agreement anywhere in the world. 
  During the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, Amgen recorded Nexavar        net profits of   $167 million  ,   $257 million   and   $324 million  , respectively, which were recognized as Other revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Pursuant to the 2015 amendment to the agreement, Amgen recorded royalty income on the U.S. sales of Nexavar        subsequent to the termination of the co-promotion. During the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, Amgen recorded royalty income of   $137 million   and   $72 million  , respectively, in Other revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income. In addition, during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, net R D expenses related to the agreement were not material. 
  Other 
  In addition to the collaborations discussed above, we have various others that are not individually significant to our business at this time. Pursuant to the terms of those agreements, we may be required to pay or we may receive additional amounts upon the achievement of various development and commercial milestones which in the aggregate could be significant. We may also incur or have reimbursed to us significant R D costs if the related product candidate were to advance to late stage clinical trials. In addition, if any products related to these collaborations are approved for sale, we may be required to pay or we may receive significant royalties on future sales. The payment of these amounts, however, is contingent upon the occurrence of various future events, which have a high degree of uncertainty of occurrence. 
  
   F-20 

8. Related party transactions 
  We own a   50%   interest in K-A, a corporation formed in 1984 with Kirin Holdings Company, Limited (Kirin) for the development and commercialization of certain products based on advanced biotechnology. All of our rights to manufacture and market certain products including pegfilgrastim, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, darbepoetin alfa, recombinant human erythropoietin and romiplostim are pursuant to exclusive licenses from K-A, which we currently market under the brand names Neulasta       , NEUPOGEN       /GRANULOKINE       , Aranesp       , EPOGEN       , and Nplate       , respectively. 
  We account for our interest in K-A using the equity method and include our share of K-A s profits or losses in Selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. For the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , our share of K-A s profits were   $58 million  ,   $65 million   and   $30 million  , respectively. The carrying value of our equity method investment in K-A was approximately   $501 million   and   $443 million   as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively, and is included in noncurrent Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  K-A s revenues consist of royalty income related to its licensed technology rights. K-A receives royalty income from us, as well as from Kirin and Johnson   Johnson under separate product license contracts for certain geographic areas outside the United States. During the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , K-A earned royalties from us of   $239 million  ,   $264 million   and   $301 million  , respectively. These amounts are included in Cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  K-A s expenses consist primarily of costs related to R D activities conducted on its behalf by Amgen and Kirin. K-A pays Amgen and Kirin for such services at negotiated rates. During the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , we earned revenues from K-A of   $31 million  ,   $65 million   and   $119 million  , respectively, for certain R D activities performed on K-A s behalf. These amounts are recognized as Other revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income. During the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , we recorded cost recoveries from K-A of   $7 million  ,   $90 million   and   $108 million  , respectively, related to certain third-party costs. These amounts are included in Research and development expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  As of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , we owed K-A   $69 million   and   $34 million  , respectively, which is included in Accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  
   F-21 

9. Available-for-sale investments 
  The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and estimated fair values of available-for-sale investments by type of security were as follows (in millions): 

F-22 

The fair values of available-for-sale investments by classification in the Consolidated Balance Sheets were as follows (in millions): 

Cash and cash equivalents in the table above excludes bank account cash of   $458 million   and   $406 million   as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
  The fair values of available-for-sale interest-bearing security investments by contractual maturity, except for mortgage- and asset-backed securities that do not have a single maturity date, were as follows (in millions): 

For the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , realized gains totaled   $306 million  ,   $132 million   and   $149 million  , respectively, and realized losses totaled   $367 million  ,   $208 million   and   $150 million  , respectively. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. 
  The unrealized losses on available-for-sale investments and their related fair values were as follows (in millions): 

F-23 

The primary objective of our investment portfolio is to enhance overall returns in an efficient manner while maintaining safety of principal, prudent levels of liquidity and acceptable levels of risk. Our investment policy limits interest-bearing security investments to certain types of debt and money market instruments issued by institutions with primarily investment-grade credit ratings, and it places restrictions on maturities and concentration by asset class and issuer. 
  We review our available-for-sale investments for other-than-temporary declines in fair value below our cost basis each quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the cost basis of an asset may not be recoverable. The evaluation is based on a number of factors, including the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been below our cost basis and adverse conditions related specifically to the security, including any changes to the credit rating of the security, and the intent to sell, or whether we will more likely than not be required to sell, the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Our assessment of whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future based on new developments or changes in assumptions related to that particular security. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, we believe the cost bases for our available-for-sale investments were recoverable in all material aspects. 
   
  10. Inventories 
  Inventories consisted of the following (in millions): 

F-24 

11. Property, plant and equipment 
  Property, plant and equipment consisted of the following (dollar amounts in millions): 

During the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , we recognized depreciation and amortization charges associated with our property, plant and equipment of   $619 million  ,   $727 million   and   $716 million  , respectively. 
   
  12. Goodwill and other intangible assets 
  Goodwill 
  Changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill were as follows (in millions): 

(1)   
    Consists of goodwill recognized on the acquisition dates of business combinations and subsequent adjustments to these amounts resulting from changes to the acquisition date fair values of net assets acquired in the business combinations recorded during their respective measurement periods.  
     Identifiable intangible assets 
  Identifiable intangible assets consisted of the following (in millions): 

F-25 

Developed product technology rights consist of rights related to marketed products acquired in business combinations. Licensing rights consist primarily of contractual rights acquired in business combinations to receive future milestones, royalties and profit sharing payments, capitalized payments to third parties for milestones related to regulatory approvals to commercialize products and up-front payments associated with royalty obligations for marketed products. Marketing-related intangible assets consist primarily of rights related to the sale and distribution of marketed products. R D technology rights consist of technology used in R D with alternative future uses. 
  IPR D consists of R D projects acquired in a business combination that are not complete at the time of acquisition due to remaining technological risks and/or lack of receipt of the required regulatory approvals. As of December 31, 2016, the projects include primarily AMG 899, acquired in the acquisition of Dezima (see Note 3, Business combinations) and oprozomib, acquired in the acquisition of Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Onyx) in 2013. 
  In November 2016, we announced that the European Commission (EC) granted marketing authorization for Parsabiv        acquired in the acquisition of KAI Pharmaceuticals in 2012, for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (sHPT) in adult patients with chronic kidney disease on hemodialysis. As a result, the   $240 million   carrying value of Parsabiv        was reclassified from IPR D to Developed product technology rights during 2016 and is being amortized over its useful life. 
  All IPR D projects have major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely and successful completion of development and commercialization of these product candidates, including our ability to confirm their safety and efficacy based on data from clinical trials, our ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals and our ability to successfully complete these tasks within budgeted costs. We are not permitted to market a human therapeutic without obtaining regulatory approvals, and such approvals require our completing clinical trials that demonstrate a product candidate is safe and effective. In addition, the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and private insurance plans, as well as competitive product launches, impact the revenues a product can generate. Consequently, the eventual realized value, if any, of these acquired IPR D projects may vary from their estimated fair values. We review IPR D projects for impairment annually, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable and upon the establishment of technological feasibility or regulatory approval. 
  During the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , we recognized amortization charges associated with our finite-lived intangible assets, included primarily in Cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Income, of   $1.5 billion  ,   $1.4 billion   and   $1.4 billion  , respectively. The total estimated amortization for each of the next five years for our intangible assets is   $1.3 billion  ,   $1.2 billion  ,   $1.1 billion  ,   $1.1 billion   and   $0.9 billion   in   2017  ,   2018  ,   2019  ,   2020   and   2021  , respectively. 
   
  13. Accrued liabilities 
  Accrued liabilities consisted of the following (in millions): 

F-26 

14. Financing arrangements 
  The carrying values and the fixed contractual coupon rates of our borrowings were as follows (in millions): 

F-27 

There are no material differences between the effective interest rates and coupon rates of any of our borrowings, except for the   4.563%   2048 Notes and the   4.663%   2051 Notes, which have effective interest rates of approximately   6.3%   and   5.6%  , respectively. 
  Under the terms of all of our outstanding notes (including debt exchange issuances discussed below), except our Other notes, in the event of a change-in-control triggering event, we may be required to purchase all or a portion of these debt securities at a price equal to   101%   of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, all of our outstanding notes, except for our floating rate notes,   0.41%   2023 Swiss franc Bonds and Other notes, may be redeemed at any time at our option, in whole or in part, at the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest and, except as discussed below, a make-whole amount, which is defined by the terms of the notes. Redeemable notes that were issued during 2016, 2015 and 2014 (discussed below), except the   1.25%   2017 Notes, may be redeemed without payment of the make-whole amount if redemption occurs during a specified period of time immediately prior to the maturity dates of the notes. Such time periods range from one to six months prior to the maturity date. 
  Debt repayments 
  In 2016, we repaid   $3.7 billion   of debt, including the remaining   $1.975 billion   of principal on our Term Loan Credit Facility (Term Loan), the   $750 million   aggregate principal amount of the   2.30%   2016 Notes and the   $1.0 billion   aggregate principal amount of the   2.50%   2016 Notes. In 2015, we repaid   $2.4 billion   of principal on our Term Loan. In 2014, we repaid   $5.6 billion   of debt, including   $500 million   of principal on our Term Loan. 
  Debt issuances 
  We issued debt and debt securities in various offerings during the years ended   December 31, 2016  , 2015 and 2014 including: 
     Debt exchange 
  During 2016, we completed a private offering to exchange portions of certain outstanding senior notes due 2037 through 2043 (collectively, the Old Notes), listed below, for new senior notes, consisting of principal amounts of   $1.4 billion   of   4.563%   2048 Notes and   $3.5 billion   of   4.663%   2051 Notes (collectively, the New Notes). 
  The following principal amounts of each series of Old Notes were validly tendered and subsequently canceled (in millions): 

The New Notes bear lower fixed coupon rates while requiring higher principal repayments on extended maturity dates, compared with the Old Notes that were exchanged. There were no other significant changes to the terms between the Old Notes and the New Notes. The exchange was accounted for as a debt modification, and there were no cash payments to or cash receipts from the note holders as a result of the exchange. Existing deferred financing costs associated with the Old Notes, as well as  
  
   F-28 

discounts associated with the New Notes aggregating   $801 million  , are being accreted over the term of the New Notes and recorded as Interest expense, net. Transaction costs of   $24 million   incurred for the exchange were expensed immediately in Interest and other income, net. 
  Term Loan Credit Facility 
  In 2013, we borrowed   $5.0 billion   under a Term Loan which bears interest at a floating rate based on   LIBOR   plus additional interest, initially   1%  , which could have varied based on the credit ratings assigned to our long-term debt by Standard   Poor s Financial Services LLC (S P) and Moody s Investor Service, Inc. (Moody s). A minimum of   $125 million   of the principal amount of the loan was to be repaid at the end of each quarter, with the balance due on October 1, 2018. The outstanding balance of this loan was repaid in whole during 2016 without penalty. 
  Interest rate swaps 
  To achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate debt, we entered into interest rate swap contracts that effectively converted a fixed-rate interest coupon for certain of our debt issuances to a floating LIBOR-based coupon over the life of the respective note. These interest rate swap contracts qualified and are designated as fair value hedges. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, we had   $6.65 billion   aggregate notional amount of interest rate swap contracts outstanding. The effective interest rates on these notes after giving effect to the related interest rate swap contracts and the related notional amounts of the contracts were as follows as of December 31, 2016 (dollar amounts in millions): 

Cross-currency swaps 
  In order to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with certain of our long-term notes denominated in foreign currencies, we entered into cross-currency swap contracts. The terms of these contracts effectively convert the interest payments and principal repayment on our   2.125%   2019 euro Notes,   1.25%   2022 euro Notes,   0.41%   2023 Swiss franc Bonds,   2.00%   2026 euro Notes,   5.50%   2026 pound sterling Notes and   4.00%   2029 pound sterling Notes from euros, pounds sterling and Swiss francs to U.S. dollars. These cross-currency swap contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges. For information regarding the terms of these contracts, see Note 17, Derivative instruments. 
  Shelf registration statements and other facilities 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , we have a commercial paper program that allows us to issue up to   $2.5 billion   of unsecured commercial paper to fund our working capital needs. At   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , we had   no   amounts outstanding under our commercial paper program. 
  In 2014, we entered into a   $2.5 billion   syndicated, unsecured, revolving credit agreement which is available for general corporate purposes or as a liquidity backstop to our commercial paper program. The commitments under the revolving credit agreement may be increased by up to   $500 million   with the agreement of the banks. Each bank which is a party to the agreement has an initial commitment term of   five   years. We extended this term by   one   year during 2016 and may extend the term for an additional year with the agreement of the banks. Annual commitment fees for this agreement are   0.09%   of the unused portion of the facility based on our current credit rating. Generally, we would be charged interest at LIBOR plus   1%   for any amounts borrowed under this facility. As of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  ,   no   amounts were outstanding under this facility. 
  In 2014, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC that allows us to issue unspecified amounts of debt securities; common stock; preferred stock; warrants to purchase debt securities, common stock, preferred stock or depositary shares; rights to purchase common stock or preferred stock; securities purchase contracts; securities purchase units; and depositary shares. Under this shelf registration statement, all of the securities available for issuance may be offered from time to time with terms to be determined at the time of issuance. This shelf registration statement expires on February 23, 2017, and is expected to be renewed before its expiration date. 
  
   F-29 

In 1997, we established a   $400 million   medium-term note program under which medium-term debt securities may be offered from time to time with terms to be determined at the time of issuance. As of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  ,   no   securities were outstanding under this medium-term note program. 
  Certain of our financing arrangements contain non-financial covenants. In addition, our revolving credit agreement includes a financial covenant with respect to the level of our borrowings in relation to our equity, as defined. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants under these arrangements as of   December 31, 2016  . 
  Contractual maturities of debt obligations 
  The aggregate contractual maturities of all borrowings due subsequent to   December 31, 2016  , are as follows (in millions): 

Interest costs 
  Interest costs are expensed as incurred, except to the extent such interest is related to construction in progress, in which case interest is capitalized. Interest expense, net, for the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , was   $1.3 billion  ,   $1.1 billion   and   $1.1 billion  , respectively. Interest costs capitalized for the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , were not material. Interest paid, including the ongoing impact and settlements of interest rate and cross-currency swap contracts, during the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , totaled   $1.2 billion  ,   $1.0 billion   and   $1.1 billion  , respectively. 
   
  15. Stockholders  equity 
  Stock repurchase program 
  Activity under our stock repurchase program, on a trade date basis, was as follows (in millions): 

As of December 31, 2016,   $4.1 billion  , remained available under our stock repurchase program. 
  Dividends 
  Our Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends per share of   $1.00  ,   $0.79  , and   $0.61   that were paid in each of the four quarters of 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. 
  Historically, each year we have declared dividends in December that were paid in the first quarter of the following fiscal year, and in March, July and October that were paid in the second, third and fourth quarters, respectively, of the same fiscal year. 
  Additionally, on December 20, 2016, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of   $1.15   per share of common stock, which will be paid on March 8, 2017, to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 15, 2017. 
  
   F-30 

Accumulated other comprehensive income 
  The components of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (AOCI) were as follows (in millions): 

Income tax expenses/benefits for unrealized gains and losses and the related reclassification adjustments to income for cash flow hedges were a   $68 million   benefit and   $46 million   expense in   2016  , a   $53 million   expense and   $53 million   benefit in   2015   and a   $104 million   expense and   $74 million   expense in   2014  , respectively. Income tax expenses/benefits for unrealized gains and losses and the related reclassification adjustments to income for available-for-sale securities were a   $9 million   benefit and   $11 million   expense for   2016  , a   $0 million   and   $18 million   expense in   2015   and a   $14 million   expense and   $0 million   in   2014  , respectively. 
  The reclassifications out of AOCI to earnings were as follows (in millions): 

F-31 

Other 
  In addition to common stock, our authorized capital includes   5 million   shares of preferred stock,   $0.0001   par value. As of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  ,   no   shares of preferred stock were issued or outstanding. 
   
  16. Fair value measurement 
  To estimate the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, we use valuation approaches within a hierarchy that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability based on market data obtained from sources independent of the Company. Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the Company s assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability and are developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. The fair value hierarchy is divided into three levels based on the source of inputs as follows: 
                   Level 1 
      
    Valuations based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access 
      Level 2 
      
    Valuations for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly, other than level 1 inputs 
      Level 3 
      
    Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement 

The availability of observable inputs can vary among the various types of financial assets and liabilities. To the extent that the valuation is based on models or inputs that are less observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. In certain cases, the inputs used for measuring fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, for financial statement disclosure purposes, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement is categorized is based on the lowest level of input used that is significant to the overall fair value measurement. 
  
   F-32 

The fair value of each major class of the Company s financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis was as follows (in millions): 

F-33 

The fair values of our U.S. Treasury securities, money market mutual funds and equity securities are based on quoted market prices in active markets with no valuation adjustment. 
  Most of our other government-related and corporate debt securities are investment grade with maturity dates of     five   years or less from the balance sheet date. Our other government-related debt securities portfolio is composed of securities with weighted-average credit ratings of A- or equivalent by S P, Moody s or Fitch Ratings Inc. (Fitch); and our corporate debt securities portfolio has a weighted-average credit rating of BBB+ or equivalent by S P or Moody s and A- by Fitch. We estimate the fair values of these securities by taking into consideration valuations obtained from third-party pricing services. The pricing services utilize industry standard valuation models, including both income- and market-based approaches, for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly, to estimate fair value. These inputs include reported trades of and broker/dealer quotes on the same or similar securities; issuer credit spreads; benchmark securities; and other observable inputs. 
  Our residential mortgage-, other mortgage- and asset-backed securities portfolio is composed entirely of senior tranches, with credit ratings of AAA by S P, Moody s or Fitch. We estimate the fair values of these securities by taking into consideration valuations obtained from third-party pricing services. The pricing services utilize industry standard valuation models, including both income- and market-based approaches, for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly, to estimate fair value. These inputs include reported trades of and broker/dealer quotes on the same or similar securities; issuer credit spreads; benchmark securities; prepayment/default projections based on historical data; and other observable inputs. 
  
   F-34 

We value our other short-term interest-bearing securities at amortized cost, which approximates fair value given their near- term maturity dates. 
  All of our foreign currency forward and option derivatives contracts have maturities of   three years   or less and all are with counterparties that have minimum credit ratings of A- or equivalent by S P or Moody s. We estimate the fair values of these contracts by taking into consideration valuations obtained from a third-party valuation service that utilizes an income-based industry standard valuation model for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly. These inputs include foreign currency exchange rates, LIBOR, swap rates and obligor credit default swap rates. In addition, inputs for our foreign currency option contracts include implied volatility measures. These inputs, where applicable, are at commonly quoted intervals. See Note 17, Derivative instruments. 
  Our cross-currency swap contracts are with counterparties that have minimum credit ratings of A- or equivalent by S P or Moody s. We estimate the fair values of these contracts by taking into consideration valuations obtained from a third-party valuation service that utilizes an income-based industry standard valuation model for which all significant inputs are observable either directly or indirectly. These inputs include foreign currency exchange rates, LIBOR, swap rates, obligor credit default swap rates and cross-currency basis swap spreads. See Note 17, Derivative instruments. 
  Our interest rate swap contracts are with counterparties that have minimum credit ratings of A- or equivalent by S P or Moody s. We estimate the fair values of these contracts by using an income-based industry standard valuation model for which all significant inputs were observable either directly or indirectly. These inputs included LIBOR, swap rates and obligor credit default swap rates. 
  Contingent consideration obligations 
  As a result of our business acquisitions, we incurred contingent consideration obligations, as discussed below. These contingent consideration obligations are recorded at their estimated fair values, and we revalue these obligations each reporting period until the related contingencies are resolved. The fair value measurements of these obligations are based on significant unobservable inputs related to product candidates acquired in business combinations and are reviewed quarterly by management in our R D and commercial sales organizations. These inputs include, as applicable, estimated probabilities and timing of achieving specified regulatory and commercial milestones and estimated annual sales. Significant changes that increase or decrease the probabilities of achieving the related regulatory and commercial events, shorten or lengthen the time required to achieve such events, or increase or decrease estimated annual sales would result in corresponding increases or decreases in the fair values of these obligations, as applicable. Changes in the fair values of contingent consideration obligations are recognized in Other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  Changes in the carrying amounts of contingent consideration obligations were as follows (in millions): 

As a result of our acquisition of Dezima in 2015, we are obligated to pay its former shareholders up to   $1.25 billion   of additional consideration contingent upon achieving certain development and sales-related milestones and low single-digit royalties on net product sales above a certain threshold. The estimated fair values of the contingent consideration obligations had an aggregate value of   $110 million   at acquisition. See Note 3, Business combinations. 
  As a result of our acquisition of Biovex Group Inc. (BioVex) in 2011, we are obligated to pay its former shareholders additional consideration contingent upon achieving separate regulatory and sales-related milestones with regard to IMLYGIC       , including a   $125 million   milestone payment made in 2015 as a result of the first commercial sale of this product in the United States following marketing approval. The remaining milestone payments of up to   $325 million   will become payable if certain sales thresholds are achieved within specified periods of time. 
  
   F-35 

We estimate the fair values of the obligations to the former shareholders of Dezima and BioVex by using probability-adjusted discounted cash flows and we review underlying key assumptions on a quarterly basis. There were no significant changes in the estimated aggregate fair values of the contingent consideration obligations for the years ended   December 31, 2016 and 2015  . 
  During the years ended   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , there were no transfers of assets or liabilities between fair value measurement levels, and there were no material remeasurements to the fair values of assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 
  Summary of the fair values of other financial instruments 
  Cash equivalents 
  The estimated fair values of cash equivalents approximate their carrying values due to the short-term nature of such financial instruments. 
  Borrowings 
  We estimated the fair value of our long-term debt (Level 2) by taking into consideration indicative prices obtained from a third-party financial institution that utilizes industry standard valuation models, including both income- and market-based approaches, for which all significant inputs are observable either directly or indirectly. These inputs include reported trades of and broker/dealer quotes on the same or similar securities; credit spreads; benchmark yields; foreign currency exchange rates, as applicable; and other observable inputs. As of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , the aggregate fair values of our long-term debt were   $36.5 billion   and   $33.1 billion  , respectively, and the carrying values were   $34.6 billion   and   $31.4 billion  , respectively. 
   
  17. Derivative instruments 
  The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks related to its business operations. To reduce our risks related to these exposures, we utilize or have utilized certain derivative instruments, including foreign currency forward, foreign currency option, cross-currency swap, forward interest rate and interest rate swap contracts. We do not use derivatives for speculative trading purposes. 
  Cash flow hedges 
  We are exposed to possible changes in the values of certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, associated primarily with our euro-denominated international product sales. Increases and decreases in the cash flows associated with our international product sales due to movements in foreign currency exchange rates are offset partially by corresponding increases and decreases in the cash flows from our international operating expenses resulting from these foreign currency exchange rate movements. To further reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our international product sales, we enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge a portion of our projected international product sales primarily   over a three-year time horizon  , with, at any given point in time, a higher percentage of nearer-term projected product sales being hedged than in successive periods. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , we had open foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts of   $3.4 billion  ,   $3.3 billion   and   $3.8 billion  , respectively, and open foreign currency option contracts with notional amounts of   $608 million  ,   $225 million   and   $271 million  , respectively. We have designated these foreign currency forward and foreign currency option contracts, which are primarily euro based, as cash flow hedges; and accordingly, we report the effective portions of the unrealized gains and losses on these contracts in AOCI in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and we reclassify them to earnings in the same periods during which the hedged transactions affect earnings. 
  To manage counterparty risk resulting from favorable movements in U.S. dollar/foreign currency exchange rates, we effectively terminated outstanding foreign currency forward and option contracts with a notional amount of   $2.3 billion   during the year ended December 31, 2015. We received   $340 million   from the counterparties, which was included in Net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. This amount was recorded in AOCI and is being recognized in Product sales in the Consolidated Statements of Income when the related international product sales affect earnings. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2015, we entered into new foreign currency forward and option contracts that hedge these forecasted international product sales. 
  To hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with certain of our long-term debt denominated in foreign currencies, including long-term debt issued during the year ended December 31, 2016, (see Note 14, Financing arrangements), we entered into cross-currency swap contracts. Under the terms of these contracts, we paid euros/pounds sterling  
  
   F-36 

and Swiss francs and received U.S. dollars for the notional amounts at the inception of the contracts; and based on these notional amounts, we exchange interest payments at fixed rates over the lives of the contracts by paying U.S. dollars and receiving euros, pounds sterling and Swiss francs. In addition, we will pay U.S. dollars to and receive euros, pounds sterling and Swiss francs from the counterparties at the maturities of the contracts for these same notional amounts. The terms of these contracts correspond to the related hedged debt, effectively converting the interest payments and principal repayment on the debt from euros, pounds sterling and Swiss francs to U.S. dollars. We have designated these cross-currency swap contracts as cash flow hedges, and accordingly, the effective portions of the unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are reported in AOCI in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and reclassified to earnings in the same periods during which the hedged debt affects earnings. 
   The notional amounts and interest rates of our cross-currency swaps are as follows (notional amounts in millions): 

In connection with the anticipated issuance of long-term fixed-rate debt, we occasionally enter into forward interest rate contracts in order to hedged the variability in cash flows due to changes in the applicable Treasury rate between the time we enter into these contracts and the time the related debt is issued. Gains and losses realized on such contracts, which were designated as cash flow hedges, are recognized in AOCI and amortized into earnings over the lives of the associated debt issuances. 
  The effective portions of the unrealized gain/(loss) recognized in other comprehensive income for our derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges were as follows (in millions): 

The locations in the Consolidated Statements of Income and the effective portions of the gain/(loss) reclassified out of AOCI into earnings for our derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges were as follows (in millions): 

No portions of our cash flow hedge contracts are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, and the gains and losses of the ineffective portions of these hedging instruments were not material for the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  . As of   December 31, 2016  , the amounts expected to be reclassified out of AOCI into earnings over the next 12 months are approximately   $80 million   of net gains on our foreign currency and cross-currency swap contracts and approximately   $2 million   of losses on forward interest rate contracts. 
  
   F-37 

Fair value hedges 
  To achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rates on our long-term debt, we entered into interest rate swap contracts that qualified and are designated as fair value hedges. The terms of these interest rate swap contracts correspond to the related hedged debt instruments and effectively convert a fixed interest rate coupon to a floating LIBOR-based coupon over the lives of the respective notes. As of December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we had interest rate swap agreements with aggregate notional amounts of   $6.65 billion   that hedge certain of our long-term debt issuances (see Note 14, Financing arrangements   Interest rate swaps). These contracts have rates that range from three-month LIBOR plus   0.4%   to three-month LIBOR plus   2.0%  . 
  For derivative instruments that qualify for and are designated as fair value hedges, we recognize in current earnings the unrealized gain or loss on the derivative resulting from the change in fair value during the period as well as the offsetting unrealized loss or gain of the hedged item resulting from the change in fair value during the period attributable to the hedged risk. During the year ended   December 31, 2016  , we included the unrealized   gains on the hedged debt   of   $34 million   in the same line item, Interest expense, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income, as the offsetting unrealized   losses   of   $34 million   on the related interest rate swap agreements. During the years ended   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , we included the unrealized   losses on the hedged debt   of   $48 million   and   $181 million   in the same line item, Interest expense, net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income, as the offsetting unrealized   gains   of   $48 million   and   $181 million   on the related interest rate swap agreements. 
  Derivatives not designated as hedges 
  To reduce our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations of certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are not designated as hedging transactions. These exposures are hedged on a month-to-month basis. As of   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , the total notional amounts of these foreign currency forward contracts were   $666 million  ,   $911 million   and   $875 million  , respectively. 
  The location in the Consolidated Statements of Income and the amount of gain/(loss) recognized in earnings for our derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments were as follows (in millions): 

F-38 

The fair values of derivatives included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets were as follows (in millions): 
                                       
    Derivative assets 
      
    Derivative liabilities 
      December 31, 2016 
    Balance Sheet location 
      
    Fair value 
      
    Balance Sheet location 
      
    Fair value 
      Derivatives designated as hedging instruments: 

Foreign currency contracts 
    Other current assets/ Other noncurrent assets 
      
    $ 
    203 

Accrued liabilities/ Other noncurrent liabilities 
      
    $ 
    4 
      
      Cross-currency swap contracts 
    Other current assets/ Other noncurrent assets 

Accrued liabilities/ Other noncurrent liabilities 
      
    523 
      
      Interest rate swap contracts 
    Other current assets/ Other noncurrent assets 
      
    41 

Accrued liabilities/ Other noncurrent liabilities 
      
    7 
      
      Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments 

244 

534 
      
      Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments: 

Foreign currency contracts 
    Other current assets 

Accrued liabilities 

Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 

Total derivatives 

$ 
    244 

$ 
    534 

Derivative assets 
      
    Derivative liabilities 
      December 31, 2015 
    Balance Sheet location 
      
    Fair value 
      
    Balance Sheet location 
      
    Fair value 
      Derivatives designated as hedging instruments: 

Foreign currency contracts 
    Other current assets/ Other noncurrent assets 
      
    $ 
    142 

Accrued liabilities/ Other noncurrent liabilities 
      
    $ 
    7 
      
      Cross-currency swap contracts 
    Other current assets/ Other noncurrent assets 

Accrued liabilities/ Other noncurrent liabilities 
      
    250 
      
      Interest rate swap contracts 
    Other current assets/ Other noncurrent assets 
      
    71 

Accrued liabilities/ Other noncurrent liabilities 
      
    3 
      
      Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments 

213 

260 
      
      Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments: 

Foreign currency contracts 
    Other current assets 

Accrued liabilities 
      
    1 
      
      Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 

1 
      
      Total derivatives 

$ 
    213 

$ 
    261 

Our derivative contracts that were in liability positions as of   December 31, 2016  , contain certain credit-risk-related contingent provisions that would be triggered if: (i) we were to undergo a change in control and (ii) our or the surviving entity s creditworthiness deteriorates, which is generally defined as having either a credit rating that is below investment grade or a materially weaker creditworthiness after the change in control. If these events were to occur, the counterparties would have the right, but not the obligation, to close the contracts under early-termination provisions. In such circumstances, the counterparties could request immediate settlement of these contracts for amounts that approximate the then current fair values of the contracts. In addition, our derivative contracts are not subject to any type of master netting arrangement, and amounts due to or from a counterparty under these contracts may only be offset against other amounts due to or from the same counterparty if an event of default or termination, as defined, were to occur. 
  The cash flow effects of our derivative contracts for each of the three years ended   December 31, 2016  , are included within Net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
  
   F-39 

18. Contingencies and commitments 
  Contingencies 
  In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in various legal proceedings, government investigations and other matters that are complex in nature and have outcomes that are difficult to predict. (See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business may be affected by litigation and government investigations.) We describe our legal proceedings and other matters that are significant or that we believe could become significant in this Note. 
  We record accruals for loss contingencies to the extent that we conclude it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the related loss can be reasonably estimated. We evaluate, on a quarterly basis, developments in legal proceedings and other matters that could cause an increase or decrease in the amount of the liability that has been accrued previously. 
  Our legal proceedings range from cases brought by a single plaintiff to class actions with thousands of putative class members. These legal proceedings, as well as other matters, involve various aspects of our business and a variety of claims including but not limited to patent infringement, marketing, pricing and trade practices and securities law some of which present novel factual allegations and/or unique legal theories.     In each of the matters described in this filing, plaintiffs seek an award of a not-yet-quantified amount of damages or an amount that is not material. In addition, a number of the matters pending against us are at very early stages of the legal process (which in complex proceedings of the sort faced by us often extend for several years). As a result, none of the matters pending against us described in this filing have progressed sufficiently through discovery and/or development of important factual information and legal issues to enable us to estimate a range of possible loss, if any, or such amounts are not material.     While it is not possible to accurately predict or determine the eventual outcomes of these matters, an adverse determination in one or more of these matters currently pending could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
  Certain of our legal proceedings and other matters are discussed below: 
  PCSK9 Antibody Patent Litigation 
  U.S. Patent Litigation Sanofi/Regeneron 
  On October 17, 2014, Amgen initiated a series of lawsuits in the U.S. District Court of Delaware (the Delaware District Court) against Sanofi, Aventisub LLC, formerly doing business as Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc., and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Regeneron) for patent infringement. On December 15, 2014, these lawsuits were consolidated by the Delaware District Court into a single case against Sanofi, Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC and Aventisub LLC, formerly doing business as Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (collectively, Sanofi) and Regeneron, addressing   seven   of our patents: U.S. Patent Nos. 8,563,698; 8,829,165 (the  165 Patent); 8,859,741 (the  741 Patent); 8,871,913; 8,871,914; 8,883,983; and 8,889,834. These patents describe and claim monoclonal antibodies to proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9). By its complaints, Amgen sought an injunction to prevent the infringing manufacture, use and sale of Sanofi and Regeneron s alirocumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting PCSK9. On January 29, 2016, the Delaware District Court granted Amgen s motion to amend the complaint to add Amgen Manufacturing, Limited and Amgen USA Inc. as plaintiffs and to add the allegation that defendants  infringement of Amgen s patents is willful. 
  On February 22, 2016, the Delaware District Court entered a stipulated order finding alirocumab and the drug product containing it, PRALUENT       , infringe certain of Amgen s patents, including claims 2, 7, 9, 15, 19 and 29 of the  165 Patent and claim 7 of the  741 Patent. On March 18, 2016, the Delaware District Court entered judgment in favor of Amgen following a five-day jury trial and a unanimous jury verdict that these patent claims from the  165 Patent and the  741 Patent are all valid. On April 15, 2016, Sanofi and Regeneron filed post-trial motions seeking a new trial and judgment as a matter of law. On January 3, 2017, the Delaware District Court denied Sanofi and Regeneron s post-trial motions seeking a new trial and for judgment as a matter of law, and on January 5, 2017, granted Amgen s motion for a permanent injunction prohibiting the infringing manufacture, use, sale, offer for sale or import of alirocumab in the United States. On January 9, 2017, the Delaware District Court denied Sanofi and Regeneron s motion to stay the injunction pending appeal, but ordered that the injunction will not take effect for forty-five days (until February 21, 2017) to give Sanofi and Regeneron an opportunity to seek a stay from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the  Federal Circuit Court ). 
  On January 12, 2017, Sanofi and Regeneron filed an appeal of the judgment and the permanent injunction to the Federal Circuit Court. Following a motion by Sanofi and Regeneron, the Federal Circuit Court ordered an expedited briefing schedule for the appeal and, on February 8, 2017, entered a stay of the permanent injunction during the pendency of the appeal. 

F-40 

Patent Disputes in the European Region 
  On February 24, 2016, the European Patent Office (EPO) granted European Patent No. 2,215,124 (EP 2,215,124) to Amgen. This patent describes and claims monoclonal antibodies to PCSK9 and methods of treatment. On February 24, 2016, Sanofi filed an opposition to the patent in the EPO seeking to invalidate it. In November 2016, Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH, Sanofi-Aventis Groupe S.A. and Sanofi Winthrop Industrie S.A. filed a joint opposition against Amgen s patent, and each of Eli Lilly and Company, Regeneron, and Strawman Ltd., also filed oppositions to Amgen s patent. Amgen s response is due by May 10, 2017. 
  On March 24, 2016, Amgen was served with a patent revocation action in the Patent Court of the Chancery Division of the High Court of Justice of England and Wales by Pfizer seeking to revoke European Patent (UK) No. 2,215,124, the patent issuing in the United Kingdom from EP 2,215,124. On November 16, 2016, following Pfizer s announcement that it was terminating its PCSK9 program, the court entered an order staying the case by consent of the parties. 
  We are also involved in and expect future involvement in additional disputes regarding our PCSK9 patents in other jurisdictions and regions, including matters filed against us and that we have filed in the United Kingdom, Germany and France. 
  AMJEVITA        Patent Litigation 
  On August 4, 2016, AbbVie Inc. and AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd. (collectively, AbbVie) filed a lawsuit in the Delaware District Court against Amgen Inc. and Amgen Manufacturing, Ltd. (collectively, Amgen), alleging infringement of U.S Patent Nos. 8,663,945; 8,911,964; 8,916,157; 8,961,973; 8,986,693; 9,096,666; 9,220,781; 9,272,041; 9,359,434; and 9,365,645. AbbVie seeks an injunction prohibiting Amgen from commercializing ABP 501 (also known as AMJEVITA       , a biosimilar to AbbVie s HUMIRA       ) prior to the expiration of the patents-in-suit and compelling Amgen to provide AbbVie with at least 180 days-notice of first commercial marketing. On September 13, 2016, Amgen responded to the complaint denying AbbVie s allegations and counterclaimed, seeking judgment that the patents-in-suit are invalid and/or not infringed by Amgen. On September 23, 2016, the FDA approved AMJEVITA       . On October 7, 2016, AbbVie responded to Amgen s counterclaims. Trial is scheduled to begin November 4, 2019. 
  Sensipar        Patent Litigation 
  Amgen filed   13   separate lawsuits in the Delaware District Court for infringement of our U.S. Patent No. 9,375,405 (the  405 Patent) against: (1) Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. and Aurobindo Pharma USA, Inc., (2) MicroLabs Ltd. and Micro Labs USA, Inc., (3) Watson Laboratories, Inc., Actavis, Inc. and Actavis Pharma, Inc., and (4) Cipla Limited and Cipla USA, Inc. (collectively, Cipla), each on September 22, 2016; (5) Strides Pharma Global PTE Limited and Strides Pharma, Inc., and (6) Sun Pharma Global FZE and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, Inc., each on September 29, 2016; (7) Dr. Reddy s Laboratories, Ltd., and Dr. Reddy s Laboratories, Inc., and (8) Ajanta Pharma Limited and Ajanta Pharma USA, Inc., each on October 5, 2016; (9) Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC, Amneal Pharmaceuticals of New York, LLC, and Amneal Pharmaceuticals Co. India Private Limited, (10) Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp., (collectively, Apotex), (11) Hetero USA Inc., Hetero Labs Ltd. and Hetero Labs Ltd. Unit V, and (12) Breckenridge Pharmaceutical, Inc., each on October 11, 2016; and (13) Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Mylan Inc. (collectively, Mylan) on February 3, 2017. The  405 Patent is entitled  Rapid Dissolution Formulation of a Calcium Receptor-Active Compound  and expires in 2026. In each of the   13   lawsuits, Amgen seeks an order of the Delaware District Court making any U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval of the defendants  generic versions of Sensipar        effective no earlier than the expiration of the  405 Patent. In each lawsuit, all defendants except Mylan have responded to the complaint denying infringement and seeking judgment that the  405 Patent is invalid and/or not infringed. 
  KYPROLIS        Patent Litigation 
  Our subsidiary Onyx Therapeutics, Inc. (Onyx Therapeutics), filed   four   separate lawsuits in the Delaware District Court against: Cipla, on October 24, 2016; Sagent Pharmaceuticals, Inc., on October 26, 2016; Breckenridge Pharmaceutical, Inc., on October 27, 2016; and Fresenius Kabi, USA LLC, Fresenius Kabi USA, Inc., Fresenius Pharmaceuticals Holding, Inc., and Fresenius Kabi Oncology Limited, on November 1, 2016; each for infringing U.S. Patent Nos. 7,232,818; 7,417,042; 7,491,704; 7,737,112; 8,129,346; 8,207,125; 8,207,126; 8,207,127; and 8,207,297. By joint stipulation of the parties, Fresenius Pharmaceuticals Holding, Inc. and Fresenius Kabi Oncology Limited were subsequently dismissed from that lawsuit. Onyx Therapeutics also filed   four   separate lawsuits in the Delaware District Court against: MSN Laboratories Private Limited and MSN Pharmaceuticals, Inc., on October 26, 2016; Dr. Reddy s Laboratories, Inc. and Dr. Reddy s Laboratories, Ltd., on November 1, 2016; Qilu Pharma, Inc. and Qilu Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. (collectively, Qilu) on November 1, 2016; and Apotex, on November 8, 2016; each for infringing U.S. Patent No. 7,737,112. Onyx Therapeutics also filed a separate lawsuit in the Delaware District Court against InnoPharma, Inc. on November 7, 2016 for infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 7,417,042; 7,737,112; and 8,207,297. These lawsuits are based on Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) that seek approval to market generic versions of KYPROLIS        before expiration  
  
   F-41 

of the asserted patent or patents. In each lawsuit, Onyx Therapeutics seeks an order of the Delaware District Court making any FDA approval of the defendant s ANDA effective no earlier than the expiration of all asserted patents. Responses to the complaints have been filed by defendants alleging non-infringement and invalidity of the patents in all the lawsuits. 
  Other Biosimilars Patent Litigations 
  We have filed a number of lawsuits against manufacturers of products that purport to be biosimilars of certain of our products. In each case, our complaint alleges that the manufacturer s actions infringe certain patents we hold and that the manufacturer has failed to comply with certain provisions of the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (BPCIA). 
  Sandoz Pegfilgrastim Litigation 
  On May 12, 2016, Amgen filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (the California Northern District Court) against Sandoz Inc., Sandoz International GmbH and Sandoz GmbH (collectively Sandoz) and Lek Pharmaceuticals d.d. for infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 8,940,878 and 5,824,784 in accordance with the patent provisions of the BPCIA. On June 23, 2016, Sandoz responded to the complaint, denying infringement and seeking judgment that the patents-in-suit are invalid and/or not infringed. On December 7, 2016, by joint stipulation of the parties, the California Northern District Court dismissed from the case all claims and counterclaims related to U.S. Patent No. 5,824,784. Trial is scheduled to begin December 18, 2017. 
  Sandoz Filgrastim Litigation 
  On October 24, 2014, Amgen and Amgen Manufacturing, Limited (collectively Amgen) filed a lawsuit in the California Northern District Court against Sandoz for infringement of our U.S. Patent No. 6,162,427 (the  427 Patent) and various state law claims. The lawsuit stems from Sandoz filing an application for FDA licensure of a filgrastim product as biosimilar to NEUPOGEN        under the BPCIA, while having deliberately failed to comply with the BPCIA s disclosure requirement to Amgen as the reference product sponsor. By its complaint, Amgen sought, among other remedies, an injunction to cease Sandoz s unauthorized reliance on Amgen s BLA for filgrastim, including an order compelling Sandoz to suspend FDA review of their application until there is restitution for its non-compliance with the BPCIA, an injunction to prevent Sandoz from commercially marketing the biosimilar product until Amgen is restored to the position it would have been in had Sandoz met their obligations under the BPCIA and an injunction to prevent Sandoz from infringing, or inducing any infringing use of, filgrastim. 
  On March 19, 2015, the California Northern District Court issued an order dismissing with prejudice Amgen s state law claims, and entered judgment in favor of Sandoz Inc. on its cross-motion for partial judgment on the pleadings. The order also denied Amgen s motion for a preliminary injunction, as well as Amgen s motion for partial judgment on the pleadings. On a joint motion of the parties, on March 25, 2015, the California Northern District Court entered final judgment on the claims and counterclaims decided by the court s March 19 order. The remaining patent infringement claim, counterclaim and defenses were stayed by the court pending appeal. On March 25, 2015, Amgen appealed both the judgment in favor of Sandoz Inc. and the denial of Amgen s motion for preliminary injunction to the Federal Circuit Court. On May 5, 2015, the Federal Circuit Court entered an injunction prohibiting Sandoz Inc. from marketing, selling, offering for sale, or importing into the United States Sandoz s FDA-approved Zarxio        biosimilar product until the Federal Circuit Court resolved the appeal. 
  On July 21, 2015, the Federal Circuit Court affirmed the district court s dismissal of Amgen s state law claims and directed the California Northern District Court to enter judgment on Sandoz s counter-claims consistent with the Federal Circuit s interpretation of the BPCIA. The Federal Circuit Court concluded that the only remedies available for a biosimilar applicant s failure to provide its BLA by the statutory deadline is to bring a patent infringement claim and seek those patent remedies provided by the statute. The Federal Circuit Court also concluded that a biosimilar applicant must give 180-day advance notice of first commercial marketing after the FDA has licensed the biosimilar product. Accordingly, the Federal Circuit Court entered an order that its previously entered injunction be extended through September 2, 2015 (180 days from Sandoz Inc. s notice given after FDA approval), and remanded for the district court to consider the patent infringement claim and counterclaims. Sandoz launched Zarxio        in the United States on September 3, 2015. 
  On August 20, 2015, Amgen and Sandoz each petitioned the Federal Circuit Court requesting rehearing en banc of various aspects of the Federal Circuit Court opinion on which the other had prevailed. On October 16, 2015, the Federal Circuit Court denied each of Amgen s and Sandoz s petitions for rehearing en banc. 
  On September 8, 2015, the California Northern District Court granted the parties  joint motion to lift the stay of the case, allowing the remaining patent infringement claim, counterclaim and defenses to proceed. Amgen filed a first supplemental and amended complaint on October 15, 2015, adding to the lawsuit Sandoz s infringement of U.S. Patent No. 8,940,878, which covers  
  
   F-42 

methods of purifying proteins. On August 4, 2016, the California Northern District Court entered an order construing patent claim terms of the  427 Patent and our U.S. Patent No 8,940,878. Trial is scheduled to begin December 18, 2017. 
  On February 16, 2016, Sandoz filed a petition for certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court seeking review of the Federal Circuit Court ruling concluding that a biosimilar applicant must give 180-day advance notice of first marketing and that notice can be given only after the FDA has licensed the biosimilar product. On March 21, 2016, Amgen filed a brief in opposition to Sandoz s petition and a conditional cross-petition for certiorari requesting that the U.S. Supreme Court also review the Federal Circuit Court s ruling that the only remedy available when a biosimilar applicant refuses to provide its BLA is to bring a patent infringement claim. On January 13, 2017, the U.S. Supreme Court granted certiorari on both Sandoz s petition and Amgen s conditional cross-petition. 
  Sandoz Etanercept Litigation 
  On February 26, 2016, two affiliates of Amgen Inc. (Immunex Corporation and Amgen Manufacturing, Limited (collectively Amgen)), along with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. (Roche), filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey (the New Jersey District Court) against Sandoz. This lawsuit stems from Sandoz s submission of an application for FDA licensure of an etanercept product as biosimilar to Amgen s ENBREL. Amgen and Roche have asserted infringement of   five   patents: U.S. Patent Nos. 8,063,182; 8,163,522; 7,915,225; 8,119,605; and 8,722,631. By its complaint, Amgen and Roche are seeking an injunction to prohibit Sandoz from commercializing its biosimilar etanercept product in the United States prior to the expiry of such patents. Responses have been filed by all Sandoz defendants denying infringement and/or asserting that the patents at issue are valid. 
  On August 11, 2016, and subject to the terms of a confidential stipulation, the New Jersey District Court entered a preliminary injunction prohibiting Sandoz from making, using, importing, selling or offering for sale Sandoz s etanercept product. Trial is scheduled to start on April 17, 2018. On August 30, 2016, the FDA approved Sandoz s Erelzi       , a biosimilar to ENBREL. 
  Apotex Pegfilgrastim/Filgrastim Litigation 
  On August 6, 2015, Amgen filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida (the Florida Southern District Court) against Apotex for infringement of our U.S. Patent Nos. 8,952,138 (the  138 Patent) and 5,824,784 (the  784 Patent) in accordance with the patent provisions of the BPCIA and for a declaration that Apotex s pre-licensure notice of commercial marketing is legally ineffective. This lawsuit stems from Apotex s submission of an application for FDA licensure of a pegfilgrastim product as biosimilar to Amgen s Neulasta       . By its complaint, Amgen seeks, among other remedies, an injunction prohibiting Apotex from infringing the  138 and  784 patents and enjoining Apotex from commencing commercial marketing of any biosimilar pegfilgrastim product until a date that is at least 180 days after Apotex provides legally effective notice to Amgen. Apotex answered the complaint on October 5, 2015, denying patent infringement, alleging that the patents are invalid, alleging sham litigation in violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act, seeking a declaration that the  138 patent is unenforceable for patent misuse and seeking a declaration on the interpretation of the BPCIA commercial notice provision. 
  On October 2, 2015, Amgen filed a second lawsuit in the Florida Southern District Court against Apotex for infringement of the  138 Patent and the  427 Patent and in accordance with the patent provisions of the BPCIA and for a declaration that Apotex s pre-licensure notice of commercial marketing is legally ineffective. This lawsuit stems from Apotex s submission of an application for FDA licensure of a filgrastim product as biosimilar to NEUPOGEN       . By its complaint, Amgen seeks, amongst other remedies, an injunction prohibiting Apotex from infringing the  138 and  427 patents and enjoining Apotex from commencing commercial marketing of any biosimilar filgrastim product until a date that is at least 180 days after Apotex provides legally effective notice to Amgen. On November 3, 2015, the Florida Southern District Court consolidated the   two   lawsuits into a single case. 
  On December 9, 2015, the Florida Southern District Court granted Amgen s motion for preliminary injunction prohibiting Apotex from commercializing its biosimilar pegfilgrastim product until a date that is at least 180 days after Apotex provides legally effective commercial notice to Amgen. On July 5, 2016, the Federal Circuit Court affirmed the Florida Southern District Court injunction, holding that the 180-day notice of commercial marketing is mandatory under the BPCIA and can be given only post-FDA licensure of the biosimilar product. On September 9, 2016, Apotex petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court for certiorari, seeking review of the Federal Circuit Court holding. On December 12, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court denied Apotex s petition for certiorari. 
  On June 24,       2016, the Florida Southern District Court issued a further claim construction decision granting the motion for summary judgment of no literal infringement of the  138 Patent filed by Apotex and denying the motion with respect to no infringement under the doctrine of equivalents. On June 15, 2016, the Florida Southern District Court dismissed without prejudice all claims and counterclaims related to the  427 Patent and the  784 Patent on the parties  joint stipulation of dismissal. In a separate order that same day, the Florida Southern District Court also dismissed without prejudice all counterclaims related to unlawful  
  
   F-43 

monopolization in violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act on the parties  joint stipulation of dismissal. On July 11, 2016, trial began on infringement of the  138 Patent and Apotex s counterclaims and defenses. On September 16, 2016, the Florida Southern District Court entered final judgment that Apotex s process of manufacturing its filgrastim and pegfilgrastim products do not infringe the  138 Patent, dismissing without prejudice Apotex s remaining invalidity counterclaim for patent invalidity, and making permanent the injunction compelling Apotex to provide 180-day advance notice of first commercial marketing of its filgrastim and pegfilgrastim products if and when the FDA approves these products. On October 3, 2016, Amgen filed an appeal of the final judgment to the Federal Circuit Court. 
  Hospira Epoetin Alfa Litigation 
  On September 18, 2015, Amgen filed a lawsuit in the Delaware District Court against Hospira, Inc. (Hospira), a subsidiary of Pfizer, for infringement of Amgen s U.S. Patent Nos. 5,856,298 (the  298 Patent) and 5,756,349 (the  349 Patent) in accordance with the patent provisions of the BPCIA and for a declaration that Hospira has failed to comply with certain requirements of the BPCIA. This lawsuit stems from the submission by Hospira under the BPCIA of an application for FDA licensure of an epoetin product as biosimilar to Amgen s EPOGEN       . Amgen seeks a declaration that the BPCIA requires that Hospira provide Amgen with notice of commercial marketing 180 days before it first begins commercial marketing of any biosimilar epoetin product and that this notice can be given only after the FDA has licensed Hospira s biosimilar product. By its complaint, Amgen seeks, among other remedies, an injunction prohibiting Hospira from using or selling infringing cells and/or product manufactured during the  298 or the  349 patent terms and enjoining Hospira from commencing commercial marketing of any biosimilar epoetin product until a date that is at least 180 days after Hospira provides legally effective notice to Amgen. 
  On November 12, 2015, Hospira filed a motion to dismiss the   one   count of Amgen s complaint which seeks a declaration that Hospira has failed to comply with the notice requirements of the BPCIA. On August 5, 2016, the Delaware District Court denied the motion filed by Hospira to dismiss Amgen s complaint. On August 19, 2016, Hospira responded to the complaint denying the allegations of the First Amended Complaint and seeking judgment that the patents-in-suit are invalid and not infringed by Hospira. On August 15, 2016, Amgen moved to amend the First Amended Complaint to add additional bases for infringement of our  349 Patent and to add   three   additional third-party defendants. On October 3, 2016, the Delaware District Court granted-in-part and denied-in-part Amgen s motion to amend, permitting Amgen to add the additional bases for infringement but not the additional parties to the existing lawsuit. On January 23, 2017, the Delaware District Court entered an order construing the claims of the  349 patent and the  298 patent and holding that   two   claims of the  298 patent are invalid for failure to properly narrow the claim from which they depend. The Delaware District Court has set a September 18, 2017 trial date. 
  On June 3, 2016, Amgen filed a notice of appeal seeking review of the Delaware District Court s order that Hospira need not provide Amgen discovery of certain of its manufacturing processes that Hospira withheld during the BPCIA dispute resolution process. On August 5, 2016, the Federal Circuit Court denied Hospira s motion to dismiss Amgen s appeal. 
  Onyx Litigation 
  Between August 28, 2013 and September 16, 2013,   nine   plaintiffs filed purported class action lawsuits against Onyx, its directors, Amgen and Arena Acquisition Company (Arena), and unnamed  John Doe  defendants in connection with Amgen s acquisition of Onyx.   Seven   of those purported class actions were brought in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of San Mateo (the San Mateo County Superior Court), captioned   Lawrence I. Silverstein and Phil Rosen v. Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., et al.   (August 28, 2013) (   Silverstein   ),   Laura Robinson v. Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., et al.   (originally filed in the Superior Court for the County of San Francisco on August 28, 2013, and re-filed in the San Mateo County Superior Court on August 29, 2013) (   Robinson   ),   John Solak v. Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., et al.   (August 30, 2013) (   John Solak   ),   Louisiana Municipal Police Employees  Retirement System and Hubert Chow v. Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., et al.   (September 3, 2013) (   Louisiana Municipal   ),   Laurine Jonopulos v. Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., et al.   (September 4, 2013) (   Jonopulos   ),   Clifford G. Martin v. Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., et al  . (September 9, 2013) (   Martin   ) and   Merrill L. Magowan v. Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al.   (September 9, 2013) (   Magowan   ). The eighth and ninth purported class actions were brought in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, captioned   Mark D. Smilow, IRA v. Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc., et al.   (August 29, 2013) (   Smilow   ) and   William L. Fitzpatric v. Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., et al.   (September 16, 2013) (   Fitzpatric   ). On September 5, 2013, the plaintiff in the   John Solak   case dismissed his case. On September 10, 2013, the plaintiff in the   Smilow   case dismissed his case. On September 10, 2013, plaintiffs in the   Silverstein   and   Louisiana Municipal   cases filed an amended complaint alleging substantially the same claims and seeking substantially the same relief as in their individual purported class action lawsuits. Each of the lawsuits alleges that the Onyx director defendants breached their fiduciary duties to Onyx shareholders, and that the other defendants aided and abetted such breaches, by seeking to sell Onyx through an allegedly unfair process and for an unfair price and on unfair terms. The   Magowan   and   Fitzpatric   complaints and the amended complaint filed in the   Silverstein   and   Louisiana Municipal   cases also alleged that the individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties with respect to the contents of the tender  
  
   F-44 

offer solicitation material. Each of the lawsuits sought, among other things,     rescission of the merger agreement and attorneys  fees and costs, and certain of the lawsuits sought other relief. The   Silverstein  ,   Robinson  ,   Louisiana     Municipal   and   Jonopulos   cases were designated as  complex  and assigned to the Honorable Marie S. Weiner of the San Mateo County Superior Court, who subsequently entered an order consolidating the   Silverstein  ,   Robinson  ,   Louisiana     Municipal  ,   Jonopulos  ,   Martin   and   Magowan   cases (the Consolidated Cases). On October 31, 2013, the plaintiffs in the Consolidated Cases filed a consolidated class action complaint seeking certification of a class and alleging breach of fiduciary duties of loyalty and good faith against the Onyx directors and aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duties against Onyx. The complaint sought certification of a class of all Onyx shareholders, damages (including pre- and post-judgment interest), attorneys  fees and expenses plus other relief. The plaintiffs in the Consolidated Cases simultaneously filed a notice of dismissal without prejudice of Amgen and Arena. On January 9, 2014, the court sustained a demurrer without leave to amend as to Onyx. The plaintiff in the   Fitzpatric   case dismissed his case on August 22, 2014. On January 30, 2015, the court granted class certification and appointed Mr. Rosen as class representative in the Consolidated Cases. Following a March 2, 2016, notice of settlement filed by the plaintiffs and the Onyx director defendants, on November 21, 2016, the San Mateo Superior Court entered an order granting final approval of the settlement for an amount immaterial to Amgen. 
  State Derivative Litigation 
  The   three   state stockholder derivative complaints filed against Amgen, Kevin W. Sharer, George J. Morrow, Dennis M. Fenton, Brian M. McNamee, Roger M. Perlmutter, David Baltimore, Gilbert S. Omenn, Judith C. Pelham, Frederick W. Gluck, Jerry D. Choate, J. Paul Reason, Frank J. Biondi, Jr., Leonard D. Schaeffer, Frank C. Herringer, Richard D. Nanula, Willard H. Dere, Edward V. Fritzky, Franklin P. Johnson, Jr. and Donald B. Rice as defendants (the State Defendants) on May 1, 2007 (  Larson v. Sharer, et al.  ,     Anderson v. Sharer, et al.  ), and August 13, 2007 (  Weil v. Sharer, et al.  ) in the Superior Court of the State of California, Ventura County (the Ventura County Superior Court) were consolidated by the Ventura County Superior Court under   one   action captioned   Larson v. Sharer, et al  . The consolidated complaint was filed on July 5, 2007. The complaint alleges that the State Defendants breached their fiduciary duties, wasted corporate assets, were unjustly enriched and violated the California Corporations Code. Plaintiffs allege that the State Defendants failed to disclose and/or misrepresented results of Aranesp        clinical studies, marketed both Aranesp        and EPOGEN        for off-label uses and that these actions or inactions caused stockholders to suffer damages. The complaints also allege insider trading by the State Defendants. The plaintiffs seek treble damages based on various causes of action, reformed corporate governance, equitable and/or injunctive relief, restitution, disgorgement of profits, benefits and other compensation, and legal costs. 
  An amended consolidated complaint was filed on March 13, 2008, adding Anthony Gringeri as a State Defendant and removing the causes of action for insider selling and misappropriation of information, violation of California Corporations Code Section 25402 and violation of California Corporations Code Section 25403. On July 14, 2008, the Ventura County Superior Court dismissed without prejudice the consolidated state derivative class action. On July 24, 2013, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint asserting additional grounds for the defendants  alleged breaches of fiduciary duty. By stipulation of the parties, the case was stayed pending resolution of the   In re Amgen Inc. Securities Litigation   action. Final settlement by the parties of the   In re Amgen Inc. Securities Litigation   action     was approved by the court in October 2016, and on February 10, 2017, the Ventura County Superior Court lifted the stay in   Larson v. Sharer, et al  . 
  Federal Derivative Litigation 
  On May 7, 2007, the stockholder derivative lawsuit of   Durgin v. Sharer, et al.  , was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California (the California Central District Court) and named Amgen, Kevin W. Sharer, George J. Morrow, Dennis M. Fenton, Brian M. McNamee, Roger M. Perlmutter, David Baltimore, Gilbert S. Omenn, Judith C. Pelham, Frederick W. Gluck, Jerry D. Choate, J. Paul Reason, Frank J. Biondi, Jr., Leonard D. Schaeffer, Frank C. Herringer, Richard D. Nanula, Edward V. Fritzky and Franklin P. Johnson, Jr. as defendants. The complaint alleges the same claims and requests the same relief as in the   three   state stockholder derivative complaints now consolidated as   Larson v. Sharer, et al  . On October 10, 2016, the parties filed a joint stipulation with the California Central District Court lift the stay in of   Durgin v. Sharer, et al.   On Amgen s motion, the court dismissed the complaint with prejudice on January 10, 2017. 
  ERISA Litigation 
  On August 20, 2007, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) class action lawsuit of   Harris v. Amgen Inc., et al.  , was filed in the California Central District Court and named Amgen, Kevin W. Sharer, Frank J. Biondi, Jr., Jerry Choate, Frank C. Herringer, Gilbert S. Omenn, David Baltimore, Judith C. Pelham, Frederick W. Gluck, Leonard D. Schaeffer, Jacqueline Allred, Raul Cermeno, Jackie Crouse, Lori Johnston, Michael Kelly and Charles Bell as defendants. Plaintiffs claim that Amgen and the individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties and their duty of loyalty by continuing to offer the Amgen stock fund as an investment option in the Amgen Retirement and Savings Plan and the Retirement and Savings Plan for Amgen Manufacturing, Limited (the Plans) despite the alleged off-label promotion of both Aranesp        and EPOGEN        and despite a number of allegedly  
  
   F-45 

undisclosed study results that allegedly demonstrated safety concerns in patients using ESAs. Plaintiffs also allege that defendants breached their obligations under ERISA by not disclosing to plan participants the alleged off-label marketing and study results. On February 4, 2008, the California Central District Court dismissed the complaint with prejudice as to plaintiff Harris, who had filed claims against Amgen. The claims alleged by the second plaintiff, Ramos, were also dismissed but the court granted the plaintiff leave to amend his complaint. On February 1, 2008, the plaintiffs appealed the decision by the California Central District Court to dismiss the claims of both plaintiffs Harris and Ramos to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (the Ninth Circuit Court). On May 19, 2008, plaintiff Ramos in the   Harris v. Amgen Inc., et al.  , action filed another lawsuit captioned   Ramos v. Amgen Inc., et al.  ,     in the California Central District Court. The lawsuit is another ERISA class action. The   Ramos v. Amgen Inc., et al  .  ,   matter names the same defendants in the   Harris v. Amgen Inc., et al.,   matter plus   four   new defendants: Amgen Manufacturing, Limited; Richard Nanula; Dennis Fenton; and the Fiduciary Committee of the Plans. On July 14, 2009, the Ninth Circuit Court reversed the California Central District Court s decision in the   Harris   matter and remanded the case back to the California Central District Court. In the meantime, a third ERISA class action was filed by Don Hanks on June 2, 2009 in the California Central District Court alleging the same ERISA violations as in the   Harris   and   Ramos   lawsuits. 
  On August 10, 2009, the   Harris  ,   Ramos   and   Hanks   matters were consolidated by the California Central District Court into   one   action captioned   Harris, et. al. v. Amgen Inc.   Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on November 11, 2009 and added   two   additional plaintiffs, Jorge Torres and Albert Cappa. Amgen filed a motion to dismiss the amended/consolidated complaint, and on March 2, 2010, the California Central District Court dismissed the entire lawsuit without prejudice. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on March 23, 2010. Amgen then filed another motion to dismiss on April 20, 2010. On June 16, 2010, the California Central District Court entered an order dismissing the entire lawsuit with prejudice. On June 24, 2010, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court. On June 4, 2013, the Ninth Circuit Court reversed the decision of the California Central District Court and remanded the case back to the California Central District Court for further proceedings. On June 18, 2013, Amgen petitioned the Ninth Circuit Court for rehearing and/or rehearing   en banc  . The Ninth Circuit Court issued an amended opinion and denied Amgen s petition for rehearing and rehearing   en banc   on October 23, 2013. 
  On June 30, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a petition for certiorari filed by Amgen and the other named defendants, vacated the judgment of the Ninth Circuit Court and remanded this case to the Ninth Circuit Court for reconsideration in light of the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in   Fifth Third Bancorp v. Dudenhoeffer  , decided June 25, 2014. On October 23, 2014, the Ninth Circuit Court reaffirmed its earlier decision of June 4, 2013. On November 13, 2014, Amgen filed a petition for rehearing   en banc   with the Ninth Circuit Court. On May 26, 2015, the Ninth Circuit Court denied Amgen s petition for rehearing   en banc.   On January 25, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court granted Amgen s petition for certiorari, reversed the judgment of the Ninth Circuit Court and remanded the case back to the California Central District Court for further proceedings. On June 27, 2016, the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle this case for an immaterial amount. On November 29, 2016, the California Central District Court entered an order granting preliminary approval of the settlement. 
  Commitments 
  We lease certain facilities and equipment related primarily to administrative, R D, sales and marketing activities under noncancelable operating leases that expire through 2032. The following table summarizes the minimum future rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases as of   December 31, 2016  , (in millions): 

Included in the table above are future rental commitments for abandoned leases in the amount of   $309 million  . There were no material charges for lease abandonments related to the restructuring plan that commenced in 2014 (see Note 2, Restructuring). We expect to receive total future rental income of   $228 million   relating to noncancelable subleases of abandoned facilities. Rental expense on operating leases for the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , was   $134 million  ,   $133 million   and   $126 million  , respectively. 
  
   F-46 

19. Segment information 
  We operate in   one   business segment human therapeutics. Therefore, results of our operations are reported on a consolidated basis for purposes of segment reporting, consistent with internal management reporting. Enterprise-wide disclosures about product sales; revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area; and revenues from major customers are presented below. 
  Revenues 
  Revenues were as follows (in millions): 

Geographic information 
  Outside the United States, we sell products principally in Europe. The geographic classification of product sales was based on the location of the customer. The geographic classification of all other revenues was based on the domicile of the entity from which the revenues were earned. 
  
   F-47 

Certain geographic information with respect to revenues and long-lived assets (consisting of property, plant and equipment, net) was as follows (in millions): 

Major customers 
  In the United States, we sell primarily to pharmaceutical wholesale distributors that we utilize as the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers. Outside the United States, we sell principally to healthcare providers and/or pharmaceutical wholesale distributors depending on the distribution practice in each country. We monitor the financial condition of our larger customers and limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits and, in certain circumstances, by requiring letters of credit. 
  We had product sales to   three   customers each accounting for more than   10%   of total revenues for each of the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  . For 2016, on a combined basis, these customers accounted for   81%   and   96%   of total gross revenues and U.S. gross product sales, respectively, as noted in the following table. Certain information with respect to these customers was as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

At   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , amounts due from these   three   customers each   exceeded 10%   of gross trade receivables and accounted for   76%   and   75%  , respectively, of net trade receivables on a combined basis. At   December 31, 2016   and   2015  ,   21%   and   23%  , respectively, of trade receivables, net, were due from customers located outside the United States, primarily in Europe. Our total allowance for doubtful accounts as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015   was not material. 
  
   F-48 

20. Quarterly financial data (unaudited) 

F-49 

SCHEDULE II 
  AMGEN INC. 
  VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
  Years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
  (In millions) 

F-50 

<EX-10.4>
 2
 amgn-ex104_20161231x10k.htm
 FORM OF STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.4 

Form of Award Notice 
    
  [  The information set forth in this Award Notice will be contained on the related pages on Merrill Lynch Benefits Website (or the website of any successor company to Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB). This Award Notice shall be replaced by the equivalent pages on such website. References to Award Notice in this Agreement shall then refer to the equivalent pages on such website.  ] 
    
  This notice of Award (the    Award Notice   ) sets forth certain details relating to the grant by the Company to you of the Award identified below, pursuant to the Plan. The terms of this Award Notice are incorporated into the Agreement that accompanies this Award Notice and made part of the Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Notice that are not otherwise defined in this Award Notice have the meanings given to such terms in the Agreement. 
    
  Employee:         
  Employee ID:             
  Address:             
  Award Type:             
  Grant ID:         
           Plan: 
    Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 2009 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and/or restated from time to time 
     Grant Date:             
           Grant Price:  
    $________ 
     Number of Shares: 
           Expiration Date: 
    The [______ (__   th   )] anniversary of the date of this Award 
     Vesting Date:            Means the vesting date indicated in the Vesting Schedule 
           Vesting Schedule: 
    Means the schedule of vesting set forth under Vesting Details 
              Vesting Details: 
    Means the presentation (tabular or otherwise) of the Vesting Date and the quantity of Shares vesting. 
       
  IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF THE AWARD AND THE REQUIREMENT TO OPEN A BROKERAGE ACCOUNT   i   : 
  RESIDENTS OF THE U.S. AND PUERTO RICO  : Please read this Award Notice, the Plan and the Agreement (collectively, the    Grant Documents   ) carefully.  If you, as a resident of the U.S. or Puerto Rico, do   not   wish to receive this Award and/or you do   not   consent and agree to the terms and conditions on which this Award is offered, as set forth in the Grant Documents, then you must reject the Award by contacting the Merrill Lynch call center (800) 97AMGEN (800-972-6436) within the U.S., Puerto Rico and Canada or +1 (609) 818-8910 from all other countries (Merrill Lynch will accept the charges for your call) no later than the forty-fifth calendar day following the day on which this Award Notice is made available to you, in which case the Award will be cancelled. For the purpose of determining the forty-five calendar days, Day 1 will be the day   immediately   following the day on which this Award Notice is made available to you. Your failure to notify the Company of your rejection of the Award within this specified period will constitute your acceptance of the Award and your agreement with all terms and conditions of the Award, as set forth in the Grant Documents. If you agree to the terms and conditions of your grant and you desire to accept it, then no further action is needed on your part to accept the grant. However, you must still open a brokerage account as directed by the Company, by 1:00 pm Pacific Time on or before the date that is 11 months after the date of grant. This step is necessary to process transactions related to your equity grant.   If you do not open a brokerage account by this deadline, your grant will be cancelled. 

_____________________ 
   i   This provision is only for use on the form of grant used for the U.S. and Puerto Rico. 

GRANT OF STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 
       
  THE SPECIFIC TERMS OF YOUR STOCK OPTION ARE FOUND IN THE PAGES RELATING TO THE GRANT OF STOCK OPTIONS FOUND ON MERRILL LYNCH BENEFITS WEBSITE (OR THE WEBSITE OF ANY SUCCESSOR COMPANY TO MERRILL LYNCH BANK   TRUST CO., FSB) (THE    AWARD NOTICE   ) WHICH ACCOMPANIES THIS DOCUMENT. THE TERMS OF THE AWARD NOTICE ARE INCORPORATED INTO THIS GRANT OF STOCK OPTIONS. 
    
  On the Grant Date, specified in the Award Notice, Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the    Company   ), has granted to you, the grantee named in the Award Notice, under the plan specified in the Award Notice (the    Plan   ), an option (the    Option   ) to purchase the number of shares of the $0.0001 par value common stock of the Company (the    Shares   ) specified in the Award Notice, pursuant to the terms set forth in this Stock Option Agreement, any special terms and conditions for your country set forth in the attached   Appendix A   and the Award Notice (together, the    Agreement   ). This Option is not intended to qualify and will not be treated as an  incentive stock option  within the meaning of Section 422 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (together with the regulations and other official guidance promulgated thereunder, the    Code   ). Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan. 
    
  The provisions of your Option are as follows: 
    
  I.         Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, on each Vesting Date the Option shall vest with respect to the number of Shares indicated on the Vesting Schedule, provided that you have remained continuously and actively employed with the Company or an Affiliate (as defined in the Plan) through each applicable Vesting Date, unless [(i) your employment has terminated due to your Voluntary Termination (as defined in Section IV(A)(5)) or (ii)]*   ii    you experience a Qualified Termination (as defined in Section IV(B)(4)), or as otherwise determined by the Company in the exercise of its discretion as provided in Section IV(A)(7). This Option may only be exercised for whole shares of the Common Stock, and the Company shall be under no obligation to issue any fractional Shares to you. Subject to the limitations contained herein, this Option shall be exercisable with respect to each installment on or after the applicable Vesting Date. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Vesting Schedule may be accelerated (by notice in writing) by the Company in its sole discretion at any time during the term of this Option. In addition, if not prohibited by local law, vesting may be suspended by the Company in its sole discretion during a leave of absence as provided from time to time according to Company policies and practices. 
    
  II.        (1)    The per share exercise price of this Option is the Grant Price as defined in the Award Notice, being not less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of grant of this Option. 
    
  (2)    To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, payment of the exercise price per share is due in full upon exercise of all or any part of each installment which has become exercisable by you by means of (i) cash or a check, (ii) any cashless exercise procedure through the use of a brokerage arrangement approved by the Company, or (iii) any other form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Board or the Committee in their discretion. 
    
  (3)    To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, if, at the time of exercise, the Company s Common Stock is publicly traded and quoted regularly in the   Wall Street Journal  , payment of the exercise price may be made by delivery of already-owned Shares of a value equal to the exercise price of the Shares for which this Option is being exercised. The already-owned Shares must have been owned by you for the period required to avoid adverse accounting treatment and owned free and clear of any liens, claims, encumbrances or security interests. Payment may also be made by a combination of cash and already-owned Common Stock. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company reserves the right to restrict the methods of payment of the exercise price if necessary or advisable to comply with applicable law or regulation, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion. 

_____________________ 
   ii    Section IV(A)(5) of this Agreement is not applicable to awards identified by the Administrator as new hire, retention or promotion grants and the provisions of such section shall be reserved and references thereto identified by an asterisk (*) shall be omitted from the agreements evidencing such grants. 

III.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contain herein, the Company shall not take any actions that would violate the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation, or the rules of any Securities Exchange. The Company, in its sole discretion, may impose any timing or other restrictions with respect to the exercise of this Option arising from compliance with any securities or tax laws or other rules or regulations. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this Option may not be exercised and no Shares underlying the Option will be issued unless such Shares are then registered under the Securities Act, or, if such Shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, and that the issuance satisfies all other applicable legal requirements. If the Option cannot be exercised and expires during this period, you will forfeit the Option and no Shares or value will be transferred to you. 
    
  IV.    (A)    The term of this Option commences on the Grant Date and, unless sooner terminated as set forth below or in the Plan, terminates on the [_______ (__th)] anniversary of the date of this Option (the    Expiration Date   ). This Option shall terminate prior to the Expiration Date as follows: three (3) months after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate (as defined in the Plan) for any reason or for no reason, including if your employment is terminated by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause (as defined below), or in the event of any other termination of your employment caused directly or indirectly by the Company or an Affiliate, unless: 
    
  (1)    such termination of your employment is due to your Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below), in which case the Option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or five (5) years after termination of your employment and the vesting of the Option shall be accelerated and the Option shall be fully exercisable, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day immediately preceding such termination of your employment with respect to the Option, except that if the Option was granted in the calendar year in which such termination occurs, the Option shall be accelerated to vest with respect to a number of Shares equal to the number of Shares subject to the Option multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete months you remained continuously and actively employed during such calendar year, and the denominator of which is twelve (12); 
    
  (2)    such termination of your employment is due to your death, in which case the Option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or five (5) years after your death and the vesting of the Option shall be accelerated and the Option shall be fully exercisable as of the day immediately preceding your death with respect to the Option, except that if the Option was granted in the calendar year in which your death occurs the Option shall be accelerated to vest with respect to a number of shares equal to the number of shares subject to the Option multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete months you remained continuously and actively employed during such calendar year, and the denominator of which is twelve (12); 
  (3)    during any part of such three (3) month period, this Option is not exercisable solely because of the condition set forth in Section III above, in which event this Option shall not terminate until the earlier of the Expiration Date or until it shall have been exercisable for an aggregate period of three (3) months after the termination of your employment; 
    
  (4)    exercise of this Option within three (3) months after termination of your employment with the Company or with an Affiliate would result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, in which case this Option will terminate on the earlier of: (a) the tenth (10th) day after the last date upon which exercise would result in such liability; (b) six (6) months and ten (10) days after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate; or (iii) the Expiration Date; 
    
  (5)    [such termination of your employment is due to your voluntary termination (and such voluntary termination is not the result of Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below)) after you are at least sixty five (65) years of age, or after you are at least fifty-five (55) years of age and have been an employee of the Company and/or an Affiliate for at least ten (10) years in the aggregate as determined by the Company in its sole discretion according to Company policies and practices as in effect from time to time (   Voluntary Termination   ), in which case this Option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or five (5) years after termination of your employment and the unvested portions of this Option will become exercisable pursuant to the Vesting Schedule without regard to your Voluntary Termination of your employment prior to the Vesting Date, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, with respect to the Option; if the Option was granted in the calendar year in which your Voluntary Termination occurs, the Option will become exercisable pursuant to the Vesting Schedule only with respect to a number of Shares equal to the number of Shares subject to the Option multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete months you remained continuously and actively employed during such calendar year, and the denominator of which is twelve (12); notwithstanding the definition of Voluntary Termination set forth above, if the Company receives an opinion of counsel that there has been a legal judgment and/or legal development in your jurisdiction that would likely result in the favorable treatment upon Voluntary Termination described above being deemed unlawful and/or discriminatory, then the Committee will not apply the favorable treatment described above;][Reserved]*   iii   

(6)    such termination of your employment is due to a Qualified Termination, in which case, the Option shall terminate within three (3) months following the Qualified Termination and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the vesting of the Option shall be accelerated and the Option shall be fully exercisable as of the day immediately prior to the Qualified Termination; or 
    
  (7)    the Company determines, in its sole discretion at any time during the term of this Option, in writing, to otherwise extend the period of time during which this Option will vest and may be exercised after termination of your employment. 
    
  However, in any and all circumstances and except to the extent the Vesting Schedule has been accelerated by the Company in its sole discretion during the term of this Option or as a result of your Permanent and Total Disability or death as provided in Sections IV(A)(1) or IV(A)(2) above, respectively, [as a result of your Voluntary Termination as provided in Section IV(A)(5) above,]* as a result of a Change of Control as provided in Section IV(A)(6) above or as otherwise determined by the Company in the exercise of its discretion as provided in Section IV(A)(7) above, this Option may be exercised following termination of your employment only as to that number of Shares as to which it was exercisable on the date of termination of your employment under the provisions of Section I of this Agreement. 
    
  (B)    For purposes of this Option: 
    
  (1)    termination of your employment    shall mean the last date you are either an active employee of the Company or an Affiliate or actively engaged as a Director to the Company or an Affiliate; in the event of termination of your employment (whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), your right to receive options and vest under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period (  e.g.  , active employment would not include any period of  garden leave  or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any). Your right, if any, to exercise the Option after termination of employment will be measured by the date of termination of your active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law. The Administrator shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing services for purposes of the options (including whether you may still be considered to be providing services while on a leave of absence); 
    
  (2)     Cause    shall mean (i) your conviction of a felony (or similar crime under applicable law, as determined by the Company), or (ii) your engaging in conduct that constitutes willful gross neglect or willful gross misconduct in carrying out your duties, resulting, in either case, in material economic harm to the Company or any Affiliate, unless you believed in good faith that such conduct was in, or not contrary to, the best interests of the Company or any Affiliate. For purposes of clause (ii) above, no act, or failure to act, on your part shall be deemed  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by you not in good faith; 
    
  (3)    Permanent and Total Disability    shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of your employment by (a) the U.S. Social Security Administration, (b) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate, (c) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate, or (d) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case; 
    
  (4)     Qualified Termination    shall mean 
    
  (a)    if you are an employee who participates in the Change of Control Plan (as defined below), your termination of employment within two (2) years following a Change of Control (i) by the Company other than for Cause, Disability (as defined below) or as a result of your death, or (ii) by you for Good Reason (as defined in the Change of Control Plan); or 
    
  (b)    if you are an employee who does not participate in the Change of Control Plan or the Change of Control Plan is no longer in effect, your termination of employment within two (2) years following a Change of Control by the Company other than for Cause, Disability (as defined below) or as a result of your death; 

_____________________ 
   iii    Section IV(A)(5) of this Agreement is not applicable to awards identified by the Administrator as new hire, retention or promotion grants and the provisions of such section shall be reserved and references thereto identified by an asterisk (*) shall be omitted from the agreements evidencing such grants. 

(5)    Change of Control    shall mean the occurrence of any of the following: 
    
  (a)    the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or  group,  within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (excluding, for this purpose, the Company or any of its Affiliates, or any employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates which acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of fifty percent (50%) or more of either the then outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or 
    
  (b)    individuals who, as of April 2, 1991, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to April 2, 1991, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company s stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the Directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of the Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or 
    
  (c)    the consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger, consolidation, (in each case, with respect to which persons who were the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, immediately thereafter, own more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company s then outstanding voting securities) or a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or of the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 
    
  Notwithstanding anything herein or in any Award Agreement to the contrary, if a Change of Control constitutes a payment event with respect to any Award that is subject to United States income tax and which provides for a deferral of compensation that is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the transaction or event described in subsection (a), (b), (c) or (d) above must also constitute a  change in control event,  as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(i)(5), in order to constitute a Change of Control for purposes of payment of such Award. 
    
  (6)    Change of Control Plan    shall mean the Company s change of control and severance plan, including the Amgen Inc. Change of Control Severance Plan, as amended and restated, effective as of December 9, 2010 (and any subsequent amendments thereto), or any equivalent plan governing the provision of benefits to eligible employees upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (including resulting from a termination of employment that occurs within a specified time period following a Change of Control), as in effect immediately prior to a Change of Control; and 
               
  (7)    Disability    shall be determined in accordance with the Company s long-term disability plan as in effect immediately prior to a Change of Control. 
    
  V.    (A)    To the extent specified above, this Option may be exercised by delivering a notice of exercise in person, by mail, via electronic mail or facsimile or by other authorized method designated by the Company, together with the exercise price to the Company Stock Administrator, or to such other person as the Company Stock Administrator may designate, during regular business hours, together with such additional documents as the Company may then require pursuant to Section 7.2(b) of the Plan. 
  (B)    Regardless of any action the Company or your actual employer (the    Employer   ) takes with respect to any or all income tax (including federal, state and local taxes), social insurance, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you (   Tax Obligations   ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax Obligations is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount, if any, actually withheld by the Company and/or your Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer: (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Obligations in connection with any aspect of the Option grant, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (b) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax Obligations or achieve any particular tax result. Furthermore, if you become subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction, you acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax Obligations in more than one jurisdiction. 
    
  (C)    Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or your Employer to satisfy all Tax Obligations. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or your Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy all applicable Tax Obligations by one or a combination of the following: 

(1)    withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or your Employer; 
    
  (2)    withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon exercise of the Option either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); or 
    
  (3)    withholding in Shares to be issued or cash to be paid upon exercise of the Option, provided that, if Shares are withheld, the Company and your Employer shall only withhold an amount of Shares with a fair market value equal to the Tax Obligations. 
    
  Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax Obligations by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates. If the Tax Obligations are satisfied by withholding in Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the exercised Option, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares is held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax Obligations due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan. 
    
  (D)    Finally, you shall pay to the Company or your Employer any amount of Tax Obligations that the Company or your Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. You agree to take any further actions and execute any additional documents as may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Section V. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax Obligations. 
    
  VI.     This Option is not transferable, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and is exercisable during your life only by you except if you have named a trust created for the benefit of you, your spouse, or members of your immediate family (a  Trust ) as beneficiary of this Option, this Option may be exercised by the Trust after your death. 
  VII.    Any notices provided for in this Option or the Plan shall be given in writing or electronically and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail or equivalent foreign postal service, postage prepaid, addressed to you at such address as is currently maintained in the Company s records or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Company Stock Administrator. Such notices may be given using any automated system for the documentation, granting or exercise of Awards, such as a system using an internet website or interactive voice response, as approved by the Company. 
    
  VIII.    This Option is subject to all the provisions of the Plan and its provisions are hereby made a part of this Option, including without limitation the provisions of Articles 6 and 7 of the Plan relating to Options, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Option and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control. 
    
  IX  .            You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Option by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company, or Affiliates of the Company for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. 
    
  You understand that the Company and your Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, email address, date of birth, social insurance number (to the extent permitted under applicable local law), passport or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all equity compensation or any other entitlement to shares awarded, cancelled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan (   Data   ). 
    
  You understand that Data may be transferred to Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB, (or any successor thereto,), or any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that, if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize your Employer, the Company, Affiliates of the Company, Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB (or any successor thereto), and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to any other broker,  

escrow agent or other third party with whom the Shares received upon exercise of this Option may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that, if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service with the Employer will not be affected; the only consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you Options or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative. 
    
  X.    The terms of this Option shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises hereunder, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of the State of Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States for the federal district located in the State of Delaware, and no other courts, where this Option is made and/or to be performed. 
    
  XI. Notwithstanding any provision of this Option to the contrary, if you are employed by the Company or an Affiliate in any of the countries identified in the attached   Appendix A   (which constitutes a part of this Agreement), are subject to the laws of any foreign jurisdiction, or relocate to one of the countries included in the attached   Appendix A  , the Option granted hereunder shall be subject to any special terms and conditions for your country set forth in   Appendix A   and the following additional terms and conditions: 
    
  a.  the terms and conditions of this Option, including   Appendix A  , are deemed modified to the extent necessary or advisable to comply with applicable foreign laws or facilitate the administration to the Plan; 
    
  b.  if applicable, the effectiveness of this Option is conditioned upon its compliance with any applicable foreign laws, regulations, rules or local governmental regulatory exemption and subject to receipt of any required foreign regulatory approvals; and 
    
  c.  the Company may take any other action before or after the date of this Option that it deems advisable to obtain approval or comply with any necessary local governmental regulatory exemptions or approvals. 
    
  XII.  (A)    In accepting this Option, you acknowledge, understand and agree that:  
    
  (1)    the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, as provided in the Plan; 
    
  (2)    the grant of this Option is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of options, or benefits in lieu of options even if options have been awarded in the past; 
    
  (3)    all decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company; 
    
  (4)    your participation in the Plan is voluntary; 
    
  (5)    the grant of Options, the underlying Shares, and the income from and value of same, are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation; 
    
  (6)    neither the grant of options nor any provision of this Option, the Plan or the policies adopted pursuant to the Plan confer upon you any right with respect to employment or continuation of current employment and shall not interfere with the ability of the Employer to terminate your employment or service relationship (if any Affiliate) at any time; 
    
  (7)    in the event that you are not an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, the Option shall not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company or any Affiliate; 
    
  (8)    the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown, indeterminable, and cannot be predicted with certainty; 

(9)    if the underlying Shares do not increase in value, this Option will have no value; if you exercise this Option and obtain Shares, the value of those Shares acquired upon exercise may increase or decrease in value, even below the Grant Price per Share; 
    
  (10)    in consideration of the grant of this Option, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from forfeiture of options resulting from termination of your employment by the Company or an Affiliate (regardless of the reason for such termination and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any) and you irrevocably release the Company and your Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim; 
    
  (11)    unless otherwise agreed with the Company, the Options, the underlying Shares, and the income from and value of same, are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, the service you may provide as a director of an Affiliate of the Company; 
           
  (12)     except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Plan, the Options and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the Options or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of the Company; and 
    
  (13)    the following provisions apply only if you are providing services outside the United States: 
    
  (i)    for employment law purposes outside the United States, the Option, underlying Shares, and the income from and value of same, are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including but not limited to for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, holiday pay, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar mandatory payments; and 
       
  (ii)    neither the Company, the Employer nor any Affiliate of the Company shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between your local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the Option or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the exercise of the Option or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired upon exercise of the Option. 
    
  (B)    The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan, or your acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. You should consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan. 
    
  XIV.  If one or more of the provisions of this Option shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provisions which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Option to be construed so as to foster the intent of this Option and the Plan. 
    
  XV.  If you have received this Option or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control. 
    
  XVI.  This Option is not intended to constitute  nonqualified deferred compensation  within the meaning of Code Section 409A, but rather is intended to be exempt from the application of Code Section 409A. To the extent that this Option is nevertheless deemed to be subject to Code Section 409A for any reason, this Option shall be interpreted in accordance with Code Section 409A and U.S. Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Grant Date. Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, in the event that following the Grant Date, the Committee (as defined in the Plan) determines that this Option may be or become subject to Code Section 409A, the Committee may adopt such amendments to the Plan and/or this Option or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Committee determines are necessary or appropriate to (a) exempt the Plan and/or this Option from the application of Code Section 409A and/or preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided with respect to this Option, or (b) comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A;   provided  ,   however  , that this paragraph shall not create an obligation on the part of the Committee to adopt any such amendment, policy or procedure or take any such other action. 

XVII.  By electing to accept this Option, you acknowledge receipt of this Option and hereby confirm your understanding that the terms set forth in this Option constitute, subject to the terms of the Plan, which terms shall control in the event of any conflict between the Plan and this Option, the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and supersede any and all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties concerning the subject matter of this Option. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company. 
    
  XVIII.  The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on this Option and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. 
    
  XIX.   This Option and all compensation payable with respect to it shall be subject to recovery by the Company pursuant to any and all of the Company s policies with respect to the recovery of compensation, as they shall be in effect and may be amended from time to time, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. 
    
  XX.  You acknowledge that a waiver by the Company of breach of any provision of this Option shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other provision of this Option, or of any subsequent breach by you or any other grantee.                 

Very truly yours, 
    
  AMGEN INC. 
    
  By______________________________ 
  Duly authorized on behalf  
  of the Board of Directors 

APPENDIX A 
    
  ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE 
  AMENDED AND RESTATED  
  AMGEN INC. 2009 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN, 
  AS AMENDED AND/OR RESTATED FROM TIME TO TIME 
    
  GRANT OF STOCK OPTION 
  (BY COUNTRY) 
    
  Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix A shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan and/or the Agreement to which this Appendix is attached. 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  This Appendix includes additional terms and conditions that govern any Options granted under the Plan if, under applicable law, you are a resident of, are deemed to be a resident of or are working in one of the countries listed below.  Furthermore, the additional terms and conditions that govern any Options granted hereunder may apply to you if you transfer employment and/or residency to one of the countries listed below and the Company shall, in its discretion, determine to what extent the terms and conditions contained herein shall apply to you. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  This Appendix also includes notifications relating to exchange control and other issues of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan. The information is based on the exchange control, securities and other laws in effect in the countries to which this Appendix refers as of October 2016. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you not rely on the notifications herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be outdated when you exercise the Options and acquire Shares under the Plan, or when you subsequently sell Shares acquired under the Plan. 
    
  In addition, the notifications are general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you should seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation. Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you are currently residing and/or working or are considered a resident of another country for local law purposes, the information contained herein may not be applicable to you or you may be subject to the provisions of one or more jurisdictions. 
    
  ALL NON-U.S. JURISDICTIONS 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Method of Exercise.   The following provision replaces Section II(3): 
    
  To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, payment of the exercise price per Share is due in full in cash or check upon exercise of all or any part of this Option which has become exercisable by you. Due to legal restrictions outside the U.S., you are not permitted to pay the exercise price by delivery of already-owned Shares of a value equal to the exercise price of the Shares for which this Option is being exercised. Furthermore, payment may not be made by a combination of cash and already-owned Common Stock. 
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Insider Trading Restrictions/Market Abuse Laws.   Depending on your country, you may be subject to insider trading restrictions and/or market abuse laws, which may affect your ability to acquire or sell Shares or rights to Shares (  e.g  ., Options) under the Plan during such times as you are considered to have  inside information  regarding the Company (as defined by the laws of your country).  Any restrictions under these laws or regulations are separate from and in addition to any restrictions that may be imposed under any applicable Company insider trading policy.  You are responsible for ensuring your compliance with any applicable restrictions and you should speak with your personal legal advisor on this matter. 
    
  Foreign     Asset/Account Reporting Information.   Your country of residence may have certain foreign asset and/or account reporting requirements which may affect your ability to acquire or hold Shares under the Plan or cash received from participating in the Plan (including from any dividends received, or sale proceeds arising from the sale of Shares) in a brokerage or bank account  
  
   APPENDIX A-  1 

outside of your country. You may be required to report such accounts, assets or transactions to the tax or other authorities in your country. You are responsible for ensuring your compliance with such regulations, and you should speak with your personal legal advisor on this matter. 
    
  AUSTRALIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.   If you acquire Shares under the Plan and offer the Shares for sale to a person or entity resident in Australia, the offer may be subject to disclosure requirements under Australian law. You should consult with your own legal advisor before making any such offer in Australia. 
    
  Tax Information.   The Plan is a plan to which Subdivision 83A-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) (the    Act   ) applies (subject to the conditions in that Act). 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   If you are an Australian resident, exchange control reporting is required for cash transactions exceeding AUD10,000 and for international fund transfers. If an Australian bank is assisting with the transaction, the bank will file the report on your behalf. If there is no Australian bank involved in the transfer, you will be required to file the report. 
    
  AUSTRIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    If you are an Austrian resident and you hold Shares acquired under the Plan outside of Austria, you must submit a report to the Austrian National Bank. An exemption applies if the value of the Shares as of any given quarter does not meet or exceed  30,000,000 or if the value of the Shares in any given year as of December 31 does not meet or exceed  5,000,000. If the former threshold is exceeded, quarterly obligations are imposed, whereas if the latter threshold is exceeded, annual reports must be given. The quarterly reporting date is as of the last day of the respective quarter and the deadline for filing the quarterly report is the 15th day of the month following the end of the respective quarter. The annual reporting date is December 31 and the deadline for filing the annual report is January 31 of the following year. 
       
  A separate reporting requirement applies when you sell Shares acquired under the Plan or receive a cash dividend paid on such Shares. In that case, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds are held outside of Austria. If the transaction volume of all cash accounts abroad meets or exceeds  10,000,000, the movements and balances of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the 15th day of the following month, on the prescribed form (  Meldungen SI-Forderungen und/oder SI-Verpflichtungen  ). 
    
  BELGIUM 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Taxation of the Option.   Your tax consequences will vary depending on when you accept the Option. If you accept the Option in writing within 60 days of the offer date, you will be subject to taxation on the offer date. If you accept the Option more than 60 days after the offer date, you will be subject to taxation at exercise. Please refer to the additional materials that will be delivered to you for a more detailed description of the tax consequences of accepting the Option. You should consult your personal tax advisor prior to accepting the Option. 
    
  Tax Reporting; Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are a Belgian resident, you are required to report any taxable income attributable to the Option granted hereunder on your annual tax return. You are also required to report any securities (  e.g.  , Shares acquired under the Plan) held and bank accounts (including brokerage accounts) opened and maintained outside of Belgium on your annual tax return. In a separate report, you are required to provide the National Bank of Belgium with the account details of any such foreign accounts (including the account number, bank name and country in which such account was opened). This report, as well as information on how to complete it, can be found on the website of the National Bank of Belgium, www.nbb.be, under the   Kredietcentrales / Centrales des cr dits   caption. 

APPENDIX A-  2 

BRAZIL 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Compliance with Law  . By accepting the Option, you acknowledge that you agree to comply with applicable Brazilian laws and pay any and all applicable taxes associated with the exercise of the Option, the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan and the payment of dividends on such Shares. 
    
  Nature of Grant.   This provision supplements Section XII of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting this Option, you acknowledge (i) that you are making an investment decision, (ii) that the Options will be exercisable by you only if the vesting conditions are met and any necessary services are rendered by you during the vesting period set forth in the Vesting Schedule, and (iii) that the value of the underlying Shares is not fixed and may increase or decrease in value over the vesting period without compensation to you. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   If you are resident or domiciled in Brazil, you will be required to submit annually a declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank of Brazil if the aggregate value of such assets and rights equals or exceeds US$100,000. If such amount exceeds US$100,000,000, the referenced declaration must be submitted quarterly. Assets and rights that must be reported include the following: (i) bank deposits; (ii) loans; (iii) financing transactions; (iv) leases; (v) direct investments; (vi) portfolio investments, including Shares acquired under the Plan; (vii) financial derivatives investments; and (viii) other investments, such as real estate. Please note that foreign individuals holding Brazilian visas are considered Brazilian residents for purposes of this reporting requirement and must declare at least the assets held abroad that were acquired subsequent to the date of admittance as a resident of Brazil. Individuals holding assets and rights outside of Brazil valued at less than US$100,000 are not required to submit a declaration. 
    
  BULGARIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   If funds are remitted to purchase Shares abroad, a declaration of the purpose of the remittance must be provided to the local bank that is transferring the funds. If the funds are remitted to a bank outside the European Union and the amount exceeds BGN 30,000, documentation evidencing the underlying transaction (for instance a copy of the option agreement) must be provided. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.   If you make any payments to or receive any payments from abroad related to the Plan and the respective amount exceeds BGN 100,000, you should fill in and submit to the respective local bank a specific statistical form regarding the source of the income prior to the ordering of the payment or within thirty (30) days of receipt of a notice by the bank that the amount is in your bank account. 
    
  In addition, you will be required to annually file statistical forms with the Bulgarian National Bank regarding your receivables in bank accounts abroad as well as your securities abroad (  e.g.  , Shares acquired under the Plan) if the total sum of all such receivables and securities equals or exceeds BGN 50,000 as of the previous calendar year-end.  The reports are due by March 31. 
    
  CANADA 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Form of Payment.    Due to legal restrictions in Canada, you are prohibited from surrendering Shares that you already own to pay the exercise price or any Tax Obligations in connection with the Option. 
    
  Termination of Employment.   Section IV(B)(1) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
    
  (1)    termination of your employment    shall mean the last date you are either an active employee of the Company or an Affiliate or actively engaged as a Director to the Company or an Affiliate; in the event of involuntary termination of your employment (regardless of the reason for such termination and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), your right to receive the Option and vest under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of: (1) the date you receive notice of termination  
  
   APPENDIX A-  3 

of employment from the Company or your Employer, or (2) the date you are no longer actively employed by the Company or your Employer regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under local law (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law). Your right, if any, to acquire Shares pursuant to the Option after termination of employment will be measured by the date of termination of your active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law. 
    
  The following provisions will apply to you if you are a resident of Quebec: 
    
  Language Consent.    The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Agreement, as well as all documents, notices, and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English. 
    
  Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig  la r daction en anglais de cette convention (    Agreement    ), ainsi que de tous documents, avis et proc dures judiciaires, ex cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s directement ou indirectement  , la pr sente convention. 
    
  Data Privacy Notice and Consent.    This provision supplements Section IX of the Agreement: 
    
  You hereby authorize the Company and the Company s representative to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel (professional or not) involved in the administration and operation of the Plan. You further authorize the Company and your Employer to disclose and discuss your participation in the Plan with their advisors. You also authorize the Company and your Employer to record such information and keep it in your employee file. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.   You are permitted to sell Shares acquired through the Plan through the designated broker appointed under the Plan, if any, provided that the resale of such Shares takes place outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the Shares are listed (  e.g.  , the NASDAQ Global Select Market). 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.   Foreign property, including Shares, Options and other rights to receive Shares of a non-Canadian company held by a Canadian resident employee generally must be reported annually on a Form T1135 (Foreign Income Verification Statement) if the total cost of the employee s foreign property exceeds C$100,000 at any time during the year. Thus, such Options must be reported - generally at nil cost - if the C$100,000 cost threshold is exceeded because other foreign property is held by the employee. When Shares are acquired, their cost generally is the adjusted cost base (   ACB   ) of the Shares. The ACB ordinarily would equal the fair market value of the Shares at the time of acquisition, but if the employee owns other shares of the same company, this ACB may have to be averaged with the ACB of the other shares. 
    
  CHILE 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.   The offer of Options constitutes a private offering in Chile effective as of the Grant Date. The offer of Options is made subject to ruling N  336 of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities and Insurance (   SVS   ). The offer refers to securities not registered at the securities registry or at the foreign securities registry of the SVS, and, therefore, such securities are not subject to oversight of the SVS. Given that the Options are not registered in Chile, the Company is not required to provide public information about the Options or the Shares in Chile. Unless the Options and/or the Shares are registered with the SVS, a public offering of such securities cannot be made in Chile. 
    
  Informaci n bajo la Ley de Mercado de Valores.   Esta oferta de las Opci nes constituye una oferta privada en Chile y se inicia en la Fecha de la Concesi n. Esta oferta las Opci nes se acoge a las disposiciones de la Norma de Car cter General N  336 de la Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros de Chile (   SVS   ). Esta oferta versa sobre valores no inscritos en el Registro de Valores o en el Registro de Valores Extranjeros que lleva la SVS, por lo que tales valores no est n sujetos a la fiscalizaci n de  sta. Por tratarse las Opci nes de valores no registrados en Chile, no existe obligaci n por parte de la Compa  a de entregar en Chile informaci n p blica respecto de las Opci nes o sus Acciones. Estos valores no podr n ser objeto de oferta p blica en Chile mientras no sean inscritos en el Registro de Valores correspondiente. 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   You are responsible for complying with foreign exchange requirements in Chile. You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding any applicable exchange control obligations prior to exercising the Option or receiving proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired at exercise or cash dividends. 
  
   APPENDIX A-  4 

If you use the cash exercise method to exercise the Option and remit funds in excess of US$10,000 out of Chile, the remittance must be made through the Formal Exchange Market (i.e., a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office). In such case, you must provide certain information regarding the transaction (e.g., amount, currency and destination of funds as well as the parties involved) to the bank or registered foreign exchange office used in the remittance on a prescribed form, the   Panilla   or notice form. The bank or registered foreign exchange office will submit the form to the Central Bank to notify the Central Bank of the transaction. 
    
  If you exercise the Option using a cashless exercise method and the aggregate exercise price exceeds US$10,000, you must sign Annex 1 of the Manual of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations and file it directly with the Central Bank within the first 10 days of the month following the exercise date. 
    
  If you use the cash exercise method to exercise the Option and remit funds equal to or less than US$10,000 or if you use a cashless exercise method and the aggregate exercise price is equal to or less than US$10,000, you are not required to submit any type of report or filing with the Central Bank of Chile in connection with the exercise of the Option. 
    
  You are not required to repatriate funds obtained from the sale of Shares or the receipt of any dividends. However, if you decide to repatriate such funds, you must do so through the Formal Exchange Market if the amount of funds exceeds US$10,000. In such case, you must report the payment to a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office receiving the funds. If your aggregate investments held outside of Chile exceed US$5,000,000 (including Shares and any cash proceeds obtained under the Plan) in the relevant calendar year, you must report the investments quarterly to the Central Bank. Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations (and Annex 3.2, at the end of December, if applicable) must be used to file this report. Please note that exchange control regulations in Chile are subject to change. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.   The Chilean Internal Revenue Service (   CIRS   ) requires all taxpayers to provide information annually regarding: (i) the taxes paid abroad which they will use as a credit against Chilean income taxes, and (ii) the results of foreign investments. These annual reporting obligations must be complied with by submitting a sworn statement setting forth this information before March 15 of each year. The forms to be used to submit the sworn statement are Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad  and Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad.  If you are not a Chilean citizen and have been a resident in Chile for less than three (3) years, you are exempt from the requirement to file Tax Form 1853. These statements must be submitted electronically through the CIRS website: www.sii.cl. 
    
  Investments abroad must also be registered with the CIRS for you to be entitled to a foreign tax credit for any tax withheld on dividends abroad, if applicable, and such registration also provides evidence of the acquisition price of the Shares (which will be zero) which you will need when the Shares are sold. You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding how to register with the CIRS. 
    
  CHINA 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  The following terms apply only to nationals of the People s Republic of China (the    PRC   ) residing in the PRC  : 
    
  Method of Exercise.    Due to legal restrictions in the PRC, you will be required to pay the exercise price for any Shares subject to the Option granted hereunder by a cashless sell-all exercise, such that all Shares will be sold immediately upon exercise and the cash proceeds of sale, less the exercise price, any Tax Obligations and broker s fees or commissions, will be remitted to you. The Company reserves the right to provide additional methods of exercise depending on local developments. 
    
  Exchange Control Requirements.   You understand and agree that, pursuant to PRC exchange control requirements, you will be required to repatriate the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares issued upon the exercise of the Option to China. You further understand that, under applicable laws, such repatriation of your cash proceeds will need to be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company or any Affiliate, including your Employer, and you hereby consent and agree that any proceeds from the sale of the Shares may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to you. You also understand that the Company will deliver the proceeds to you as soon as possible, but that there may be delays in distributing the funds to you due to exchange control requirements in China. Proceeds may be paid to you in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion. If the proceeds are paid to you in U.S. dollars, you will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. If the proceeds are paid to you in local currency, the Company is under no obligation to secure any particular currency conversion rate and the Company may face delays in converting the proceeds to local currency due to exchange control restrictions. You agree to bear any currency fluctuation risk between the date  
  
   APPENDIX A-  5 

the Option is exercised and the time that (i) the Tax Obligations are converted to local currency and remitted to the tax authorities, and (ii) net proceeds are converted to local currency and distributed to you. You acknowledge that neither the Company nor any Affiliate will be held liable for any delay in delivering the proceeds to you. You agree to sign any agreements, forms and/or consents that may be requested by the Company or the Company s designated broker to effectuate any of the remittances, transfers, conversions or other processes affecting the proceeds. You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China. 
    
  COLOMBIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.   The Shares are not and will not be registered with the Colombian registry of publicly traded securities (  Registro Nacional de Valores y Emisores  ) and therefore the Shares may not be offered to the public in Colombia. Nothing in this document should be construed as the making of a public offer of securities in Colombia. 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   Investment in assets located abroad (such as Shares acquired under the Plan) does not require prior approval from the Central Bank (  Banco de la Rep blica  ). Nonetheless, such investments are subject to exchange control regulations. If you are a Colombian resident and the value of your aggregate investments held abroad (including Shares) equals or exceeds US$500,000 as of December 31 of the applicable calendar year, these investments must be registered with the Central Bank. Upon the sale or other disposition of investments (including Shares and dividends) which have been registered with the Central Bank, the registration with the Central Bank must be cancelled no later than March 31 of the year following the year of the sale or disposition (or a fine of up to 200% of the value of the infringing payment will apply). When investments held abroad are sold or otherwise disposed of, regardless of whether they have been registered with the Central Bank, Colombian residents must repatriate the proceeds to Colombia by selling currency to a Colombian bank and filing the appropriate form. 
    
  CROATIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   Croatian residents must report any foreign investments (including Shares acquired under the Plan) to the Croatian National Bank for statistical purposes. Prior approval from the Croatian National Bank for bank accounts opened abroad is no longer required to be obtained. You should be aware that exchange control regulations in Croatia are subject to frequent change and you are solely responsible for ensuring your continued compliance with current Croatian exchange control laws. 
    
  CZECH REPUBLIC 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting.    Proceeds from the sale of Shares and any dividends paid on such Shares may be held in a cash account abroad and you are no longer required to report the opening and maintenance of a foreign account to the Czech National Bank (the    CNB   ), unless the CNB notifies you specifically that such reporting is required. Upon request of the CNB, you may need to file a notification within fifteen (15) days of the end of the calendar quarter in which you acquire Shares. 
    
  DENMARK 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Danish Stock Option Act.   In accepting this Option, you acknowledge that you have received an Employer Statement translated into Danish, which is being provided to comply with the Danish Stock Option Act. To the extent more favorable to you and required to comply with the Stock Option Act, the terms set forth in the Employer Statement will apply to your participation in the Plan. 
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    If you establish an account holding Shares or an account holding cash outside of Denmark, you must report the account to the Danish Tax Administration. The form which should be used in this respect can be obtained from a local bank. (These obligations are separate from and in addition to the obligations described below.) 
    
  Securities/Tax Reporting Information.    If you hold Shares acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside of Denmark, you are required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account. For this purpose, you must sign  
  
   APPENDIX A-  6 

and file a Form V (  Erklaering V  ) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both you and the broker/bank must sign the Form V, unless an exemption from the broker/bank signature requirement is obtained from the Danish Tax Administration. It is possible to seek an exemption on the Form V, which you should do at the time you submit the Form V. By signing the Form V, you and the broker or bank undertake an obligation, without further request each year, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the brokerage-deposit account as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of Form V can be found at the following website: www.skat.dk. 
    
  In addition, if you open a brokerage or bank account with a U.S. bank, the account will be treated as a  deposit account  because cash can be held in the account. Therefore, you also must file a Form K (  Erklaering K  ) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both you and the broker/bank must sign the Form K, unless an exemption from the broker/bank signature requirement is obtained from the Danish Tax Administration. It is possible to seek an exemption on the Form K, which you should do at the time you submit the Form K. By signing the Form K, you and the broker or bank undertake an obligation, without further request each year, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form K, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of Form K can be found at the following website: www.skat.dk. 
    
  If you exercise the Option by means of the cashless method of exercise, you are not required to file a Form V because you will not hold any Shares. However, if you open a deposit account with a foreign broker or bank to hold the cash proceeds, you are required to file a Form K as described above. 
    
  EGYPT 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information  . If you transfer funds into or out of Egypt in connection with the exercise of the Option, you are required to transfer the funds through a registered bank in Egypt. 
    
  FINLAND 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  FRANCE 
    
  Terms and Conditions 
    
  Language Consent.   By accepting the Option, you confirm that you have read and understood the documents relating to the Option (the Option Agreement, including this Appendix A, and the Plan) which were provided in the English language, and you accept the terms of these documents accordingly. 
    
  Consentement Relatif   la Langue Utilis e.   En acceptant l Option,   vous confirmez que vous avez lu et compris   relatifs   l'Option (le Contrat et le Plan), qui ont  t  fournis en langue anglaise, et vous acceptez les termes en connaissance de cause. 
    
  Notifications 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.   French residents and non-residents must declare to the Customs Authorities the cash and securities they import or export without the use of a financial institution when the value of such cash or securities exceeds  10,000. French residents also must report all foreign bank and brokerage accounts on an annual basis (including accounts opened or closed during the tax year) on a specific form together with the income tax return. Failure to comply could trigger significant penalties. 
    
  GERMANY 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information  . Cross-border payments in excess of  12,500 must be reported monthly to the German Federal Bank (  Bundesbank  ). In case of payments in connection with securities (including proceeds realized upon the sale of Shares or the receipt of dividends), the report must be made by the 5th day of the month following the month in which the payment was received and must be filed electronically. The form of report (  Allgemeine Meldeportal Statistik  ) can be accessed via the   Bundesbank s    
  
   APPENDIX A-  7 

website (www.bundesbank.de) and is available in both German and English. You are responsible for satisfying any applicable reporting obligation. 
    
  GREECE 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   If you exercise the Option through a cash exercise, withdraw funds from a bank in Greece and remit those funds out of Greece (in an amount exceeding  50,000), you may be required to submit a written application to the bank. The application will likely need to contain the following information: (i) amount and currency to be remitted; (ii) account to be debited; (iii) name and contact information of the beneficiary (the person or corporation to whom the funds are to be remitted); (iv) bank of the beneficiary with address and code number; (v) account number of the beneficiary; (vi) details of the payment such as the purpose of the transaction (  e.g.  , exercise of Option); and (vii) expenses of the transaction. 
    
  If you exercise the Option by way of a cashless method of exercise as described in Section II(2)(ii) of the Agreement, this application will not be required because no funds will be remitted out of Greece. 
  HONG KONG 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Sale of Shares.    Shares received at exercise are accepted as a personal investment. In the event that Shares are issued in respect of the Options within six (6) months of the Grant Date, you agree that you will not offer to the public or otherwise dispose of the Shares prior to the six (6)-month anniversary of the Grant Date. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  SECURITIES WARNING:    The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. You should exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Appendix, or the Plan, you should obtain independent professional advice. The Option and any Shares issued in respect of the Option do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to members of the Board and Employees. The Agreement, including this Appendix, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong. The Option and any documentation related thereto are intended solely for the personal use of each member of the Board and/or Employee and may not be distributed to any other person. 
    
  HUNGARY 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  ICELAND 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Method of Exercise.    Due to legal restrictions in Iceland, you will be required to pay the exercise price for any Shares subject to the Option granted hereunder by a cashless sell-all exercise, such that all Shares will be sold immediately upon exercise and the cash proceeds of sale, less the exercise price, any Tax Obligations and broker s fees or commissions, will be remitted to you. The Company reserves the right to provide additional methods of exercise depending on local developments. 
    
  Notifications 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   You should consult with your personal advisor to ensure compliance with applicable exchange control regulations in Iceland as such regulations are subject to frequent change. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Iceland. 

APPENDIX A-  8 

INDIA 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Method of Exercise.    Due to legal restrictions in India, you will not be permitted to pay the exercise price for Shares subject to the Option granted hereunder by a cashless  sell-to-cover  procedure, under which method a number of Shares with a value sufficient to cover the exercise price, brokerage fees and any applicable Tax Obligations would be sold upon exercise and you would receive only the remaining Shares subject to the exercised Option. The Company reserves the right to permit this procedure for payment of the exercise price in the future, depending on the development of local law. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    If you remit funds out of India to purchase Shares at exercise of the Option granted hereunder, you are responsible for complying with applicable exchange control regulations. In particular, it will be your obligation to determine whether approval from the Reserve Bank of India is required prior to exercise or whether you have exhausted the investment limit of US$250,000 for the relevant fiscal year. 
    
  You understand that you must repatriate any cash dividends paid on Shares acquired under the Plan to India within one hundred and eighty (180) days of receipt, and any proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan within ninety (90) days of receipt. You will receive a foreign inward remittance certificate (   FIRC   ) from the bank where you deposit the foreign currency, and you must maintain the FIRC as proof of repatriation of funds in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or the Employer requests proof of repatriation. It is your responsibility to comply with these requirements. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information  . You are required to declare foreign bank accounts and any foreign financial assets (including Shares held outside of India) in your annual tax return. It is your responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and you should consult your personal tax advisor in this regard. 
    
  IRELAND 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Nature of Grant.    This provision supplements Section XII of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting this Option, you acknowledge that the benefits received under the Plan will not be taken into account for any redundancy or unfair dismissal claim. 
    
  ITALY 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Method of Exercise.    Due to legal restrictions in Italy, you will be required to pay the exercise price for any Shares subject to the Option granted hereunder by a cashless sell-all exercise, such that all Shares will be sold immediately upon exercise and the cash proceeds of sale, less the exercise price, any Tax Obligations and broker s fees or commissions, will be remitted to you. The Company reserves the right to provide additional methods of exercise depending on local developments. 
    
  Data Privacy Notice.   The following provision replaces Section IX of the Agreement: 
    
  You understand that your Employer, the Company and any Affiliate may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, email address, date of birth, social insurance (to the extent permitted under Italian law), passport or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Company or any Affiliate, details of all Awards granted, or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, managing and administering the Plan ( Data ). 
    
  You also understand that providing the Company with Data is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that your refusal to provide such Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. The Controller of personal data processing is Amgen Inc., with registered offices at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., and, pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, its  
  
   APPENDIX A-  9 

Representative in Italy for privacy purposes is Amgen Dompe S.p.A., with registered offices at Via Tazzoli, 6 - 20154 Milan, Italy. 
    
  You understand that Data will not be publicized, but it may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions, or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan. You understand that Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company. You further understand that the Company and/or any Affiliate will transfer Data among themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, and that the Company and/or any Affiliate may each further transfer Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration, and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Data to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any Shares acquired at exercise of the Option. Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain, and transfer Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that these recipients may be located in or outside of the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere. Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Data as soon as it has completed all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan. 
    
  You understand that Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions, as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003. 
    
  The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as herein specified and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto, as the processing is necessary to performance of contractual obligations related to implementation, administration, and management of the Plan. You understand that, pursuant to Section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right to, including but not limited to, access, delete, update, correct, or terminate, for legitimate reason, the Data processing. 
    
  Furthermore, you are aware that Data will not be used for direct-marketing purposes. In addition, Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your local human resources representative. 
    
  Nature of Grant.   In accepting this Option, you acknowledge that (1) you have received a copy of the Plan, the Agreement and this Appendix; (2) you have reviewed the applicable documents in their entirety and fully understand the contents thereof; and (3) you accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Appendix. 
    
  For the Option granted, you further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and explicitly approve, without limitation, the following Sections of the Option Agreement: Section I, Section IV, Section V, Section IX (as replaced by the above consent), Section X, Section XII, Section XIII, Section XIV and Section XVII. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.   Italian residents who, at any time during the fiscal year, hold foreign financial assets (including cash and Shares) which may generate income taxable in Italy are required to report these assets on their annual tax returns (UNICO Form, RW Schedule) for the year during which the assets are held, or on a special form if no tax return is due. These reporting obligations will also apply to Italian residents who are the beneficial owners of foreign financial assets under Italian money laundering provisions. 
    
  Foreign Financial Assets Tax.   The fair market value of any Shares held outside of Italy     is subject to a foreign assets tax. The fair market value is considered to be the value of the Shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on December 31 of the applicable year in which you held the Shares (or when the Shares are acquired during the course of the year, the tax is levied in proportion to the actual days of holding over the calendar year). You should consult with your personal tax advisor about the foreign financial assets tax. 
    
  JAPAN 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   If you acquire Shares valued at more than  100,000,000 in a single transaction, you must file a Securities Acquisition Report with the Ministry of Finance through the Bank of Japan within 20 days of the purchase of the Shares. 
  
   APPENDIX A-  10 

In addition, if you pay more than  30,000,000 in a single transaction for the purchase of Shares when you exercise the Option, you must file a Payment Report with the Ministry of Finance through the Bank of Japan by the 20th day of the month following the month in which the payment was made. The precise reporting requirements vary depending on whether or not the relevant payment is made through a bank in Japan. 
    
  A Payment Report is required independently from a Securities Acquisition Report. Therefore, if the total amount that you pay upon a one-time transaction for exercising the Option and purchasing Shares exceeds  100,000,000, then you must file both a Payment Report and a Securities Acquisition Report. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.   You will be required to report to the Japanese tax authorities details of any assets held outside of Japan as of December 31st (including any Shares acquired under the Plan) to the extent such assets have a total net fair market value exceeding  50,000,000. Such report will be due by March 15 each year. You should consult with your personal tax advisor as to whether the reporting obligation applies to you and whether you will be required to include in the report details of any outstanding Options, Shares or cash that you hold. 
    
  JORDAN 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  KOREA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   You are required to repatriate any proceeds of US$500,000 or more in a single transaction realized from the sale of Shares or the receipt of dividends to Korea within three (3) years of sale/receipt. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.   You are required to declare all foreign financial accounts (  e.g.   non-Korean bank accounts, brokerage accounts holding Shares, etc.) to the Korean tax authority and file a report regarding such accounts if the monthly balance of such accounts exceeds KRW1,000,000,000 (or an equivalent amount in foreign currency) on any month-end date during a calendar year. It is your responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and you should consult your personal tax advisor to ensure compliance with this requirement. 
    
  LATVIA 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  LEBANON 
    
  Securities Law Information.   The Plan does not constitute the marketing or offering of securities in Lebanon pursuant to Law No. 161 (2011), the Capital Markets Law. Offerings under the Plan are being made only to eligible employees of the Employer, the Company or an Affiliate. 
    
  LITHUANIA 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  MEXICO 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Acknowledgement of the Agreement.    In accepting the Option granted hereunder, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan, have reviewed the Plan and the Option Agreement, including this Appendix, in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement, including this Appendix. You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve the terms and conditions of Section XII of the Agreement, in which the following is clearly described and established: 
    
  (1)    Your participation in the Plan does not constitute an acquired right. 
    
           (2) 
    The Plan and your participation in the Plan are offered by Amgen Inc. on a wholly discretionary basis. 
     
   APPENDIX A-  11 

(3)    Your participation in the Plan is voluntary. 
    
           (4) 
    Amgen Inc. and its Affiliates are not responsible for any decrease in the value of the Option granted and/or Shares issued under the Plan. 
       
  Labor Law Acknowledgement and Policy Statement.    In accepting the Option granted hereunder, you expressly recognize that Amgen Inc., with registered offices at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of Shares do not constitute an employment relationship between you and Amgen Inc. since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your sole employer is Amgen Latin America Services, S.A. de C.V. (   Amgen-Mexico   ). Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan do not establish any rights between you and your Employer, Amgen-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by Amgen-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment. 
    
  You further understand that your participation in the Plan is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of Amgen Inc.; therefore, Amgen Inc. reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation in the Plan at any time without any liability to you. 
    
  Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against Amgen Inc. for any compensation or damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to Amgen Inc., its Affiliates, shareholders, officers, agents or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise. 
    
  Spanish Translation 
    
  Reconocimiento del Otorgamiento.    Al aceptar cualquier Opci n bajo el presente documento, usted reconoce que ha recibido una copia del Plan, que ha revisado el mismo en su totalidad, as  como tambi n el Acuerdo de Opci n, incluyendo este Ap ndice, adem s que comprende y est  de acuerdo con todas las disposiciones tanto del Plan y del Opci n, incluyendo este Ap ndice. Asimismo, usted reconoce que ha le do y manifiesta espec ficamente y expresamente la conformidad con los t rminos y condiciones establecidos en la Secci n XII del Acuerdo de Opci n, en los que se establece y describe claramente que: 
    
           (1) 
    Su participaci n en el Plan de ninguna manera constituye un derecho adquirido. 
       
           (2) 
    El Plan y su participaci n en el mismo son ofrecidos por Amgen Inc. de forma completamente discrecional. 
       
  (3)    Su participaci n en el Plan es voluntaria. 
    
           (4) 
    Amgen Inc. y sus Afiliados no son responsables de ninguna disminuci n en el valor de la opci n otorgada y/o de las Acciones Comunes emitidas mediante el Plan. 
       
  Reconocimiento de la Ley Laboral y Declaraci n de Pol tica.   Al aceptar cualquier Opci n bajo el presente, usted reconoce expresamente que Amgen Inc., con oficinas registradas localizadas en One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., es la  nica responsable de la administraci n del Plan y que su participaci n en el mismo y la adquisici n de Acciones Comunes no constituyen de ninguna manera una relaci n laboral entre usted y Amgen Inc., debido a que su participaci n en el Plan es  nicamente una relaci n comercial y que su  nico empleador es Amgen Latin America Services, S.A. de C.V. ( Amgen-M xico ). Derivado de lo anterior, usted reconoce expresamente que el Plan y los beneficios a su favor que pudieran derivar de la participaci n en el mismo, no establecen ning n derecho entre usted y su empleador, Amgen - M xico, y no forman parte de las condiciones laborales y/o los beneficios otorgados por Amgen - M xico, y cualquier modificaci n del Plan o la terminaci n del mismo no constituir  un cambio o desmejora de los t rminos y condiciones de su trabajo. 
    
  Asimismo, usted entiende que su participaci n en el Plan es resultado de la decisi n unilateral y discrecional de Amgen Inc., por lo tanto, Amgen Inc. se reserva el derecho absoluto de modificar y/o descontinuar su participaci n en el Plan en cualquier momento y sin ninguna responsabilidad para usted. 
    
  Finalmente, usted manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho que origine una demanda en contra de Amgen Inc., por cualquier compensaci n o da os y perjuicios, en relaci n con cualquier disposici n del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en consecuencia usted exime amplia y completamente a Amgen Inc. de toda responsabilidad, como as  tambi n a sus Afiliadas, accionistas, directores, agentes o representantes legales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir. 
  
   APPENDIX A-  12 

MOROCCO 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Method of Exercise.   Due to legal restrictions in Morocco, you will be required to pay the exercise price for any Shares subject to the Option granted hereunder by a cashless sell-all exercise, such that all Shares will be sold immediately upon exercise and the cash proceeds of sale, less the exercise price, any Tax Obligations and broker s fees or commissions, will be remitted to you. The Company reserves the right to provide additional methods of exercise depending on local developments. 
    
  Exchange Control Requirements.   You understand and agree that, pursuant to local exchange control requirements, you will be required to repatriate the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares issued upon exercise of the Option to Morocco. You further understand that such repatriation of your cash proceeds may be effectuated through a bank account established by the Company or any Affiliate, including your Employer, and you hereby consent and agree that any proceeds from the sale of the Shares may be transferred to such bank account prior to being delivered to you. If repatriation of your cash proceeds is not effectuated through a bank account established by the Company or any Affiliate, including your Employer, you hereby agree to maintain your own records proving repatriation and to provide copies of these records upon request by the Company or any Affiliate, including the Employer, or the Moroccan Exchange Control Office (  Office des Changes  ). Further, you acknowledge and understand that the net proceeds that you realize from your participation in the Plan must be converted from U.S. dollars to Dirham, and that neither the Company nor any Affiliate, including the Employer, has any obligation to, but may nonetheless, convert the net proceeds on your behalf using any exchange rate chosen by the Company; if funds are so converted, they will be converted as soon as practicable after sale, which may not be immediately after the sale date. Further, if such currency conversion occurs, you will bear the risk of any fluctuation in the U.S. dollar/Dirham exchange rate between the date you realize U.S. dollar proceeds from your participation in the Plan and the date that you receive cash proceeds converted to Dirham. You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in Morocco. 
    
  NETHERLANDS 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information. 
                         
    Attention! This investment falls outside AFM supervision. 
        
    No prospectus required for this activity. 

NEW ZEALAND 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    Warning. This is an offer of Amgen Inc. Shares. Shares give you a stake in the ownership of Amgen Inc. You may receive a return if Dividends are paid. Amgen Inc. Shares are quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. This means you may be able to sell them on the NASDAQ Global Select Market if there are interested buyers. You may get less than you invested. The price will depend on the demand for the Shares.  
    
  If Amgen Inc. runs into financial difficulties and is wound up, you will be paid only after all creditors have been paid. You may lose some or all of your investment. 
    
  New Zealand law normally requires people who offer financial products to give information to investors before they invest. This information is designed to help investors to make an informed decision. 
    
  The usual rules do not apply to this offer because it is made under an employee share purchase scheme. As a result, you may not be given all the information usually required. You will also have fewer other legal protections for this investment. 
    
  Ask questions, read all documents carefully, and seek independent financial advice before committing yourself. 

APPENDIX A-  13 

In addition, you are hereby notified that the documents listed below are available for review at the web address listed below: 

The Company s most recent Annual Report (Form 10-K), Quarterly Report (Form 10-Q) and published financial statements (in Form 10-K or Form 10-Q): www.amgen.com 

The Plan, the Plan Prospectus and the Agreement: www.benefits.ml.com  

A copy of the above documents will be sent to you free of charge upon written request to [insert HR or similar email address]. 
       
  NORWAY 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  PERU 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Nature of Grant.   This provision supplements Section XII of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting this Option, you acknowledge that the Option is being granted   ex gratia   to you with the purpose of rewarding you. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The grant of the Option is considered a private offering in Peru; therefore, it is not subject to registration. 
    
  POLAND 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    Polish residents holding foreign securities (including Shares) and maintaining accounts abroad must file reports with the National Bank of Poland if the aggregate value of Shares and cash held in such foreign accounts exceeds PLN 7,000,000. If required, the reports are due on a quarterly basis by the 20th day following the end of each quarter and must be filed on special forms available on the website of the National Bank of Poland. In addition, Polish residents are required to transfer funds through a bank account in Poland if the transferred amount in any single transaction exceeds a specified threshold (currently  15,000). You must store all documents connected with any foreign exchange transactions you engage in for a period of five (5) years from the end of the year when such transactions were made. Penalties may apply for failure to comply with exchange control requirements. 
    
  PORTUGAL 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Consent to Receive Information in English.   You hereby expressly declare that you have full knowledge of the English language and have read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions established in the Plan and Agreement. 
    
  Conhecimento da Lingua.   Por meio do presente, eu declaro expressamente que tem pleno conhecimento da l ngua inglesa e que li, compreendi e livremente aceitei e concordei com os termos e condi  es estabelecidas no Plano e no Acordo. 

APPENDIX A-  14 

PUERTO RICO 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  ROMANIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   Any transfer of funds exceeding  15,000 (whether via one transaction or several transactions that appear to be linked to each other) must be reported to the National Office for Prevention and Control of Money Laundering on specific forms by the relevant bank or financial institution. If you deposit proceeds from the sale of Shares or the receipt of dividends in a bank account in Romania, you may be required to provide the Romanian bank assisting with the transaction with appropriate documentation explaining the source of the income. You should consult with a legal advisor to determine whether you will be required to submit such documentation to the Romanian bank. 
    
  RUSSIA 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Method of Exercise.    Due to legal restrictions in Russia, you will be required to pay the exercise price for any Shares subject to the Option granted hereunder by a cashless sell-all exercise, such that all Shares will be sold immediately upon exercise and the cash proceeds of sale, less the exercise price, any Tax Obligations and broker s fees or commissions, will be remitted to you. The Company reserves the right to provide additional methods of exercise depending on local developments. 
    
  Exchange Control Requirements.    You understand and agree that, pursuant to Russian exchange control requirements, you will be required to repatriate to Russia the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares issued to you upon exercise of the Option, unless such proceeds will be paid into and held in your brokerage account in the U.S., for example, for reinvestment purposes. As of January 1, 2018, cash proceeds from the sale of shares listed on one of the foreign stock exchanges on the list provided for by the Russian Federal law  On the Securities Market  (such as Shares acquired under the Plan) can also be paid directly to a foreign bank or brokerage account opened with a bank located in an Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (   OECD   ) or Financial Action Task Force (   FATF   ) country. Other statutory exceptions may apply, and you should consult with your personal legal advisory in this regard. 
    
  You agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in Russia. 
    
  Securities Law Requirements.    The Option granted hereunder, the Agreement, including this Appendix, the Plan and all other materials you may receive regarding your participation in the Plan or the Option granted hereunder do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia. The issuance of Shares under the Plan has not and will not be registered in Russia; therefore, Shares may not be offered or placed in public circulation in Russia. 
    
  In no event will Shares acquired under the Plan be delivered to you in Russia; all Shares will be maintained on your behalf in the United States. 
    
  You are not permitted to sell any Shares acquired under the Plan directly to a Russian legal entity or resident. 
    
  Data Privacy Notice.   The following provision supplements Section IX of the Agreement: 
    
  You understand and agree that you must complete and return a Consent to Processing of Personal Data (the    Consent   ) form to the Company. Further, you understand and agree that if you do not complete and return a Consent form to the Company, the Company will not be able to administer or maintain the Option. Therefore, you understand that refusing to complete a Consent form or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Russian residents are required to notify Russian tax authorities within one (1) month of opening, closing or changing the details of a foreign account. Russian residents also are required to report (i) the beginning and ending balances in such a foreign bank account each year and (ii) transactions related to such a foreign account during the year to the Russian tax authorities, on or before June 1 of the following year. The tax authorities can require you to provide  
  
   APPENDIX A-  15 

appropriate supporting documents related to transactions in a foreign bank account. You are encouraged to contact your personal advisor before remitting your proceeds from participation in the Plan to Russia as exchange control requirements may change. 
    
  Anti-Corruption Legislation Information.   Individuals holding public office in Russia, as well as their spouses and dependent children, may be prohibited from opening or maintaining a foreign brokerage or bank account and holding any securities, whether acquired directly or indirectly, in a foreign company (including Shares acquired under the Plan). You should consult with your personal legal advisor to determine whether this restriction applies to your circumstances. 
    
  SINGAPORE 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Restriction on Sale and Transferability.   You hereby agree that any Shares acquired pursuant to the Option will not be offered for sale in Singapore prior to the six-month anniversary of the Grant Date, unless such sale or offer is made pursuant to one or more exemptions under Part XIII Division 1 Subdivision (4) (other than section 280) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chap. 289, 2006 Ed.) ( SFA ). 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.   The grant of the Option is being made pursuant to the  Qualifying Person  exemption under section 273(1)(f) of the SFA, on which basis it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the SFA, and is not made with a view to the Option being subsequently offered for sale to any other party. The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. 
    
  Chief Executive Officer and Director Notification Requirement.   The Chief Executive Officer (   CEO   ) and the directors, associate directors and shadow directors of a Singapore Affiliate are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act. The CEO, directors, associate directors and shadow directors must notify the Singapore Affiliate in writing of an interest (  e.g.  , Options, Shares, etc.) in the Company or any related company within two (2) business days of (i) its acquisition or disposal, (ii) any change in a previously disclosed interest (  e.g.,   when the Shares are sold), or (iii) becoming the CEO or a director, associate director or shadow director. 
    
  SLOVAK REPUBLIC 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  SLOVENIA 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  SPAIN 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Nature of Grant.    The following provision supplements Section XII of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting this Option, you consent to participation in the Plan and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan. 
    
  You understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and in its sole discretion decided to grant the Option under the Plan to individuals who may be members of the Board or Employees of the Company or its Affiliates throughout the world. The decision is a limited decision, which is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that the Option granted will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any of its Affiliates on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement, including this Appendix. Consequently, you understand that the Option granted hereunder is given on the assumption and condition that it shall not become a part of any employment contract (either with the Company or any of its Affiliates) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever. Further, you understand and freely accept that there is no guarantee that any benefit whatsoever shall arise from any gratuitous and discretionary grant of the Option since the future value of the Option and the underlying Shares is unknown and unpredictable. In addition, you understand that the Option granted hereunder would not be made but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you understand, acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be  
  
   APPENDIX A-  16 

mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any grant of an Option or right to an Option shall be null and void. 
    
  Further, the vesting of the Option is expressly conditioned on your continued and active rendering of service, such that if your employment terminates for any reason whatsoever, the Option may cease vesting immediately, in whole or in part, effective on the date of your termination of employment (unless otherwise specifically provided in Section IV of the Agreement). This will be the case, for example, even if (1) you are considered to be unfairly dismissed without good cause (  i.e.  , subject to a  despido improcedente  (2) you are dismissed for disciplinary or objective reasons or due to a collective dismissal; (3) you terminate service due to a change of work location, duties or any other employment or contractual condition; (4) you terminate service due to a unilateral breach of contract by the Company or an Affiliate; or (5) your employment terminates for any other reason whatsoever. Consequently, upon termination of your employment for any of the above reasons, you may automatically lose any rights to Options that were not vested on the date of your termination of employment, as described in the Plan and the Agreement. 
  You acknowledge that you have read and specifically accept the conditions referred to in Section IV of the Agreement. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.   No  offer of securities to the public,  as defined under Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the Spanish territory. The Agreement (including this Appendix) has not been nor will it be registered with the   Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores  , and does not constitute a public offering prospectus. 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   If you acquire Shares under the Plan, you must declare the acquisition to the   Direccion General de Comercio e Inversiones   (the    DGCI   ). If you acquire the Shares through the use of a Spanish financial institution, that institution will automatically make the declaration to the DGCI for you; otherwise, you will be required to make the declaration by filing a D-6 form. You must declare ownership of any Shares with the DGCI each January while the Shares are owned and must also report, in January, any sale of Shares that occurred in the previous year for which the report is being made, unless the sale proceeds exceed the applicable threshold, in which case the report is due within one (1) month of the sale. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You are required to declare electronically to the Bank of Spain any securities accounts (including brokerage accounts held abroad), as well as the Shares held in such accounts if the value of the transactions during the prior tax year or the balances in such accounts as of December 31 of the prior tax year exceed  1,000,000. 
    
  To the extent that you hold Shares and/or have bank accounts outside of Spain with a value in excess of  50,000 (for each type of asset) as of December 31 each year, you will be required to report information on such assets in your tax return (tax form 720) for such year.  After such Shares and/or accounts are initially reported, the reporting obligation will apply for subsequent years only if the value of any previously-reported Shares or accounts increases by more than  20,000 or if you sell or otherwise dispose of any previously-reported Shares or accounts. If the value of such Shares and/or accounts as of December 31 does not exceed  50,000, a summarized form of declaration may be presented. 
    
  SWEDEN 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  SWITZERLAND 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The Option is not intended to be publicly offered in or from Switzerland. Because this is a private offering in Switzerland, the Option is not subject to registration in Switzerland. Neither this document nor any other materials relating to the Option (i) constitutes a prospectus as such term is understood pursuant to article 652a of the Swiss Code of Obligations, (ii) may be publicly distributed nor otherwise made publicly available in Switzerland or (iii) have been or will be filed with, approved or supervised by any Swiss regulatory authority, including the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority ( FINMA ). 
    
  TAIWAN 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   You may acquire and remit foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Shares or the receipt of dividends) up to US$5,000,000 per year without justification. If the transaction amount is TWD500,000 or more in a  
  
   APPENDIX A-  17 

single transaction, you must submit a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form. If the transaction amount is US$500,000 or more in a single transaction, you must also provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank. 
    
  THAILAND 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   If you remit funds out of Thailand to exercise your Option, it is your responsibility to comply with applicable exchange control laws. Under current exchange control regulations, if you are a Thai resident, you may remit funds out of Thailand up to US$1,000,000 per year to purchase Shares (and otherwise invest in securities abroad) by submitting an application to an authorized agent, (  i.e.  , a commercial bank authorized by the Bank of Thailand to engage in the purchase, exchange and withdrawal of foreign currency). The application includes the Foreign Exchange Transaction Form, a letter describing the Option, a copy of the Plan and related documents, and evidence showing the nexus between the Company and your Employer. If you use a method of exercise that does not involve remitting funds out of Thailand, this requirement does not apply. 
    
  Further, if proceeds from the sale of Shares or the receipt of any dividends exceed US$50,000 in a single transaction, you must (i) immediately repatriate such funds to Thailand and (ii) report the inward remittance to the Bank of Thailand on a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form. In addition, within three hundred and sixty (360) days of repatriation, you must either convert any funds repatriated to Thailand to Thai Baht or deposit the funds in a foreign exchange account with a Thai bank. 
    
  TURKEY 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.   The Option is made available only to Employees of the Company and its Affiliates, and the offer of participation in the Plan is a private offering. The grant of the Option and the issuance of Shares at exercise takes place outside of Turkey. 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   Any activity related to investments in foreign securities (  e.g.  , the sale of Shares under the Plan or the receipt of cash dividends paid in cash) must be conducted through a bank or financial intermediary institution licensed by the Turkish Capital Markets Board and should be reported to the Turkish Capital Markets Board by the bank or intermediary assisting with the transaction. You should contact a personal legal advisor for further information regarding these requirements. 
    
  UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.   Options under the Plan are granted only to select Board members and Employees of the Company and its Affiliates and are for the purpose of providing equity incentives. The Plan and the Agreement are intended for distribution only to such Board members and Employees and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other person. You should conduct your own due diligence on the Options offered pursuant to this Agreement. If you do not understand the contents of the Plan and/or the Agreement, you should consult an authorized financial adviser. The Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority and the Dubai Financial Services Authority have no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any documents in connection with the Plan. Further, the Ministry of the Economy and the Dubai Department of Economic Development have not approved the Plan or the Agreement nor taken steps to verify the information set out therein, and have no responsibility for such documents. 
    
  UNITED KINGDOM 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Tax Withholding.   This provision supplements Section V of the Agreement: 
    
  You agree that if you do not pay or your Employer or the Company does not withhold from you, the full amount of income tax that you owe upon exercise of the Option, or the release or assignment of the Option for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Option (the    Taxable Event   ) within ninety (90) days after the end of the tax year in which the Taxable Event occurs, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (the  Due Date ), then the amount that should have been withheld and/or paid shall constitute a loan owed by you to your Employer, effective on the Due Date. You agree that the loan will bear interest at the official rate of HM Revenue and Customs  
  
   APPENDIX A-  18 

(   HMRC   ) and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or your Employer may recover it at any time thereafter (subject to Section V of the Agreement) by any of the means described in Section V of the Agreement. You also authorize the Company to delay the issuance of any Shares to you unless and until the loan is repaid in full. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are an executive officer or director within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time, the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply. In the event that you are an executive officer or director and income tax is not collected from you by the Due Date, the amount of any uncollected income tax may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and national insurance contributions (   NICs   ) may be payable. You acknowledge that you are responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to HMRC under the self-assessment regime and for reimbursing your Employer for the value of any NICs due on this additional benefit, which the Company or your Employer may recover from you by any of the means set forth in Section V of the Agreement. 
    
  If the maximum applicable withholding rate is used, any over-withheld amount may be credited to you by the Company or your Employer (with no entitlement to the Common Stock equivalent) or if not so credited, you may seek a refund from the local tax authorities. 
    
  Joint Election.   As a condition of the Option granted hereunder, you agree to accept any liability for secondary Class 1 National Insurance Contributions (the    Employer NICs   ), which may be payable by the Company or your Employer with respect to the exercise of the Option and issuance of Shares subject to the Option, the assignment or release of the Option for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Option. 
       
  Without limitation to the foregoing, you agree to make an election (the    Election   ), in the form specified and/or approved for such election by HMRC, that the liability for your Employer NICs payments on any such gains shall be transferred to you to the fullest extent permitted by law. You further agree to execute such other elections as may be required between you and any successor to the Company and/or your Employer. You hereby authorize the Company and your Employer to withhold such Employer NICs by any of the means set forth in Section V of the Agreement. 
    
  Failure by you to enter into an Election, withdrawal of approval of the Election by HMRC or a joint revocation of the Election by you and the Company or your Employer, as applicable, shall be grounds for the forfeiture and cancellation of the Option, without any liability to the Company or your Employer. 
    
  UNITED STATES 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Nature of Grant  . The following provision replaces Section IV(B)(1) of the Agreement: 
    
  (1)    termination of your employment    shall mean the last date you are either an active employee of the Company or an Affiliate or actively engaged as a Director of the Company or an Affiliate; in the event of termination of your employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), your right to receive options and vest under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively employed; provided, however, that such right will be extended by any notice period mandated by law (e.g. the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act ( WARN Act ) notice period or similar periods pursuant to local law) and any paid administrative leave (as applicable), unless the Company shall provide you with written notice otherwise before the commencement of such notice period or leave. Your right, if any, to exercise the Option after termination of employment will be measured by the date of termination of your active employment; provided, however, that such right will be extended by any notice period mandated by law (e.g. the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act ( WARN Act ) notice period or similar periods pursuant to local law) and any paid administrative leave, unless the Company shall provide you with written notice otherwise before the commencement of such notice period or leave. 
    
  VENEZUELA 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Method of Exercise.    Due to the evolving regulatory requirements in Venezuela, you may be required to pay the exercise price for any Shares subject to the Option granted hereunder by a cashless sell-all exercise, as may be required under any current exchange control restrictions, such that all Shares will be sold immediately upon exercise and the cash proceeds of sale, less the exercise price, any Tax Obligations and broker s fees or commissions, would be remitted to you. The Company reserves the right to provide additional methods of exercise depending on local developments 

APPENDIX A-  19 

NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.   The Option granted under the Plan and the Shares issued under the Plan are offered to you as a personal, private, exclusive and non-transferable transaction and is made to you because you meet the eligibility requirements set forth in the Plan. This offering does not qualify as a public offering under the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and, therefore, prior authorization from the National Superintendent of Securities is not required. 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   Exchange control restrictions in force in Venezuela at any particular time may limit the ability to exercise the Option or to remit funds into Venezuela following the receipt of cash proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired upon exercise. You are responsible for complying with exchange control laws in Venezuela and neither the Company, the Employer nor any Affiliate will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws.  Any Shares acquired under the Plan are intended to be a personal investment and are not granted for the purposes of reselling the Shares and converting the proceeds into foreign currency. Because exchange control laws and regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult with your personal legal advisor before accepting the Option to ensure compliance with current regulations. 
  
   APPENDIX A-  20 

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.5>
 3
 amgn-ex105_20161231x10k.htm
 FORM OF GLOBAL RSU AGREEMENT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.5 

Form of Award Notice 
    
  [  The information set forth in this Award Notice will be contained on the related pages on Merrill Lynch Benefits Website (or the website of any successor company to Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB). This Award Notice shall be replaced by the equivalent pages on such website. References to Award Notice in this Agreement shall then refer to the equivalent pages on such website.  ]  
    
  This notice of Award (the    Award Notice   ) sets forth certain details relating to the grant by the Company to you of the Award identified below, pursuant to the Plan. The terms of this Award Notice are incorporated into the Agreement that accompanies this Award Notice and made part of the Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Notice that are not otherwise defined in this Award Notice have the meanings given to such terms in the Agreement.  
       
  Employee:         
  Employee ID:             
  Address:             
  Award Type:             
  Grant ID:         
           Plan: 
    Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 2009 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and/or restated from time to time 
     Grant Date:             
           Grant Price:  
    $________ 
     Number of Shares: 
  Number of Units 
  Vesting Date:            Means the vesting date indicated in the Vesting Schedule 
           Vesting Schedule: 
    Means the schedule of vesting set forth under Vesting Details  
              Vesting Details: 
    Means the presentation (tabular or otherwise) of the Vesting Date and the quantity of Shares vesting 
       
  IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF THE AWARD AND THE REQUIREMENT TO OPEN A BROKERAGE ACCOUNT    1   :   
    
  RESIDENTS OF THE U.S. AND PUERTO RICO  :  Please read this Award Notice, the Plan and the Agreement (collectively, the    Grant Documents   ) carefully.  If you, as a resident of the U.S. or Puerto Rico, do   not   wish to receive this Award and/or you do   not   consent and agree to the terms and conditions on which this Award is offered, as set forth in the Grant Documents, then you must reject the Award by contacting the Merrill Lynch call center (800) 97AMGEN (800-972-6436) within the U.S., Puerto Rico and Canada or +1 (609) 818-8910 from all other countries (Merrill Lynch will accept the charges for your call) no later than the forty-fifth calendar day following the day on which this Award Notice is made available to you, in which case the Award will be cancelled.  For the purpose of determining the forty-five calendar days, Day 1 will be the day   immediately   following the day on which this Award Notice is made available to you. Your failure to notify the Company of your rejection of the Award within this specified period will constitute your acceptance of the Award and your agreement with all terms and conditions of the Award, as set forth in the Grant Documents. If you agree to the terms and conditions of your grant and you desire to accept it, then no further action is needed on your part to accept the grant. However, you must still open a brokerage account as directed by the Company, by 1:00 pm Pacific Time on or before the date that is 11 months after the date of grant. This step is necessary to process transactions related to your equity grant. If you do not open a brokerage account by this deadline,   your grant will be cancelled  . 

_________________________ 
   1    This provision is only for use on the form of grant used for the U.S. and Puerto Rico. 

RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 
    
  THE SPECIFIC TERMS OF YOUR GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS ARE FOUND IN THE PAGES RELATING TO THE GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS FOUND ON MERRILL LYNCH BENEFITS WEBSITE (OR THE WEBSITE OF ANY SUCCESSOR COMPANY TO MERRILL LYNCH BANK   TRUST CO., FSB) (THE    AWARD NOTICE   ) WHICH ACCOMPANIES THIS DOCUMENT. THE TERMS OF THE AWARD NOTICE ARE INCORPORATED INTO THIS RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT. 
    
  On the Grant Date specified in the Award Notice, Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the    Company   ), has granted to you, the grantee named in the Award Notice, under the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 2009 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and/or restated from time to time (the    Plan   ), the Number of Units with respect to the number of shares of the $0.0001 par value common stock of the Company (the    Shares   ) specified in the Award Notice, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, any special terms and conditions for your country set forth in the attached   Appendix A   and the Award Notice (together, the    Agreement   ). The Units shall constitute Restricted Stock Units under Section 9.5 of the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan. 
    
  I.  Vesting Schedule and Termination of Units  . 
    
  a.  General.    Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, on each Vesting Date, the Number of Units indicated on the Vesting Schedule shall vest, provided that you have remained continuously and actively employed with the Company or an Affiliate (as defined in the Plan) through each applicable Vesting Date, unless (i) [your employment has terminated due to your Voluntary Termination (as defined in paragraph (d) of this Section I below) ]*   2   , [(ii)] you experience a Qualified Termination (as defined below), or (iii)[(ii)] as otherwise determined by the Company in the exercise of its discretion as provided in paragraph (f) of this Section I. The Units represent an unfunded, unsecured promise by the Company to deliver Shares. Only whole Shares shall be issued upon vesting of the Units, and the Company shall be under no obligation to issue any fractional Shares to you. If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated for any reason or for no reason, including if your active employment is terminated by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause (as defined below), or in the event of any other termination of your active employment caused directly or indirectly by the Company or an Affiliate, except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b), (c), [(d), ]*   (1)    (e) or (f) of this Section I below, your unvested Units shall automatically expire and terminate on the date of termination of your active employment. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Vesting Schedule may be accelerated (by notice in writing) by the Company in its sole discretion at any time during the term of the Units. In addition, if not prohibited by local law, vesting may be suspended by the Company in its sole discretion during a leave of absence as provided from time to time according to Company policies and practices. 

_________________________ 
   2    Paragraph (d) of Section I of this Agreement is not applicable to awards identified by the Administrator as new hire, retention, special or promotion grants and the provisions of such paragraph shall be reserved and references thereto identified by an asterisk (*) shall be omitted from the agreements evidencing such grants. 

b.  Permanent and Total Disability.   Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (a) above, if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below), then the vesting of Units granted under this Agreement shall be accelerated, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, to vest as of the day immediately preceding such termination of your employment with respect to all Units granted hereunder, except that if the Units were granted in the calendar year in which such termination occurs, the Units shall be accelerated to vest with respect to a number of Units equal to the number of Units subject to this Agreement multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete months you remained continuously and actively employed during such calendar year, and the denominator of which is twelve (12). 
    
  c.  Death  .  Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (a) above, if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your death, then the vesting of Units granted under this Agreement shall be accelerated to vest as of the day immediately preceding your death with respect to all Units granted hereunder, except that if the Units were granted in the calendar year in which your death occurs the Units shall be accelerated to vest with respect to a number of Units equal to the number of Units subject to this Agreement multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete months you remained continuously and actively employed during such calendar year, and the denominator of which is twelve (12). 
    
  d.  [Retirement  .      Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (a) above, if you terminate your employment with the Company or an Affiliate due to your voluntary termination (and such voluntary termination is not the result of Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below)) after you are at least sixty-five (65) years of age, or after you are at least fifty-five (55) years of age and have been an employee of the Company and/or an Affiliate for at least ten (10) years in the aggregate as determined by the Company in its sole discretion according to Company policies and practices as in effect from time to time (   Voluntary Termination   ), then the Units will vest pursuant to the Vesting Schedule without regard to the termination of employment prior to the Vesting Date, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, with respect to all Units granted hereunder; provided, however, that if the Units were granted in the calendar year in which the Voluntary Termination occurs, the Units will vest pursuant to the Vesting Schedule provided in the Award Notice only with respect to a number of Units equal to the number of Units subject to this Agreement multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete months you remained continuously and actively employed during such calendar year, and the denominator of which is twelve (12); notwithstanding the definition of Voluntary Termination set forth above, if the Company receives an opinion of counsel that there has been a legal judgment and/or legal development in your jurisdiction that would likely result in the favorable treatment upon Voluntary Termination described above being deemed unlawful and/or discriminatory, then the Committee will not apply the favorable treatment described above.][Reserved]*   3   
    
  e.  Qualified Termination after a Change of Control  .  Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (a) above, in the event of a Qualified Termination (as defined below), then, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the vesting of Units granted under this Agreement shall be accelerated to vest as of the day immediately prior to the Qualified Termination.  

_________________________ 
   3    Paragraph( d) of Section I of this Agreement is not applicable to awards identified by the Administrator as new hire, retention, special or promotion grants and the provisions of such paragraph shall be reserved and references thereto identified by an asterisk (*) shall be omitted from the agreements evidencing such grants. 

f.  Continued Vesting  .  Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (a) above, the Company may in its sole discretion at any time during the term of this Agreement, in writing, otherwise provide that the Units will vest pursuant to the Vesting Schedule without regard to the termination of employment prior to the Vesting Date, subject to any terms and conditions that the Company may determine. 
    
  For purposes of this Agreement:  
    
  (i)    termination of your active employment    shall mean the last date that you are either an active employee of the Company or an Affiliate or actively engaged as a Director of the Company or an Affiliate; in the event of termination of your employment (whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are working or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), your right to receive Units and vest under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively providing services and will not be extended by any notice period (  e.g.  , active employment would not include any period of  garden leave  or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any). The Company shall have exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing services for purposes of the Units (including whether you may still be considered to be providing services while on a leave of absence);  
    
  (ii)       Cause    shall mean (i) your conviction of a felony (or similar crime under applicable law, as determined by the Company), or (ii) your engaging in conduct that constitutes willful gross neglect or willful gross misconduct in carrying out your duties, resulting, in either case, in material economic harm to the Company or any Affiliate, unless you believed in good faith that such conduct was in, or not contrary to, the best interests of the Company or any Affiliate. For purposes of clause (ii) above, no act, or failure to act, on your part shall be deemed  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by you not in good faith; 
    
  (iii)     Permanent and Total Disability    shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of your employment by (i) the U.S. Social Security Administration, (ii) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate, (iii) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate, or (iv) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case; 
    
  (iv)    Qualified Termination    shall mean  
    
  (a)    if you are an employee who participates in the Change of Control Plan (as defined below), your termination of employment within two (2) years following a Change of Control (i) by the Company other than for Cause, Disability (as defined below), or as a result of your death or (ii) by you for Good Reason (as defined in the Change of Control Plan); or 
    
  (b)    if you are an employee who does not participate in the Change of Control Plan or the Change of Control Plan is no longer in effect, your termination of employment within two (2) years following a Change of Control by the Company other than for Cause, Disability (as defined below), or as a result of your death; 
    
  (v)    Change of Control    shall mean the occurrence of any of the following: 
    
  (A)    the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or  group,  within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (excluding, for this purpose, the Company or any of its Affiliates, or any employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates which acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of fifty percent (50%) or more of either the then-outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the Company s then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or 
    
  (B)     individuals who, as of April 2, 1991, constitute the Board (the    Incumbent Board   ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to April 2, 1991, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company s stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the Directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of the Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or 
    
  (C)    the consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger, consolidation, (in each case, with respect to which persons who were the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, immediately thereafter, own more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the  

election of directors of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company s then-outstanding voting securities) or a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or of the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 
    
  Notwithstanding anything herein or in the Agreement to the contrary, if a Change of Control constitutes a payment event with respect to any Unit that is subject to United States income tax and which provides for a deferral of compensation that is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the transaction or event described in subsection (A), (B), (C) or (D) above must also constitute a  change in control event,  as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5), in order to constitute a Change of Control for purposes of payment of such Unit. 
    
  (vi)        Change of Control Plan    shall mean the Company s change of control and severance plan, including the Amgen Inc. Change of Control Severance Plan, as amended and restated, effective as of December 9, 2010 (and any subsequent amendments thereto), or equivalent plan governing the provision of benefits to eligible employees upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (including resulting from a termination of employment that occurs within a specified time period following a Change of Control), as in effect immediately prior to a Change of Control; and 
    
  (vii)       Disability    shall be determined in accordance with the Company s long-term disability plan as in effect immediately prior to a Change of Control. 
    
  I.  Form and Timing of Payment  .  Subject to satisfaction of tax or similar obligations as provided for in Section III, any vested Units shall be paid by the Company in Shares (on a one-to-one basis) or in cash based on the Fair Market Value of the number of Shares subject to the vested Units as of the applicable Vesting Date, or in a combination of Shares and cash, as determined by the Administrator at any time prior to payment and in its discretion, as soon as practicable, and in any event within 90 days, after the applicable Vesting Date, which for purposes of this Section II, includes the date of any accelerated vesting, if any (the    Settlement Period   ). [(For the avoidance of doubt, in the event that any Units continue to vest following a Voluntary Termination in accordance with Section 1(d) above, the Vesting Date(s) for purposes of payments pursuant to this Section II shall be the regularly scheduled Vesting Dates following such termination.]*   4     
    
  II.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, in the event that (i) the vesting and settlement of Units is conditioned on your execution and delivery of a release and (ii) the Settlement Period commences in one calendar year and ends in the next calendar year, the Units will be paid in the second calendar year. Shares issued in respect of a Unit shall be deemed to be issued in consideration of past services actually rendered by you to the Company or an Affiliate or for its benefit for which you have not previously been compensated or for future services to be rendered, as the case may be, which the Company deems to have a value at least equal to the aggregate par value thereof. 
    
  III.  Tax Withholding; Issuance of Certificates  .  Regardless of any action the Company or your actual employer (the    Employer   ) takes with respect to any or all income tax (including federal, state and local taxes), social insurance, payroll tax, fringe benefit tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you (   Tax Obligations )  , you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax Obligations is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount, if any, actually withheld by the Company and/or your Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Obligations in connection with any aspect of the Units, including the grant of the Units, the vesting of Units, the conversion of the Units into Shares or the receipt of an equivalent cash payment, the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired at vesting and the receipt of any Dividends (as defined in Section IV, below), and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax Obligations or achieve any particular tax result. Furthermore, if you become subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction, you acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax Obligations in more than one jurisdiction. 
    
  Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you shall pay, or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or to your Employer (in their sole discretion) to satisfy all Tax Obligations. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or your Employer or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy all applicable Tax Obligations by one or a combination of the following: 
    
  (a)    withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or your Employer; or 
    
  _________________________ 
   4    Paragraph (d) of Section I of this Agreement is not applicable to awards identified by the Administrator as new hire, retention, special or promotion grants and the provisions of such paragraph shall be reserved and references thereto identified by an asterisk (*) shall be omitted from the agreements evidencing such grants. 

(b)    withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon vesting or payment of the Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); or  
    
  (c)    withholding in Shares to be issued or cash to be paid upon vesting or payment of the Units, provided that, if Shares are withheld, the Company and your Employer shall only withhold an amount of Shares with a fair market value equal to the Tax Obligations. 
    
  Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax Obligations by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates. If the Tax Obligations are satisfied by withholding in Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares is held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax Obligations due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan (any Shares withheld by the Company hereunder shall not be deemed to have been issued by the Company for any purpose under the Plan and shall remain available for issuance thereunder).  
    
  Finally, you shall pay to the Company or your Employer any amount of Tax Obligations that the Company or your Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  You agree to take any further actions and execute any additional documents as may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Section III. Notwithstanding Section II above, the Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax Obligations. 
    
  IV.  Dividend Equivalents 
    
  (a)      Crediting and Payment of Dividend Equivalents  .  Subject to this Section IV, Dividend Equivalents shall be credited on each Unit granted to you under this Agreement in the manner set forth in the remainder of this Section IV. If the Company declares one or more dividends or distributions (each, a    Dividend   ) on its Common Stock with a record date which occurs during the period commencing on the Grant Date through and including the day immediately preceding the day the shares of Common Stock subject to the Units are issued to you, whether in the form of cash, Common Stock or other property, then on the date such Dividend is paid to the Company s stockholders you shall be credited with an amount equal to the amount or fair market value of such Dividend which would have been payable to you if you held a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of your Units as of the record date for such Dividend, unless the Units have been forfeited between the record date and payment date for such Dividend. Any such Dividend Equivalents shall be credited and deemed reinvested in the Common Stock as of the Dividend payment date. Dividend Equivalents shall be payable in full shares of Common Stock, unless the Administrator determines, at any time prior to payment and in its discretion, that they shall be payable in cash. Dividend Equivalents payable with respect to fractional shares of Common Stock shall be paid in cash. 
    
  (b)      Treatment of Dividend Equivalents.    Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Section IV, any Dividend Equivalents credited to you shall be subject to all of the provisions of this Agreement which apply to the Units with respect to which they have been credited and shall be payable, if at all, at the time and to the extent that the underlying Unit becomes payable. Dividend Equivalents shall not be payable on any Units that do not vest, or are forfeited, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. 
    
  V.  Transferability  .  No benefit payable under, or interest in, this Agreement or in the Shares that are scheduled to be issued to you hereunder shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any such attempted action shall be void and no such benefit or interest shall be, in any manner, liable for, or subject to, your or your beneficiary s debts, contracts, liabilities or torts;   provided  ,   however  , nothing in this Section V shall prevent transfer (i) by will or (ii) by applicable laws of descent and distribution. 
    
  VI.  Notices  .  Any notices provided for in this Agreement or the Plan shall be given in writing or electronically and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail or equivalent foreign postal service, postage prepaid, addressed to you at such address as is currently maintained in the Company s records or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Company Stock Administrator. Such notices may be given using any automated system for the documentation, granting or exercise of Awards, such as a system using an internet website or interactive voice response, as approved by the Company. 
    
  VII.  Plan  .  This Agreement is subject to all the provisions of the Plan, which provisions are hereby made a part of this Agreement, including without limitation the provisions of Section 9.5 of the Plan relating to Restricted Stock Units, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control. 

VIII.  Governing Law and Venue  .  The terms of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises hereunder, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of the State of Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States for the federal district located in the State of Delaware, and no other courts, where this Agreement is made and/or to be performed. 
    
  IX.  Code Section 409A.    The time and form of payment of the Units is intended to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and this Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with Code Section 409A and U.S. Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Grant Date. Accordingly, no acceleration or deferral of any payment shall be permitted if it would cause the payment of the Units to violate Code Section 409A. In addition, notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, in the event that following the Grant Date, the Committee (as defined in the Plan) determines that it may be necessary or appropriate to do so, the Committee may adopt such amendments to the Plan and/or this Agreement or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Committee determines are necessary or appropriate to (a) exempt the Plan and/or the Units from the application of Code Section 409A and/or preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided with respect to this Award, or (b) comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A;   provided  ,   however  , that this paragraph shall not create an obligation on the part of the Committee to adopt any such amendment, policy or procedure or take any such other action. For purposes of Code Section 409A, the right to receive payment of Units at each Vesting Date shall be treated as a right to receive separate and distinct payments. 
    
  X.  Acknowledgment.  By electing to accept this Agreement, you acknowledge receipt of this Agreement and hereby confirm your understanding that the terms set forth in this Agreement constitute, subject to the terms of the Plan, which terms shall control in the event of any conflict between the Plan and this Agreement, the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and supersede any and all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties concerning the subject matter of this Agreement. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.  
    
  XI.  Acknowledgment of Nature of Plan and Units  .  In accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge, understand and agree that:  
    
  (a)    the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, as provided in the Plan;  
    
  (b)    the grant of the Units is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of Units, or benefits in lieu of Units even if Units have been awarded in the past;  
    
  (c)    all decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;  
    
  (d)    your participation in the Plan is voluntary;  
    
  (e)    the grant of Units, the Shares subject to the Units, and the income from and value of same, are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation; 
    
  (f)    neither the grant of Units nor any provision of this Agreement, the Plan or the policies adopted pursuant to the Plan confer upon you any right with respect to employment or continuation of current employment and shall not interfere with the ability of the Employer to terminate your employment or service relationship (if any) at any time;  
    
  (g)    in the event that you are not an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, the Units shall not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company or any Affiliate; 
    
  (h)    the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty;  
    
  (i)    in consideration of the grant of Units hereunder, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination of Units, and no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Units resulting from termination of your employment by the Company or an Affiliate (regardless of the reason for such termination and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), and you irrevocably release the Company and your Employer from any such claim that may arise;  

if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim;  
    
  (j)    unless otherwise agreed with the Company, the Units, the Shares subject to the Units, and the income from and value of same, are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, the service you may provide as a director of an Affiliate of the Company; 
    
  (k)     except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Plan, the Units and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the Units or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of the Company; 
    
  (l)    the following provisions apply only if you are providing services outside the United States: 
    
  (i)  for employment law purposes outside the United States, the Units, Shares subject to the Units, and the income from and value of same, are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including but not limited to for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, holiday pay, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar mandatory payments; and 
    
  (ii)  neither the Company, the Employer nor any Affiliate of the Company shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between your local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the Units or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the settlement of the Units or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired upon settlement. 
    
  XII.  No Advice Regarding Award  .  The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan, or your acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. You should consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan. 
    
  XIII.  Compliance with Laws  .  Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if you are employed by the Company or an Affiliate in any of the countries identified in the attached   Appendix A   (which constitutes a part of this Agreement), are subject to the laws of any foreign jurisdiction, or relocate to one of the countries included in the attached   Appendix A  , the Units granted hereunder shall be subject to any special terms and conditions for your country set forth in   Appendix A   and to the following additional terms and conditions: 
    
  (a)    the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including   Appendix A  , are deemed modified to the extent necessary or advisable to comply with applicable foreign laws or facilitate the administration of the Plan;  
    
  (b)    if applicable, the effectiveness of your award of Units is conditioned upon its compliance with any applicable foreign laws, regulations, rules or local governmental regulatory exemption and subject to receipt of any required foreign regulatory approvals; 
    
  (c)    to the extent necessary to comply with applicable foreign laws, the payment of any earned Units shall be made in cash or Common Stock, at the Company s election; and 
    
  (d)    the Company may take any other action, before or after an award of Units is made, that it deems advisable to obtain approval or comply with any necessary local governmental regulatory exemptions or approvals. 
    
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Company shall not take any actions hereunder that would violate the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation, or the rules of any Securities Exchange. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Shares issuable upon vesting of the Unit shall not be issued unless such Shares are then registered under the Securities Act, or, if such Shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such vesting and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, and that the issuance satisfied all other applicable legal requirements. 
    
  XIV.  Data Privacy and Notice of Consent  .  You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company, and Affiliates of the Company for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. 

You understand that the Company and your Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, email address, date of birth, social insurance number (to the extent permitted under applicable local law), passport or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all equity compensation or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Plan (   Data   ). 
    
  You understand that Data may be transferred to Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB, or any successor thereto, or any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize your Employer, the Company, Affiliates of the Company, Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB, or any successor thereto, and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to any other broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the Shares received upon vesting of the Units may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service with the Employer will not be affected; the only consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you Units or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative. 
    
  XV.  Severability  .  If one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provisions which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Agreement to be construed so as to foster the intent of this Agreement and the Plan. 
    
  XVI.  Language  .  If you have received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control. 
    
  XVII.  Imposition of Other Requirements  . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. 
    
  XVIII.  Compensation Subject to Recovery  . The Units subject to this Award and all compensation payable with respect to them shall be subject to recovery by the Company pursuant to any and all of the Company s policies with respect to the recovery of compensation, as they shall be in effect and may be amended from time to time, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. 
    
  XIX.  Waiver  .  You acknowledge that a waiver by the Company of breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement, or of any subsequent breach by you or any other grantee. 
    
  Very truly yours, 
  AMGEN INC. 
    
  By:  _____________________ 
  Name:   __________________ 
  Title:   ___________________ 

APPENDIX A 
    
  ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE 
  AMENDED AND RESTATED 
  AMGEN INC. 2009 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN,  
  AS AMENDED AND/OR RESTATED FROM TIME TO TIME 
    
  GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS  
  (BY COUNTRY) 
    
  Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix A shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan and/or the Agreement to which this Appendix is attached. 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  This Appendix includes additional terms and conditions that govern any Units granted under the Plan if, under applicable law, you are a resident of, are deemed to be a resident of or are working in one of the countries listed below.  Furthermore, the additional terms and conditions that govern any Units granted hereunder may apply to you if you transfer employment and/or residency to one of the countries listed below and the Company shall, in its discretion, determine to what extent the terms and conditions contained herein shall apply to you. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  This Appendix also includes notifications relating to exchange control and other issues of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan. The information is based on the exchange control, securities and other laws in effect in the countries to which this Appendix refers as of October 2016. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you not rely on the notifications herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be outdated when you vest in the Units and acquire Shares under the Plan, or when you subsequently sell Shares acquired under the Plan. 
    
  In addition, the notifications are general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you should seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation. Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you are currently residing and/or working or are considered a resident of another country for local law purposes, the information contained herein may not be applicable to you or you may be subject to the provisions of one or more jurisdictions. 
    
  ALL NON-U.S. JURISDICTIONS 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Insider Trading Restrictions/Market Abuse Laws.   Depending on your country, you may be subject to insider trading restrictions and/or market abuse laws, which may affect your ability to acquire or sell Shares or rights to Shares (  e.g  ., Units) under the Plan during such times as you are considered to have  inside information  regarding the Company (as defined by the laws of your country).  Any restrictions under these laws or regulations are separate from and in addition to any restrictions that may be imposed under any applicable Company insider trading policy.  You are responsible for ensuring your compliance with any applicable restrictions and you should speak with your personal legal advisor on this matter. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.   Your country of residence may have certain foreign asset and/or account reporting requirements which may affect your ability to acquire or hold Shares under the Plan or cash received from participating in the Plan (including from any Dividends or Dividend Equivalents received, or sale proceeds arising from the sale of Shares) in a brokerage or bank account outside of your country. You may be required to report such accounts, assets or transactions to the tax or other authorities in your country. You are responsible for ensuring your compliance with such regulations, and you should speak with your personal legal advisor on this matter.  

APPENDIX A-  1 

AUSTRALIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Australia Offer Document.    The offer of the Award is intended to comply with the provisions of the Corporations Act 2001, ASIC Regulatory Guide 49 and ASIC Class Order CO 14/1000. Additional details are set forth in the Offer Document for the Offer of Restricted Stock Units to Australian Resident Employees. 
    
  Tax Information.    The Plan is a plan to which Subdivision 83A-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) (the    Act   ) applies (subject to the conditions in that Act). 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    If you are an Australian resident, exchange control reporting is required for cash transactions exceeding AUD10,000 and for international fund transfers. If an Australian bank is assisting with the transaction, the bank will file the report on your behalf. If there is no Australian bank involved in the transfer, you will be required to file the report. 
    
  AUSTRIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    If you are an Austrian resident and you hold Shares acquired under the Plan outside of Austria, you must submit a report to the Austrian National Bank. An exemption applies if the value of the Shares as of any given quarter does not meet or exceed  30,000,000 or if the value of the Shares in any given year as of December 31 does not meet or exceed  5,000,000. If the former threshold is exceeded, quarterly obligations are imposed, whereas if the latter threshold is exceeded, annual reports must be given. The quarterly reporting date is as of the last day of the respective quarter and the deadline for filing the quarterly report is the 15th day of the month following the end of the respective quarter. The annual reporting date is December 31 and the deadline for filing the annual report is January 31 of the following year. 
       
  A separate reporting requirement applies when you sell Shares acquired under the Plan, receive a cash Dividend paid on such Shares or Dividend Equivalents paid in cash. In that case, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds are held outside of Austria. If the transaction volume of all cash accounts abroad meets or exceeds  10,000,000, the movements and balances of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the 15th day of the following month, on the prescribed form (  Meldungen SI-Forderungen und/oder SI-Verpflichtungen  ). 
    
  BELGIUM 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Tax Reporting; Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are a Belgian resident, you are required to report any taxable income attributable to the Units granted hereunder on your annual tax return. You are also required to report any securities (  e.g.  , Shares acquired under the Plan) held and bank accounts (including brokerage accounts) opened and maintained outside of Belgium on your annual tax return. In a separate report, you are required to provide the National Bank of Belgium with the account details of any such foreign accounts (including the account number, bank name and country in which such account was opened). This report, as well as information on how to complete it, can be found on the website of the National Bank of Belgium,   www.nbb.be  , under the   Kredietcentrales / Centrales des cr dits   caption. 
    
  BRAZIL 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Compliance with Law  .  By accepting the Units, you acknowledge that you agree to comply with applicable Brazilian laws and pay any and all applicable taxes associated with the vesting of the Units, the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan, the payment of Dividends on such Shares and the receipt of any Dividend Equivalents paid in cash. 
    
  Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and Units.    This provision supplements Section XI of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge (i) that you are making an investment decision, (ii) that the Shares will be issued to you only if the vesting conditions are met and any necessary services are rendered by you during the vesting period set forth in the Vesting Schedule, and (iii) that the value of the underlying Shares is not fixed and may increase or decrease in value over the vesting period without compensation to you. 
  
   APPENDIX A-  2 

NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    If you are resident or domiciled in Brazil, you will be required to submit annually a declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank of Brazil if the aggregate value of such assets and rights equals or exceeds US$100,000. If such amount exceeds US$100,000,000, the referenced declaration must be submitted quarterly. Assets and rights that must be reported include the following: (i) bank deposits; (ii) loans; (iii) financing transactions; (iv) leases; (v) direct investments; (vi) portfolio investments, including Shares acquired under the Plan; (vii) financial derivatives investments; and (viii) other investments, such as real estate. Please note that foreign individuals holding Brazilian visas are considered Brazilian residents for purposes of this reporting requirement and must declare at least the assets held abroad that were acquired subsequent to the date of admittance as a resident of Brazil. Individuals holding assets and rights outside of Brazil valued at less than US$100,000 are not required to submit a declaration.  
    
  BULGARIA 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you make any payments to or receive any payments from abroad related to the Plan and the respective amount exceeds BGN 100,000, you should fill in and submit to the respective local bank a specific statistical form regarding the source of the income prior to the ordering of the payment or within thirty (30) days of receipt of a notice by the bank that the amount is in your bank account. 
    
  In addition, you will be required to annually file statistical forms with the Bulgarian National Bank regarding your receivables in bank accounts abroad as well as your securities abroad (  e.g.  , Shares acquired under the Plan) if the total sum of all such receivables and securities equals or exceeds BGN 50,000 as of the previous calendar year-end.  The reports are due by March 31. 
    
  CANADA 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS    
    
  Termination of Employment.    Section I(i) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
    
  (i)    termination of your active employment    shall mean the last date that you are either an active employee of the Company or an Affiliate or actively engaged as a Director of the Company or an Affiliate; in the event of involuntary termination of your employment (regardless of the reason for such termination and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), your right to receive any Units and vest under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of: (1) the date you receive notice of termination of employment from the Company or your Employer, or (2) the date you are no longer actively employed by the Company or your Employer regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under local law (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law). Your right, if any, to acquire Shares pursuant to the Units after termination of employment will be measured by the date of termination of your active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law; 
    
  Form of Settlement - Units Payable Only in Shares.    Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the Units do not provide any right for you, as a resident of Canada, to receive a cash payment and shall be paid in Shares only. 
    
  The following provisions will apply to you if you are a resident of Quebec: 
    
  Language Consent.    The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices, and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English. 
    
  Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig  la r daction en anglais de cette convention (    Agreement    ), ainsi que de tous documents, avis et proc dures judiciaires, ex cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s directement ou indirectement  , la pr sente convention. 
    
  Data Privacy Notice and Consent.    This provision supplements Section XIV of the Agreement: 
    
  You hereby authorize the Company and the Company s representative to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel (professional or not) involved in the administration and operation of the Plan. You further authorize the Company and  
  
   APPENDIX A-  3 

your Employer to disclose and discuss your participation in the Plan with their advisors. You also authorize the Company and your Employer to record such information and keep it in your employee file. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    You are permitted to sell Shares acquired through the Plan through the designated broker appointed under the Plan, if any, provided that the resale of such Shares takes place outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the Shares are listed (  e.g.  , the NASDAQ Global Select Market). 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Foreign property, including Shares, stock options and other rights to receive Shares (  e.g.  , Units) of a non-Canadian company held by a Canadian resident employee generally must be reported annually on a Form T1135 (Foreign Income Verification Statement) if the total cost of the employee s foreign property exceeds C$100,000 at any time during the year. Thus, such stock options and Units must be reported - generally at nil cost - if the C$100,000 cost threshold is exceeded because other foreign property is held by the employee. When Shares are acquired, their cost generally is the adjusted cost base (   ACB   ) of the Shares. The ACB ordinarily would equal the fair market value of the Shares at the time of acquisition, but if the employee owns other shares of the same company, this ACB may have to be averaged with the ACB of the other shares. 
    
  CHILE 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The offer of Restricted Stock Units (   Units   ) constitutes a private offering in Chile effective as of the Grant Date. The offer of Units is made subject to ruling N  336 of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities and Insurance (   SVS   ). The offer refers to securities not registered at the securities registry or at the foreign securities registry of the SVS, and, therefore, such securities are not subject to oversight of the SVS. Given that the Units are not registered in Chile, the Company is not required to provide public information about the Units or the Shares in Chile. Unless the Units and/or the Shares are registered with the SVS, a public offering of such securities cannot be made in Chile. 
    
  Informaci n bajo la Ley de Mercado de Valores.    Esta oferta de Unidades de Acciones Restringidas (   Unidades   ) constituye una oferta privada en Chile y se inicia en la Fecha de la Concesi n. Esta oferta de Unidades se acoge a las disposiciones de la Norma de Car cter General N  336 de la Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros de Chile (   SVS   ). Esta oferta versa sobre valores no inscritos en el Registro de Valores o en el Registro de Valores Extranjeros que lleva la SVS, por lo que tales valores no est n sujetos a la fiscalizaci n de  sta. Por tratarse las Unidades de valores no registrados en Chile, no existe obligaci n por parte de la Compa  a de entregar en Chile informaci n p blica respecto de los Unidades o sus Acciones. Estos valores no podr n ser objeto de oferta p blica en Chile mientras no sean inscritos en el Registro de Valores correspondiente. 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    You are responsible for complying with foreign exchange requirements in Chile. You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding any applicable exchange control obligations prior to vesting in the Units or receiving proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired at vesting, cash Dividends or Dividend Equivalents. 
    
  You are not required to repatriate funds obtained from the sale of Shares or the receipt of any Dividends or Dividend Equivalents. However, if you decide to repatriate such funds, you must do so through the Formal Exchange Market if the amount of funds exceeds US$10,000. In such case, you must report the payment to a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office receiving the funds. If your aggregate investments held outside of Chile exceed US$5,000,000 (including Shares and any cash proceeds obtained under the Plan) in the relevant calendar year, you must report the investments quarterly to the Central Bank. Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations must be used to file this report. Please note that exchange control regulations in Chile are subject to change. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    The Chilean Internal Revenue Service (   CIRS   ) requires all taxpayers to provide information annually regarding: (i) the taxes paid abroad which they will use as a credit against Chilean income taxes, and (ii) the results of foreign investments. These annual reporting obligations must be complied with by submitting a sworn statement setting forth this information before March 15 of each year. The forms to be used to submit the sworn statement are Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad  and Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad.  If you are not a Chilean citizen and have been a resident in Chile for less than three (3) years, you are exempt from the requirement to file Tax Form 1853. These statements must be submitted electronically through the CIRS website:   www.sii.cl  . 

APPENDIX A-  4 

Investments abroad must also be registered with the CIRS for you to be entitled to a foreign tax credit for any tax withheld on Dividends abroad, if applicable, and such registration also provides evidence of the acquisition price of the Shares (which will be zero) which you will need when the Shares are sold. You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding how to register with the CIRS. 
    
  CHINA 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  The following terms apply only to individuals who are subject to exchange control restrictions in the People s Republic of China (the    PRC   ), as determined by the Company in its sole discretion  : 
    
  Vesting of the Units.    [Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section I(d) of the Agreement, if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your Voluntary Termination, as defined in Section I(d), then the vesting of Units granted under this Agreement shall be accelerated to vest as of the day immediately preceding such Voluntary Termination with respect to all Units granted hereunder.]*   Paragraph (d) of Section I of the Agreement is not applicable to awards identified by the Administrator as new hire, retention, special or promotion grants and the provisions of such paragraph shall be reserved and references thereto identified by an asterisk (*) shall be omitted from the agreements evidencing such grants.    
  Sale Requirement.    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement, due to exchange control laws in the PRC, you agree that the Company reserves the right to require the immediate sale of any Shares issued upon settlement of the Units. You understand and agree that any such immediate sale of Shares will occur as soon as is practical following settlement of the Units. Alternatively, if the Shares are not immediately sold upon settlement of the Units, the Company will require the sale of any Shares you may then hold within six (6) months (or such other period as may be required under applicable legal or exchange control requirements) following the termination of your employment with the Company including its Affiliates. 
    
  You agree that the Company is authorized to instruct Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB or such other designated broker as may be selected by the Company to assist with the sale of the Shares on your behalf pursuant to this authorization, and you expressly authorize such broker to complete the sale of such Shares. You also agree to sign any agreements, forms and/or consents that may be reasonably requested by the Company (or the Company s designated broker) to effectuate the sale of the Shares (including, without limitation, as to the transfers of the proceeds and other exchange control matters noted below) and to otherwise cooperate with the Company with respect to such matters, provided that you shall not be permitted to exercise any influence over how, when or whether the sales occur. Upon the sale of the Shares, you will receive the cash proceeds from the sale, less any applicable Tax Obligations, brokerage fees or commissions, in accordance with applicable exchange control laws and regulations. 
    
  You acknowledge that Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB or such other designated broker as may be selected by the Company is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular price. Due to fluctuations in the Share price and/or applicable exchange rates between the settlement date and (if later) the date on which the Shares are sold, the amount of proceeds ultimately distributed to you may be more or less than the market value of the Shares on the settlement date (which is the amount relevant to determining your liability for Tax Obligations). You understand and agree that the Company is not responsible for the amount of any loss that you may incur and that the Company assumes no liability for any fluctuations in the Share price and/or any applicable exchange rate. 
  Designated Broker Account.    If Shares issued upon the settlement of the Units are not immediately sold, you acknowledge that you are required to maintain the Shares in an account with Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB or such other designated broker as may be selected by the Company until the Shares are sold through such Company-designated broker. 
    
  Exchange Control Requirements.    You understand and agree that, pursuant to local exchange control requirements, you will be required to repatriate the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares issued to you upon settlement of the Units and from the receipt of any Dividends or Dividend Equivalents to China. You further understand that, under applicable laws, such repatriation of your cash proceeds will need to be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company or any Affiliate, including the Employer, and you hereby consent and agree that any proceeds may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to you. You also understand that the Company will deliver the proceeds to you as soon as possible, but that there may be delays in distributing the funds to you due to exchange control requirements in China. Proceeds may be paid to you in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion. If the proceeds are paid to you in U.S. dollars, you will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. If the proceeds are paid to you in local currency, the Company is under no obligation to secure any particular currency conversion rate and the Company may face delays in converting the proceeds to local currency due to exchange control restrictions. You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China. 
  
   APPENDIX A-  5 

COLOMBIA 
  NOTIFICATIONS 
  Securities Law Information.    The Shares are not and will not be registered with the Colombian registry of publicly traded securities (  Registro Nacional de Valores y Emisores  ) and therefore the Shares may not be offered to the public in Colombia. Nothing in this document should be construed as the making of a public offer of securities in Colombia. 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    Investment in assets located abroad (such as Shares acquired under the Plan) does not require prior approval from the Central Bank (  Banco de la Rep blica  ). Nonetheless, such investments are subject to exchange control regulations. If you are a Colombian resident and the value of your aggregate investments held abroad (including Shares) equals or exceeds US$500,000 as of December 31 of the applicable calendar year, these investments must be registered with the Central Bank. Upon the sale or other disposition of investments (including Shares, Dividends and Dividend Equivalents) which have been registered with the Central Bank, the registration with the Central Bank must be cancelled no later than March 31 of the year following the year of the sale or disposition (or a fine of up to 200% of the value of the infringing payment will apply). When investments held abroad are sold or otherwise disposed of, regardless of whether they have been registered with the Central Bank, Colombian residents must repatriate the proceeds to Colombia by selling currency to a Colombian bank and filing the appropriate form. 
    
  CROATIA 
  NOTIFICATIONS 
  Exchange Control Information.    Croatian residents must report any foreign investments (including Shares acquired under the Plan) to the Croatian National Bank for statistical purposes. Prior approval from the Croatian National Bank for bank accounts opened abroad is no longer required to be obtained. You should be aware that exchange control regulations in Croatia are subject to frequent change and you are solely responsible for ensuring your continued compliance with current Croatian exchange control laws. 
    
  CZECH REPUBLIC 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Proceeds from the sale of Shares, any Dividends paid on such Shares or Dividend Equivalents may be held in a cash account abroad and you are no longer required to report the opening and maintenance of a foreign account to the Czech National Bank (the    CNB   ), unless the CNB notifies you specifically that such reporting is required. Upon request of the CNB, you may need to file a notification within fifteen (15) days of the end of the calendar quarter in which you acquire Shares. 
    
  DENMARK 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Danish Stock Option Act.    In accepting the Units, you acknowledge that you have received an Employer Statement translated into Danish, which is being provided to comply with the Danish Stock Option Act. To the extent more favorable to you and required to comply with the Stock Option Act, the terms set forth in the Employer Statement will apply to your participation in the Plan. 

NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you establish an account holding Shares or an account holding cash outside of Denmark, you must report the account to the Danish Tax Administration. The form which should be used in this respect can be obtained from a local bank. (These obligations are separate from and in addition to the obligations described below.) 
    
  Securities/Tax Reporting Information.    If you hold Shares acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside of Denmark, you are required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account. For this purpose, you must sign and file a Form V (  Erklaering V  ) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both you and the broker/bank must sign the Form V, unless an exemption from the broker/bank signature requirement is obtained from the Danish Tax Administration. It is possible to seek  
  
   APPENDIX A-  6 

an exemption on the Form V, which you should do at the time you submit the Form V. By signing the Form V, you and the broker or bank undertake an obligation, without further request each year, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the brokerage-deposit account as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of Form V can be found at the following website:   www.skat.dk  . 
    
  In addition, if you open a brokerage or bank account with a U.S. bank, the account will be treated as a  deposit account  because cash can be held in the account. Therefore, you also must file a Form K (  Erklaering K  ) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both you and the broker/bank must sign the Form K, unless an exemption from the broker/bank signature requirement is obtained from the Danish Tax Administration. It is possible to seek an exemption on the Form K, which you should do at the time you submit the Form K. By signing the Form K, you and the broker or bank undertake an obligation, without further request each year, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form K, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of Form K can be found at the following website:   www.skat.dk  . 
    
  EGYPT 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS    
    
  Exchange Control Information.    If you transfer funds into Egypt in connection with the Units, you are required to transfer the funds through a registered bank in Egypt. 
    
  FINLAND 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  FRANCE 
    
  terms and Conditions 
    
  Language Consent.    By accepting the grant, you confirm having read and understood the Plan and Agreement which were provided in the English language. You accept the terms of these documents accordingly. 
    
  En acceptant l attribution, vous confirmez avoir lu et compris le Plan et le Contrat, qui ont  t  communiqu s en langue anglaise. Vous acceptez les termes de ces documents en connaissance de cause. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    French residents and non-residents must declare to the Customs Authorities the cash and securities they import or export without the use of a financial institution when the value of such cash or securities exceeds  10,000. French residents also must report all foreign bank and brokerage accounts on an annual basis (including accounts opened or closed during the tax year) on a specific form together with the income tax return. Failure to comply could trigger significant penalties. 
    
  GERMANY 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS    
    
  Exchange Control Information  .  Cross-border payments in excess of  12,500 must be reported monthly to the German Federal Bank (  Bundesbank  ). In case of payments in connection with securities (including proceeds realized upon the sale of Shares or the receipt of Dividends or Dividend Equivalents), the report must be made by the 5th day of the month following the month in which the payment was received and must be filed electronically. The form of report (  Allgemeine Meldeportal Statistik  ) can be accessed via the   Bundesbank s   website (  www.bundesbank.de  ) and is available in both German and English. You are responsible for satisfying any applicable reporting obligation. 

APPENDIX A-  7 

GREECE 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  HONG KONG 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Form of Settlement - Units Payable Only in Shares.    Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the Units do not provide any right for you to receive a cash payment and shall be paid in Shares only. 
    
  Sale of Shares.    Shares received at vesting are accepted as a personal investment. In the event that Shares are issued in respect of the Units within six (6) months of the Grant Date, you agree that you will not offer to the public or otherwise dispose of the Shares prior to the six (6)-month anniversary of the Grant Date. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  SECURITIES WARNING:    The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. You should exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Appendix, or the Plan, you should obtain independent professional advice. The Units and any Shares issued in respect of the Units do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to members of the Board and Employees. The Agreement, including this Appendix, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong. The Units and any documentation related thereto are intended solely for the personal use of each member of the Board and/or Employee and may not be distributed to any other person. 
    
  Nature of Scheme.    The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be an occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance. 
  HUNGARY 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  ICELAND 
    
  Notifications 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    You should consult with your personal advisor to ensure compliance with applicable exchange control regulations in Iceland as such regulations are subject to frequent change. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Iceland. 
    
  INDIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    You understand that you must repatriate any cash Dividends paid on Shares acquired under the Plan to India or any Dividend Equivalents paid in cash within one hundred and eighty (180) days of receipt, and any proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan within ninety (90) days of receipt. You will receive a foreign inward remittance certificate (   FIRC   ) from the bank where you deposit the foreign currency, and you must maintain the FIRC as proof of repatriation of funds in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or the Employer requests proof of repatriation. It is your responsibility to comply with these requirements. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information  .  You are required to declare foreign bank accounts and any foreign financial assets (including Shares held outside of India) in your annual tax return. It is your responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and you should consult your personal tax advisor in this regard. 

APPENDIX A-  8 

IRELAND 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and Units.    This provision supplements Section XI of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting this Agreement, you understand and agree that the benefits received under the Plan will not be taken into account for any redundancy or unfair dismissal claim. 
    
  ITALY  
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Data Privacy Notice.    The following provision replaces Section XIV of the Agreement: 
    
  You understand that the Employer, the Company and any Affiliate may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, email address, date of birth, social insurance (to the extent permitted under Italian law), passport or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Company or any Affiliate, details of all Awards granted, or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, managing and administering the Plan (   Data   ).  
    
  You also understand that providing the Company with Data is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that your refusal to provide such Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. The Controller of personal data processing is Amgen Inc., with registered offices at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., and, pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, its Representative in Italy for privacy purposes is Amgen Dompe S.p.A., with registered offices at Via Tazzoli, 6 - 20154 Milan, Italy. 
    
  You understand that Data will not be publicized, but it may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions, or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan. You understand that Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company. You further understand that the Company and/or any Affiliate will transfer Data among themselves as necessary for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, and that the Company and/or any Affiliate may each further transfer Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration, and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Data to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any Shares acquired at vesting of the Units. Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain, and transfer Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that these recipients may be located in or outside of the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere. Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Data as soon as it has completed all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan. 
    
  You understand that Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions, as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003. 
    
  The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as herein specified and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto, as the processing is necessary to performance of contractual obligations related to implementation, administration, and management of the Plan. You understand that, pursuant to Section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right to, including but not limited to, access, delete, update, correct, or terminate, for legitimate reason, the Data processing. 
    
  Furthermore, you are aware that Data will not be used for direct-marketing purposes. In addition, Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your local human resources representative. 
    
  Acknowledgement of Nature of Agreement.    In accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that (1) you have received a copy of the Plan, the Agreement and this Appendix; (2) you have reviewed the applicable documents in their entirety and fully understand the contents thereof; and (3) you accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Appendix. 
  
   APPENDIX A-  9 

For any Units granted, you further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and explicitly approve, without limitation, the following sections of the Agreement: Section I; Section II; Section III; Section VIII; Section X; Section XI; Section XIV (as replaced by the above consent); Section XVI; and Section XVII. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Italian residents who, at any time during the fiscal year, hold foreign financial assets (including cash and Shares) which may generate income taxable in Italy  are required to report these assets on their annual tax returns (UNICO Form, RW Schedule) for the year during which the assets are held, or on a special form if no tax return is due. These reporting obligations will also apply to Italian residents who are the beneficial owners of foreign financial assets under Italian money laundering provisions. 
    
  Foreign Financial Assets Tax.    The fair market value of any Shares held outside of Italy     is subject to a foreign assets tax. The fair market value is considered to be the value of the Shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on December 31 of the applicable year in which you held the Shares (or when the Shares are acquired during the course of the year, the tax is levied in proportion to the actual days of holding over the calendar year). You should consult with your personal tax advisor about the foreign financial assets tax. 
    
  JAPAN 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You will be required to report to the Japanese tax authorities details of any assets held outside of Japan as of December 31st (including any Shares acquired under the Plan) to the extent such assets have a total net fair market value exceeding  50,000,000. Such report will be due by March 15 each year. You should consult with your personal tax advisor as to whether the reporting obligation applies to you and whether you will be required to include in the report details of any Shares or cash that you hold. 
    
  JORDAN 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  KOREA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    You are required to repatriate any proceeds of US$500,000 or more realized in a single transaction from the sale of Shares or the receipt of Dividends or Dividend Equivalents to Korea within three (3) years of receipt. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You are required to declare all foreign financial accounts (  e.g.   non-Korean bank accounts, brokerage accounts holding Shares, etc.) to the Korean tax authority and file a report regarding such accounts if the monthly balance of such accounts exceeds KRW1,000,000,000 (or an equivalent amount in foreign currency) on any month-end date during a calendar year. It is your responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and you should consult your personal tax advisor to ensure compliance with this requirement. 
    
  LATVIA 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  LEBANON 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The Plan does not constitute the marketing or offering of securities in Lebanon pursuant to Law No. 161 (2011), the Capital Markets Law. Offerings under the Plan are being made only to eligible Employees of the Employer, the Company or an Affiliate. 
    
  LITHUANIA 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  
   APPENDIX A-  10 

MEXICO 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Acknowledgement of the Agreement.    In accepting the Award granted hereunder, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan, have reviewed the Plan and the Agreement, including this Appendix, in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement, including this Appendix. You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve the terms and conditions of Section XI of the Agreement, in which the following is clearly described and established: 
    
  (1)    Your participation in the Plan does not constitute an acquired right.  
    
           (2) 
    The Plan and your participation in the Plan are offered by Amgen Inc. on a wholly discretionary basis.  
       
  (3)    Your participation in the Plan is voluntary.  
    
           (4) 
    Amgen Inc. and its Affiliates are not responsible for any decrease in the value of the Units granted and/or Shares issued under the Plan. 
       
  Labor Law Acknowledgement and Policy Statement.    In accepting any Award granted hereunder, you expressly recognize that Amgen Inc., with registered offices at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of Shares do not constitute an employment relationship between you and Amgen Inc. since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your sole employer is Amgen Latin America Services, S.A. de C.V. (   Amgen-Mexico   ). Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan do not establish any rights between you and your Employer, Amgen-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by Amgen-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment. 
    
  You further understand that your participation in the Plan is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of Amgen Inc.; therefore, Amgen Inc. reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation in the Plan at any time without any liability to you. 
    
  Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against Amgen Inc. for any compensation or damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to Amgen Inc., its Affiliates, shareholders, officers, agents or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise.  
    
  Spanish Translation 
    
  Reconocimiento del Otorgamiento.    Al aceptar cualquier Otorgamiento bajo el presente documento, usted reconoce que ha recibido una copia del Plan, que ha revisado el mismo en su totalidad, as  como tambi n el Acuerdo de Opci n, el Acuerdo, incluyendo este Ap ndice, adem s que comprende y est  de acuerdo con todas las disposiciones tanto del Plan y del Otorgamiento, incluyendo este Ap ndice. Asimismo, usted reconoce que ha le do y manifiesta espec ficamente y expresamente la conformidad con los t rminos y condiciones establecidos en la Secci n XI del Acuerdo, en los que se establece y describe claramente que:  
    
           (1) 
    Su participaci n en el Plan de ninguna manera constituye un derecho adquirido.  
       
           (2) 
    El Plan y su participaci n en el mismo son ofrecidos por Amgen Inc. de forma completamente discrecional.  
       
  (3)    Su participaci n en el Plan es voluntaria.  
    
           (4) 
    Amgen Inc. y sus Afiliados no son responsables de ninguna disminuci n en el valor de Unidades o de las Acciones Comunes emitidas mediante el Plan.  
       
  Reconocimiento de la Ley Laboral y Declaraci n de Pol tica.    Al aceptar cualquier Otorgamiento de Acciones bajo el presente, usted reconoce expresamente que Amgen Inc., con oficinas registradas localizadas en One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., es la  nica responsable de la administraci n del Plan y que su participaci n en el mismo y la adquisici n de Acciones Comunes no constituyen de ninguna manera una relaci n laboral entre usted y Amgen Inc., debido a que su participaci n  
  
   APPENDIX A-  11 

en el Plan es  nicamente una relaci n comercial y que su  nico empleador es Amgen Latin America Services, S.A. de C.V. (   Amgen-M xico   ). Derivado de lo anterior, usted reconoce expresamente que el Plan y los beneficios a su favor que pudieran derivar de la participaci n en el mismo, no establecen ning n derecho entre usted y su empleador, Amgen - M xico, y no forman parte de las condiciones laborales y/o los beneficios otorgados por Amgen - M xico, y cualquier modificaci n del Plan o la terminaci n del mismo no constituir  un cambio o desmejora de los t rminos y condiciones de su trabajo. 
    
  Asimismo, usted entiende que su participaci n en el Plan es resultado de la decisi n unilateral y discrecional de Amgen Inc., por lo tanto, Amgen Inc. se reserva el derecho absoluto de modificar y/o descontinuar su participaci n en el Plan en cualquier momento y sin ninguna responsabilidad para usted. 
  Finalmente, usted manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho que origine una demanda en contra de Amgen Inc., por cualquier compensaci n o da os y perjuicios, en relaci n con cualquier disposici n del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en consecuencia usted exime amplia y completamente a Amgen Inc. de toda responsabilidad, como as  tambi n a sus Afiliadas, accionistas, directores, agentes o representantes legales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir. 
    
  MOROCCO 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Sale Requirement.    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement, due to exchange control laws in Morocco, you agree that the Company reserves the right to require the immediate sale of any Shares acquired upon settlement of the Units. Alternatively, if the Shares are not immediately sold upon settlement of the Units, the Company may require the sale of any Shares at a later date, including upon termination of your employment. 
    
  You agree that the Company is authorized to instruct Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB or such other designated broker as may be selected by the Company to assist with the sale of the Shares on your behalf pursuant to this authorization, and you expressly authorize such broker to complete the sale of such Shares. You also agree to sign any agreements, forms and/or consents that may be reasonably requested by the Company (or the Company s designated broker) to effectuate the sale of the Shares (including, without limitation, as to the transfers of the proceeds and other exchange control matters noted below) and to otherwise cooperate with the Company with respect to such matters, provided that you shall not be permitted to exercise any influence over how, when or whether the sales occur. Upon the sale of the Shares, you will receive the cash proceeds from the sale, less any applicable Tax Obligations, brokerage fees or commissions, in accordance with applicable exchange control laws and regulations. 
    
  You acknowledge that Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB or such other designated broker as may be selected by the Company is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular price. Due to fluctuations in the Share price and/or applicable exchange rates between the settlement date and (if later) the date on which the Shares are sold, the amount of proceeds ultimately distributed to you may be more or less than the market value of the Shares on the settlement date (which is the amount relevant to determining your liability for Tax Obligations). You understand and agree that the Company is not responsible for the amount of any loss that you may incur and that the Company assumes no liability for any fluctuations in the Share price and/or any applicable exchange rate. 
    
  Designated Broker Account.    If Shares issued upon the settlement of the Units are not immediately sold, you acknowledge that you are required to maintain the Shares in an account with Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB or such other designated broker as may be selected by the Company until the Shares are sold through such Company-designated broker. 
    
  Exchange Control Requirements.    You understand and agree that, pursuant to local exchange control requirements, you will be required to repatriate the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares issued upon settlement of the Units to Morocco. You further understand that such repatriation of your cash proceeds may be effectuated through a bank account established by the Company or any Affiliate, including the Employer, and you hereby consent and agree that any proceeds from the sale of the Shares may be transferred to such bank account prior to being delivered to you. If repatriation of your cash proceeds is not effectuated through a bank account established by the Company or any Affiliate, including the Employer, you hereby agree to maintain your own records proving repatriation and to provide copies of these records upon request by the Company or any Affiliate, including the Employer, or the Moroccan Exchange Control Office (  Office des Changes  ). Further, you acknowledge and understand that the net proceeds that you realize from your participation in the Plan must be converted from U.S. dollars to Dirham, and that neither the Company nor any Affiliate, including the Employer, has any obligation to, but may nonetheless, convert the net proceeds on your behalf using any exchange rate chosen by the Company; if funds are so converted, they will be converted as soon as practicable after sale, which may not be immediately after the sale date. Further, if such currency conversion occurs, you will bear the risk of any fluctuation in the U.S. dollar/Dirham exchange rate between the date you realize U.S. dollar proceeds from your participation in the Plan and the date that you receive cash proceeds converted to Dirham. You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in Morocco. 
  
   APPENDIX A-  12 

NETHERLANDS 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information. 

Attention! This investment falls outside AFM supervision. 
        
    No prospectus required for this activity. 

NEW ZEALAND 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    Warning. This is an offer of Amgen Inc. Shares. Shares give you a stake in the ownership of Amgen Inc. You may receive a return if Dividends are paid. Amgen Inc. Shares are quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. This means you may be able to sell them on the NASDAQ Global Select Market if there are interested buyers. You may get less than you invested. The price will depend on the demand for the Shares. 
    
  If Amgen Inc. runs into financial difficulties and is wound up, you will be paid only after all creditors have been paid. You may lose some or all of your investment. 
    
  New Zealand law normally requires people who offer financial products to give information to investors before they invest. This information is designed to help investors to make an informed decision. 
    
  The usual rules do not apply to this offer because it is made under an employee share purchase scheme. As a result, you may not be given all the information usually required. You will also have fewer other legal protections for this investment. 
    
  Ask questions, read all documents carefully, and seek independent financial advice before committing yourself. 
    
  In addition, you are hereby notified that the documents listed below are available for review at the web address listed below: 

The Company s most recent Annual Report (Form 10-K), Quarterly Report (Form 10-Q) and published financial statements (in Form 10-K or Form 10-Q):   www.amgen.com 

The Plan, the Plan Prospectus and the Agreement:   www.benefits.ml.com    
       
  A copy of the above documents will be sent to you free of charge upon written request to [insert HR or similar email address]. 
    
  NORWAY 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  PERU 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Labor Law Acknowledgement.    The following provision supplements Section XI of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that the Units are being granted   ex gratia   to you with the purpose of rewarding you. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The grant of Units is considered a private offering in Peru; therefore, it is not subject to registration. 

APPENDIX A-  13 

POLAND 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    Polish residents holding foreign securities (including Shares) and maintaining accounts abroad must file reports with the National Bank of Poland if the aggregate value of Shares and cash held in such foreign accounts exceeds PLN 7,000,000. If required, the reports are due on a quarterly basis by the 20th day following the end of each quarter and must be filed on special forms available on the website of the National Bank of Poland. In addition, Polish residents are required to transfer funds through a bank account in Poland if the transferred amount in any single transaction exceeds a specified threshold (currently  15,000). You must store all documents connected with any foreign exchange transactions you engage in for a period of five (5) years from the end of the year when such transactions were made. Penalties may apply for failure to comply with exchange control requirements. 
    
  PORTUGAL 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
  Consent to Receive Information in English.    You hereby expressly declare that you have full knowledge of the English language and have read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions established in the Plan and Agreement. 
    
  Conhecimento da Lingua.    Por meio do presente, eu declaro expressamente que tem pleno conhecimento da l ngua inglesa e que li, compreendi e livremente aceitei e concordei com os termos e condi  es estabelecidas no Plano e no Acordo.    
    
  PUERTO RICO 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  ROMANIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    Any transfer of funds exceeding  15,000 (whether via one transaction or several transactions that appear to be linked to each other) must be reported to the National Office for Prevention and Control of Money Laundering on specific forms by the relevant bank or financial institution. If you deposit proceeds from the sale of Shares or the receipt of Dividends or Dividend Equivalents in a bank account in Romania, you may be required to provide the Romanian bank assisting with the transaction with appropriate documentation explaining the source of the income. You should consult with a legal advisor to determine whether you will be required to submit such documentation to the Romanian bank. 
    
  RUSSIA 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Requirements.    You understand and agree that, pursuant to Russian exchange control requirements, you will be required to repatriate to Russia the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares issued to you upon settlement of the Units and from the receipt of any Dividend Equivalents paid on such Shares, unless such proceeds will be paid into and held in your brokerage account in the U.S., for example, for reinvestment purposes.  As an express statutory exception to this requirement, cash Dividends (but not Dividend Equivalents) paid on Shares can be paid directly into a foreign bank or brokerage account opened with a foreign bank located in Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (   OECD   ) or Financial Action Task Force (   FATF   ) countries, without first remitting them to a bank account in Russia. As of January 1, 2018, cash proceeds from the sale of shares listed on one of the foreign stock exchanges on the list provided for by the Russian Federal law  On the Securities Market  can also be paid directly to a foreign bank or brokerage account opened with a bank located in an OECD or FATF country. Other statutory exceptions may apply, and you should consult with your personal legal advisory in this regard. 
    
  You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in Russia. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, you acknowledge that the Company reserves the right, in its sole discretion depending on developments in Russian exchange control laws and regulations, to force the immediate sale of any Shares to be issued upon vesting of the Units. You further agree that, if applicable, the Company is authorized to instruct Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB (or such other broker as may be designated by the Company) to assist with the mandatory sale of such Shares (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you expressly authorize Merrill  
  
   APPENDIX A-  14 

Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB (or such other broker as may be designated by the Company) to complete the sale of such Shares. You further acknowledge that Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB (or such other broker as may be designated by the Company) is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular trading price. Upon the sale of Shares, you will receive the cash proceeds from the sale of Shares, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to your obligations in connection with the Tax Obligations. 
    
  Securities Law Requirements.    Any Units granted hereunder, the Agreement, including this Appendix, the Plan and all other materials you may receive regarding your participation in the Plan or any Units granted hereunder do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia. The issuance of Shares under the Plan has not and will not be registered in Russia; therefore, Shares may not be offered or placed in public circulation in Russia. 
    
  In no event will Shares acquired under the Plan be delivered to you in Russia; all Shares will be maintained on your behalf in the United States. 
    
  You are not permitted to sell any Shares acquired under the Plan directly to a Russian legal entity or resident. 
    
  Labor Law Acknowledgement.    You acknowledge that if you continue to hold Shares acquired under the Plan after an involuntary termination of your employment, you will not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits in Russia. 
    
  Data Privacy Notice.    The following provision supplements Section XIV of the Agreement: 
    
  You understand and agree that you must complete and return a Consent to Processing of Personal Data (the    Consent   ) form to the Company. Further, you understand and agree that if you do not complete and return a Consent form to the Company, the Company will not be able to administer or maintain the Units. Therefore, you understand that refusing to complete a Consent form or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Russian residents are required to notify Russian tax authorities within one (1) month of opening, closing or changing the details of a foreign account. Russian residents also are required to report (i) the beginning and ending balances in such a foreign bank account each year and (ii) transactions related to such a foreign account during the year to the Russian tax authorities, on or before June 1 of the following year. The tax authorities can require you to provide appropriate supporting documents related to transactions in a foreign bank account. You are encouraged to contact your personal advisor before remitting your proceeds from participation in the Plan to Russia as exchange control requirements may change. 
    
  Anti-Corruption Legislation Information.    Individuals holding public office in Russia, as well as their spouses and dependent children, may be prohibited from opening or maintaining a foreign brokerage or bank account and holding any securities, whether acquired directly or indirectly, in a foreign company (including Shares acquired under the Plan). You should consult with your personal legal advisor to determine whether this restriction applies to your circumstances.  
    
  SINGAPORE 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Restriction on Sale and Transferability.    You hereby agree that any Shares acquired pursuant to the Units will not be offered for sale in Singapore prior to the six-month anniversary of the Grant Date, unless such sale or offer is made pursuant to one or more exemptions under Part XIII Division 1 Subdivision (4) (other than section 280) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chap. 289, 2006 Ed.) (   SFA    ). 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The grant of the Units is being made pursuant to the  Qualifying Person  exemption under section 273(1)(f) of the SFA, on which basis it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the SFA, and is not made with a view to the Units being subsequently offered for sale to any other party. The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. 
    
  Chief Executive Officer and Director Notification Requirement.    The Chief Executive Officer (   CEO   ) and the directors, associate directors and shadow directors of a Singapore Affiliate are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act. The CEO, directors, associate directors and shadow directors of a Singapore Affiliate must notify the Singapore  
  
   APPENDIX A-  15 

Affiliate in writing of an interest (  e.g.  , Units, Shares, etc.) in the Company or any related company within two (2) business days of (i) its acquisition or disposal, (ii) any change in a previously disclosed interest (  e.g.,   when the Shares are sold), or (iii) becoming the CEO or a director, associate director or shadow director. 
    
  SLOVAK REPUBLIC 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  SLOVENIA 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  SPAIN 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Labor Law Acknowledgement.    The following provision supplements Section XI of the Agreement:  
    
  By accepting the Units granted hereunder, you consent to participation in the Plan and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan. 
    
  You understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and in its sole discretion decided to grant any Units under the Plan to individuals who may be members of the Board or Employees of the Company or its Affiliates throughout the world. The decision is a limited decision, which is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any Units granted will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any of its Affiliates on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement, including this Appendix. Consequently, you understand that the Units granted hereunder are given on the assumption and condition that they shall not become a part of any employment contract (either with the Company or any of its Affiliates) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever. Further, you understand and freely accept that there is no guarantee that any benefit whatsoever shall arise from any gratuitous and discretionary grant of Units since the future value of the Units and the underlying Shares is unknown and unpredictable. In addition, you understand that any Units granted hereunder would not be made but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you understand, acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any grant of Units or right to Units shall be null and void. 
    
  Further, the vesting of the Units is expressly conditioned on your continued and active rendering of service, such that if your employment terminates for any reason whatsoever, the Units may cease vesting immediately, in whole or in part, effective on the date of your termination of employment (unless otherwise specifically provided in Section I of the Agreement). This will be the case, for example, even if (1) you are considered to be unfairly dismissed without good cause (  i.e.  , subject to a  despido improcedente  (2) you are dismissed for disciplinary or objective reasons or due to a collective dismissal; (3) you terminate service due to a change of work location, duties or any other employment or contractual condition; (4) you terminate service due to a unilateral breach of contract by the Company or an Affiliate; or (5) your employment terminates for any other reason whatsoever. Consequently, upon termination of your employment for any of the above reasons, you may automatically lose any rights to Units that were not vested on the date of your termination of employment, as described in the Plan and the Agreement. 
  You acknowledge that you have read and specifically accept the conditions referred to in Section I of the Agreement. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.   No  offer of securities to the public,  as defined under Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the Spanish territory. The Agreement (including this Appendix) has not been nor will it be registered with the   Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores  , and does not constitute a public offering prospectus.  
    
  Exchange Control Information.    If you acquire Shares under the Plan, you must declare the acquisition to the   Direccion General de Comercio e Inversiones   (the    DGCI   ). If you acquire the Shares through the use of a Spanish financial institution, that institution will automatically make the declaration to the DGCI for you; otherwise, you will be required to make the declaration by filing a D-6 form. You must declare ownership of any Shares with the DGCI each January while the Shares are owned and must also report, in January, any sale of Shares that occurred in the previous year for which the report is being made, unless the sale proceeds exceed the applicable threshold, in which case the report is due within one (1) month of the sale. 

APPENDIX A-  16 

Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You are required to declare electronically to the Bank of Spain any securities accounts (including brokerage accounts held abroad), as well as the Shares held in such accounts if the value of the transactions during the prior tax year or the balances in such accounts as of December 31 of the prior tax year exceed  1,000,000. 
  To the extent that you hold Shares and/or have bank accounts outside of Spain with a value in excess of  50,000 (for each type of asset) as of December 31 each year, you will be required to report information on such assets in your tax return (tax form 720) for such year.  After such Shares and/or accounts are initially reported, the reporting obligation will apply for subsequent years only if the value of any previously-reported Shares or accounts increases by more than  20,000 or if you sell or otherwise dispose of previously-reported Shares or accounts. If the value of such Shares and/or accounts as of December 31 does not exceed  50,000, a summarized form of declaration may be presented. 
    
  SWEDEN 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  SWITZERLAND 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The Awards are not intended to be publicly offered in or from Switzerland. Because this is a private offering in Switzerland, the Units are not subject to registration in Switzerland. Neither this document nor any other materials relating to the Units (i) constitutes a prospectus as such term is understood pursuant to article 652a of the Swiss Code of Obligations, (ii) may be publicly distributed nor otherwise made publicly available in Switzerland or (iii) have been or will be filed with, approved or supervised by any Swiss regulatory authority, including the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority ( FINMA ).  
    
  TAIWAN 
  NOTIFICATIONS 
  Exchange Control Information.    You may acquire and remit foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Shares or the receipt of Dividends or Dividend Equivalents) up to US$5,000,000 per year without justification. If the transaction amount is TWD500,000 or more in a single transaction, you must submit a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form. If the transaction amount is US$500,000 or more in a single transaction, you must also provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank. 
    
  THAILAND 
  NOTIFICATIONS 
  Exchange Control Information.    If proceeds from the sale of Shares or the receipt of any Dividends or Dividend Equivalents exceed US$50,000, you must (i) immediately repatriate such funds to Thailand and (ii) report the inward remittance to the Bank of Thailand on a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form. In addition, within three hundred and sixty (360) days of repatriation, you must either convert any funds repatriated to Thailand to Thai Baht or deposit the funds in a foreign exchange account with a Thai bank. 
    
  TUNISIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    You   may   be required to obtain prior authorization from the Central Bank of Tunisia (   CBT   ) for the acquisition of Shares under the Plan. Because you do not pay anything for the Units or the underlying Shares, the application of this requirement to the Units is unclear. For this reason, you should consult your personal legal advisor prior to vesting and settlement or, at the latest, prior to repatriation of any proceeds back to Tunisia at which time you may also be able to apply for any necessary authorization from the CBT. 
    
  If you hold assets (including Shares acquired under the Plan) outside of Tunisia and the value of such assets exceeds a certain threshold (currently TDN 500), you must declare the assets to the CBT within six (6) months of their acquisition. In addition, if you sell the Shares acquired under the Plan or receive cash Dividends or Dividend Equivalents paid in cash, you are required to  
  
   APPENDIX A-  17 

repatriate the proceeds to Tunisia. You are solely responsible for complying with all exchange control laws in Tunisia and should consult with your personal legal advisor in this regard. 
    
  TURKEY 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The Units are made available only to employees of the Company and its Affiliates, and the offer of participation in the Plan is a private offering. The grant of the Award and the issuance of Shares at vesting takes place outside of Turkey.  
    
  Exchange Control Information.    Any activity related to investments in foreign securities (  e.g.  , the sale of Shares under the Plan, the receipt of cash Dividends or Dividend Equivalents paid in cash) must be conducted through a bank or financial intermediary institution licensed by the Turkish Capital Markets Board and should be reported to the Turkish Capital Markets Board by the bank or intermediary assisting with the transaction. You should contact a personal legal advisor for further information regarding these requirements. 
       
  UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    Units under the Plan are granted only to select Board members and Employees of the Company and its Affiliates and are for the purpose of providing equity incentives. The Plan and the Agreement are intended for distribution only to such Board members and Employees and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other person. You should conduct your own due diligence on the Units offered pursuant to this Agreement. If you do not understand the contents of the Plan and/or the Agreement, you should consult an authorized financial adviser. The Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority and the Dubai Financial Services Authority have no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any documents in connection with the Plan. Further, the Ministry of the Economy and the Dubai Department of Economic Development have not approved the Plan or the Agreement nor taken steps to verify the information set out therein, and have no responsibility for such documents. 
    
  UNITED KINGDOM 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Tax Withholding.    This provision supplements Section III of the Agreement: 
    
  You agree that if you do not pay or your Employer or the Company does not withhold from you the full amount of income tax that you owe at issuance of Shares in respect of the Units, or the release or assignment of the Units for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Units (the    Taxable Event   ) within ninety (90) days after the end of the tax year in which the Taxable Event occurs, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (the    Due Date   ), then the amount that should have been withheld and/or paid shall constitute a loan owed by you to your Employer, effective on the Due Date. You agree that the loan will bear interest at the official rate of HM Revenue and Customs (   HMRC   ) and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or your Employer may recover it at any time thereafter (subject to Section III of the Agreement) by any of the means described in Section III of the Agreement. You also authorize the Company to delay the issuance of any Shares to you unless and until the loan is repaid in full. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are an executive officer or director within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time, the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply. In the event that you are an executive officer or director and income tax is not collected from you by the Due Date, the amount of any uncollected income tax may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and national insurance contributions (   NICs   ) may be payable. You acknowledge that you are responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to HMRC under the self-assessment regime and for reimbursing your Employer for the value of any NICs due on this additional benefit, which the Company or your Employer may recover from you by any of the means set forth in Section III of the Agreement. 
    
  If the maximum applicable withholding rate is used, any over-withheld amount may be credited to you by the Company or your Employer (with no entitlement to the Common Stock equivalent) or if not so credited, you may seek a refund from the local tax authorities. 
  
   APPENDIX A-  18 

Joint Election.    As a condition of the Units granted hereunder, you agree to accept any liability for secondary Class 1 National Insurance Contributions (the    Employer NICs   ), which may be payable by the Company or your Employer with respect to the Units and/or payment of the Units and issuance of Shares pursuant to the Units, the assignment or release of the Units for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Units. 
    
  Without limitation to the foregoing, you agree to make an election (the    Election   ), in the form specified and/or approved for such election by HMRC, that the liability for your Employer NICs payments on any such gains shall be transferred to you to the fullest extent permitted by law. You further agree to execute such other elections as may be required between you and any successor to the Company and/or your Employer. You hereby authorize the Company and your Employer to withhold such Employer NICs by any of the means set forth in Section III of the Agreement.  
    
  Failure by you to enter into an Election, withdrawal of approval of the Election by HMRC or a joint revocation of the Election by you and the Company or your Employer, as applicable, shall be grounds for the forfeiture and cancellation of the Units, without any liability to the Company or your Employer. 
    
  UNITED STATES 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Termination of Employment.    The following provision replaces Section I(i) of the Agreement: 
    
  (i)       termination of your active employment    shall mean the last date that you are either an active employee of the Company or an Affiliate or actively engaged as a Director of the Company or an Affiliate; in the event of termination of your employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), your right to receive Units and vest under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively employed;   provided  ,   however  , that such right will be extended by any notice period mandated by law (  e.g.  , the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (   WARN Act   ) notice period or similar periods pursuant to local law) and any paid administrative leave (as applicable), unless the Company shall provide you with written notice otherwise before the commencement of such notice period or leave;   provided further  , that in no event shall payment of the Units be made after the close of your taxable year which includes the applicable Vesting Date or, if later, after the 15   th    day of the third calendar month following the applicable Vesting Date; 
    
  VENEZUELA 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Form of Settlement - Units Payable Only in Shares.    Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the Units do not provide any right for you, as a resident of Venezuela, to receive a cash payment and shall be paid in Shares only. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company reserves the right to settle the Units in cash or force the immediate sale of any Shares acquired upon vesting or to otherwise amend or cancel the Units at any time in order to comply with the applicable exchange control laws in Venezuela. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    This offering is personal, private, exclusive and non-transferable and is made to you because you meet the eligibility requirements set forth in the Plan. This offering does not qualify as a public offering under the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and, therefore, previous authorization of the National Superintendent of Securities is not required. 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    Exchange control restrictions in force in Venezuela at any particular time may limit the ability to vest in the Units or to remit funds into Venezuela following the receipt of cash proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired upon vesting under the Plan. You are responsible for complying with exchange control laws in Venezuela and neither the Company, its Affiliates nor your Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws. Because exchange control laws and regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult with your personal legal advisor before accepting the Units to ensure compliance with current regulations. 
  
   APPENDIX A-  19 

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.7>
 4
 amgn-ex107_20161231x10k.htm
 FORM OF PERFORMANCE UNIT AGREEMENT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.7 

Form of Award Notice 
    
  [  The information set forth in this Award Notice will be contained on the related pages on Merrill Lynch Benefits Website (or the website of any successor company to Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB). This Award Notice shall be replaced by the equivalent pages on such website. References to Award Notice in this Agreement shall then refer to the equivalent pages on such website.  ]  
    
  This notice of Award (the    Award Notice   ) sets forth certain details relating to the grant by the Company to you of the Award identified below, pursuant to the Plan. The terms of this Award Notice are incorporated into the Agreement that accompanies this Award Notice and made part of the Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Notice that are not otherwise defined in this Award Notice have the meanings given to such terms in the Agreement.  
    
  Employee:         
  Employee ID:             
  Address:             
  Award Type:             
  Grant ID:         
           Plan: 
    Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 2009 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and/or restated from time to time 
              Program 
    Amgen Inc. 2009 Performance Award Program, as amended and/or restated from time to time 
     Grant Date:             
  Number of Shares 
  Number of Performance Units 
           Resolutions: 
    The Resolutions of the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Amgen Inc., adopted on                      , regarding the Amgen Inc. 2009 Performance Award Program, as amended from time to time 
              Performance Period: 
    The Performance Period beginning on                           and ending on                           . 
     Vesting Date:            Means the vesting date indicated in the Vesting Schedule 
           Vesting Schedule: 
    Means the schedule of vesting set forth under Vesting Details  
              Vesting Details: 
    Means the presentation (tabular or otherwise) of the Vesting Date and the quantity of Shares vesting. 
       
  IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF THE AWARD AND THE REQUIREMENT TO OPEN A BROKERAGE ACCOUNT      1   : 
    
  RESIDENTS OF THE U.S. AND PUERTO RICO  :  Please read this Award Notice, the Plan and the Agreement (collectively, the  Grant Documents ) carefully. If you, as a resident of the U.S. or Puerto Rico, do   not   wish to receive this Award and/or you do   not   consent and agree to the terms and conditions on which this Award is offered, as set forth in the Grant Documents, then you must reject the Award by contacting the Merrill Lynch call center (800) 97AMGEN (800-972-6436) within the U.S., Puerto Rico and Canada or +1 (609) 818-8910 from all other countries (Merrill Lynch will accept the charges for your call) no later than the forty-fifth calendar day following the day on which this Award Notice is made available to you, in which case the Award will be cancelled. For the purpose of determining the forty-five calendar days, Day 1 will be the day   immediately   following the day on which this Award Notice is made available to you. Your failure to notify the Company of your rejection of the Award within this specified period will constitute your acceptance of the Award and your agreement with all terms and conditions of the Award, as set forth in the Grant Documents. If you agree to the terms and conditions of your grant and you desire to accept it, then no further action is needed on your part to accept the grant. However, you must still open a brokerage account as directed by the Company, by 1:00 pm Pacific Time on or before the date that is 11 months after the date of grant. This step is necessary to process transactions related to your equity grant.   If you do not open a brokerage account by this deadline, your grant will be cancelled  . 

_________________________ 
   1    This provision is only for use on the form of grant used for the U.S. and Puerto Rico. 

PERFORMANCE UNIT AGREEMENT 
    
  THE SPECIFIC TERMS OF YOUR GRANT OF PERFORMANCE UNITS ARE FOUND IN THE PAGES RELATING TO THE GRANT OF PERFORMANCE UNITS FOUND ON MERRILL LYNCH BENEFITS WEBSITE (OR THE WEBSITE OF ANY SUCCESSOR COMPANY TO MERRILL LYNCH BANK   TRUST CO., FSB) (THE    AWARD NOTICE   ) WHICH ACCOMPANIES THIS DOCUMENT. THE TERMS OF THE AWARD NOTICE ARE INCORPORATED INTO THIS PERFORMANCE UNIT AGREEMENT. 
    
  On the Grant Date specified in the Award Notice, Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the    Company   ), has granted to you, the grantee named in the Award Notice, under the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 2009 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and/or restated from time to time (the    Plan   ), the Number of Performance Units (the    Performance Units   ) specified in the Award Notice on the terms and conditions set forth in this Performance Unit Agreement (and any applicable special terms and conditions for your country set forth in the attached   Appendix A   (as described in greater detail in Section XIV below)) (collectively, this    Agreement   ), the Plan, the Amgen Inc. 2009 Performance Award Program (the    Program   ) and the Resolutions (as defined below). Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Program. 
    
  I.  Performance Period  .  The Performance Period shall have the meaning set forth in the Award Notice. 
    
  II.  Value of Performance Units  .  The value of each Performance Unit is equal to a share of Common Stock. 
    
  III.  Performance Goals  .  An amount of the Performance Units up to the maximum amount specified in the Resolutions shall be earned, depending on the extent to which the Company   achieves   objectively determinable Performance Goals established by the Committee pursuant to the Resolutions. The Performance Units earned shall be calculated in accordance with the Resolutions and the Program. 
    
  IV.  Form and Timing of Payment  .  Subject to Section XIII and except as set forth in the Program, any Performance Units earned pursuant to Section III above shall be paid by the Company in Shares (on a one-to-one basis) or in cash based on the Fair Market Value of the number of Shares subject to the earned Performance Units as of the last day of the Performance Period, or in a combination of Shares and cash, as determined by the Administrator at any time prior to payment and in its discretion, as soon as practicable, and in any event within 90 days, after the last day of the Performance Period. Shares issued in respect of a Performance Unit shall be deemed to be issued in consideration of past services actually rendered by you to the Company or an Affiliate or for its benefit for which you have not previously been compensated or   for   future services to be rendered, as the case may be, which the Company deems to have a value at least equal to the aggregate par value thereof. 
    
  V.  Issuance of Certificates; Tax Withholding  .  Regardless of any action the Company or your actual employer (the    Employer   ) takes with respect to any or all income tax (including federal, state and local taxes), social insurance, payroll tax, fringe benefit tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and the Program and legally applicable to you (the    Tax Obligations   ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax Obligations is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount, if any, actually withheld by the Company and/or your Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Obligations in connection with any aspect of the Performance Units, including the grant of the Performance Units, the vesting of the Performance Units, the conversion of the Performance Units into shares or the receipt of an equivalent cash payment, the subsequent sale of any shares acquired at settlement and the receipt of any Dividends (as defined in Section VI, below); and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Performance Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax Obligations or to achieve any particular tax result. Furthermore, if you become subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction, you acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax Obligations in more than one jurisdiction. 
    
  Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or to your Employer (in their sole discretion) to satisfy all Tax Obligations. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/ or your Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy all applicable Tax Obligations by one or a combination of the following:         (a)     withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or your Employer; or 
    
  (b)    withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares issued upon settlement of the Performance Units, either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); or 

(c)    withholding in Shares to be issued or cash to be paid upon settlement of the Performance Units provided that, if Shares are withheld, the Company and your Employer shall only withhold an amount of Shares with a fair market value equal to the Tax Obligations. 
    
  Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax Obligations by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates. If the Tax Obligations are satisfied by withholding in Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of shares subject to the earned Performance Units, notwithstanding that a number of Shares is held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax Obligations due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan (any Shares withheld by the Company hereunder shall not be deemed to have been issued by the Company for any purpose under the Plan and shall remain available for issuance thereunder). 
    
  Finally, you shall pay to the Company or your Employer any amount of Tax Obligations that the Company or your Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan and the Program that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. You agree to take any further actions and to execute any additional documents as may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Section V. Notwithstanding Section IV above, the Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax Obligations. 
    
  VI.  Dividend Equivalents 
    
  (a)       Crediting of Dividend Equivalents  .  Subject to this Section VI, Dividend Equivalents shall be credited on each Performance Unit granted to you under this Agreement in the manner set forth in the remainder of this Section VI. If the Company declares one or more dividends or distributions (each, a    Dividend   ) on its Common Stock with a record date which occurs during the period commencing on the Grant Date through and including the day immediately preceding the day the Shares subject to the Performance Units are issued to you, whether in the form of cash, Common Stock or other property, then, on the date such Dividend is paid to the Company s stockholders, you shall be credited with an amount equal to the amount or fair market value of such Dividend which would have been payable to you if you held a number of Shares equal to the number of Performance Units granted to you on the Grant Date (including any previously credited Dividends which have been deemed to have been reinvested in Common Stock as provided by the next succeeding sentence), as of each such record date for each such Dividend (not including on any Performance Units which were previously paid or forfeited) as if each such amount had been reinvested in Common Stock as of the date of the payment of such Dividend (such accumulated dividends, the    Target Accumulated Dividends   ). Each such Dividend Equivalent shall be deemed to have been reinvested in Common Stock as of the Dividend payment date. Dividend Equivalents shall be payable in full Shares, unless the Administrator determines, at any time prior to payment and in its discretion, that they shall be payable in cash. Dividend Equivalents payable with respect to fractional Shares shall be paid in cash. 
    
  (b)      Treatment of Dividend Equivalents.    Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Section VI any Dividend Equivalents credited to you shall be subject to all of the provisions of this Agreement which apply to the Performance Units with respect to which they have been credited and shall be payable, if at all, at the time and to the extent that the underlying Performance Unit becomes payable. Dividend Equivalents shall not be payable on any Performance Units that do not vest, or are forfeited, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. 
    
  VII.  Nontransferability  .  No benefit payable under, or interest in, this Agreement or in the Shares that may become issuable to you hereunder shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any such attempted action shall be void and no such benefit or interest shall be, in any manner, liable for, or subject to, your or your beneficiary s debts, contracts, liabilities or torts;   provided, however  , nothing in this Section VII shall prevent transfer (i) by will or (ii) by applicable laws of descent and distribution.  
    
  VIII.  No Contract for Employment  .  This Agreement is not an employment or service contract with the Company or an Affiliate and nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the employ or service of the Company or an Affiliate, or of the Company or an Affiliate to continue your employment or service with the Company or an Affiliate. 
    
  IX.  Nature of Grant  .  In accepting the grant of Performance Units, you acknowledge, understand and agree that: 
    
  (a)    the Plan and the Program are established voluntarily by the Company, are discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, as provided in the Plan and in the Program;  

(b)    the grant of the Performance Units is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of Performance Units, or benefits in lieu of Performance Units, even if Performance Units have been awarded in the past;  
    
  (c)    all decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;  
    
  (d)    your participation in the Plan and the Program is voluntary; 
    
  (e)    the grant of Performance Units, the Shares subject to the Performance Units, and the income from and value of same, are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation; 
    
  (f)    neither the grant of Performance Units nor any provision of this Agreement, the Plan, the Program or the policies adopted pursuant to the Plan or Program confer upon you any right with respect to employment or continuation of current employment and shall not interfere with the ability of the Employer to terminate your employment or service relationship (if any) at any time;  
    
  (g) in the event that you are not an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, the Performance Units shall not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company or any Affiliate; 
    
  (h)    the future value of the Shares that may be earned upon the end of the Performance Period is unknown, indeterminable, and cannot be predicted with certainty;  
    
  (i)     in consideration of the grant of Performance Units hereunder, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination of Performance Units, and no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Performance Units resulting from termination of your employment by the Company or an Affiliate (regardless of the reason for such termination and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any) and you irrevocably release the Company and your Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim; 
    
  (j)    in the event of termination of your employment (regardless of the reason for such termination and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), your right to receive Performance Units and receive shares under the Plan and the Program, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period (  e.g.  , active employment would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any);  
    
  (k)    unless otherwise agreed with the Company, the Performance Units, the Shares subject to the Performance Units, and the income from and value of same, are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, the service you may provide as a director of an Affiliate of the Company; 
    
  (l)    except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Plan, the Performance Units and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the Performance Units or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of the Company; and 
    
  (m)    the following provisions apply only if you are providing services outside the United States: 
       
  (A)    for employment law purposes outside the United States, the Performance Units, the Shares subject to the Performance Units, and the income from and value of same, are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including but not limited to for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, holiday pay, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar mandatory payments; and 
    
  (B)    neither the Company, the Employer nor any Affiliate of the Company shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between your local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the Performance Units or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the settlement of the Performance Units or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired upon settlement. 

X.  No Advice Regarding Grant  .  The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan and the Program, or your acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. You should consult with your personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan and the Program before taking any action related thereto. 
    
  XI.  Notices  .  Any notices provided for in this Agreement, the Plan or the Program shall be given in writing or electronically and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail or equivalent foreign postal service, postage prepaid, addressed to you at such address as is currently maintained in the Company s records or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Company Stock Administrator. Such notices may be given using any automated system for the documentation, granting or exercise of Awards, such as a system using an internet website or interactive voice response, as approved by the Company. 
    
  XII.  Resolutions, Plan and Program  .  This Agreement is subject to all the provisions of the Resolutions, the Plan and the Program and their provisions are hereby made a part of this Agreement and incorporated herein by reference, including, without limitation, the provisions of Articles 5 and 9 of the Plan (relating to Performance-Based Compensation and Performance Awards, respectively) and Section 13.2 of the Plan (relating to adjustments upon changes in the Common Stock), and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Resolutions, the Plan and the Program, the provisions of the Plan shall control. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement or the Program to the contrary, any earned Performance Units paid in cash rather than Shares shall not be deemed to have been issued by the Company for any purpose under the Plan. 
    
  XIII.  No Compensation Deferral  .  The Performance Units are not intended to constitute  nonqualified deferred compensation  within the meaning of Section 409A of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time (together with the regulations and official guidance promulgated thereunder, the    Code   ). However, if at any time the Committee determines that the Performance Units may be subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion, and without your prior consent to amend the Program as it may determine is necessary or desirable either for the Performance Units to be exempt from the application of Section 409A of the Code or to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, including by adding conditions with respect to the vesting and/or the payment of the Performance Units, provided that no such amendment may change the Program s  performance goals,  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, with respect to any person who is a  covered employee,  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. Any such amendment to the Program may in the Committee s sole discretion apply retroactively to this award of Performance Units. 
    
  XIV.  Provisions Applicable to Participants in Foreign Jurisdictions  .  Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement or the Program to the contrary, if you are employed by the Company or an Affiliate in any of the countries identified in the attached   Appendix A   (which constitutes a part of this Agreement), are subject to the laws of any foreign jurisdiction, or relocate to one of the countries included in the attached   Appendix A  , your award of Performance Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions for such country set forth in   Appendix A   and to the following additional terms and conditions: 
    
  (a)    the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including   Appendix A  , are deemed modified to the extent necessary or advisable to comply with applicable foreign laws or facilitate the administration of the Plan and the Program; 
    
  (b)    if applicable, the effectiveness of your Award is conditioned upon its compliance with any applicable foreign laws, regulations, rules or local governmental regulatory exemption and subject to receipt of any required foreign regulatory approvals; 
    
  (c)    to the extent necessary to comply with applicable foreign laws, the payment of any earned Performance Units shall be made in cash or Common Stock, at the Company s election; and 
    
  (d)    the Committee may take any other action, before or after an award of Performance Units is made, that it deems necessary or advisable to obtain approval or comply with any necessary local governmental regulatory exemptions or approvals. 
    
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Company shall not take any actions hereunder, and no Award of Performance Units shall be granted, and no Shares payable with respect to an Award shall be issued, that would violate the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation, or the rules of any Securities Exchange. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, no Shares issuable with respect to an Award shall be issued unless such shares are then registered under the Securities Act, or, if such shares are not then so registered,  

the Company has determined that such issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and that the issuance satisfied all other applicable legal requirements. 
    
  XV.  Data Privacy and Notice of Consent  . You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company, and any Affiliates of the Company for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan and the Program. 
  You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, email address, date of birth, social insurance number (to the extent permitted under applicable local law), passport or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all equity compensation or any other entitlement to shares awarded, cancelled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan and the Program ( Data ).   
  You understand that Data may be transferred to Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB (or any successor thereto), any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan and the Program, that these recipients may be located in your country, or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the Employer, the Company, Affiliates of the Company, Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB (or any successor thereto), and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan and the Program to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan and the Program, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares received upon vesting of the Performance Units may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan and the Program. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service with the Employer will not be affected; the only consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you Performance Units or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan and the Program. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative. 
    
  XVI.  Language  .  If you have received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan and/or the Program translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control. 
    
  XVII.  Governing Law and Venue  .  The terms of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises hereunder, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of the State of Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States for the federal district located in the State of Delaware, and no other courts, where this Agreement is made and/or to be performed. 
    
  XVIII.  Severability  .  If one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provisions which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Agreement to be construed so as to foster the intent of this Agreement and the Plan. 
    
  XIX.  Electronic Delivery and Acceptance  .  The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan and/or the Program by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company. 

XX.  Imposition of Other Requirements  .  The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan and the Program, on the Performance Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.  
    
  XXI.  Waiver  .  You acknowledge that a waiver by the Company of breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement, or of any subsequent breach by you or any other grantee. 
    
  Very truly yours, 
  AMGEN INC. 

By:___________________________ 
  Name:  
  Title: 

Accepted and Agreed, 
  this ___ day of ______________, 20__. 

By: __________________________ 
  Name: ________________________ 

APPENDIX A 
    
  ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE 
  AMENDED AND RESTATED 
  AMGEN INC. 2009 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN,  
  AS AMENDED AND/OR RESTATED FROM TIME TO TIME 
    
  AWARD OF PERFORMANCE UNITS 
  (BY COUNTRY) 
    
  Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix A shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan and/or the Agreement to which this Appendix is attached. 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  This Appendix includes additional terms and conditions that govern any Performance Units granted under the Plan if, under applicable law, you are a resident of, are deemed to be a resident of or are working in one of the countries listed below.  Furthermore, the additional terms and conditions that govern the Performance Units granted hereunder may apply to you if you transfer employment and/or residency to one of the countries listed below and the Company shall, in its discretion, determine to what extent the terms and conditions contained herein shall apply to you. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  This Appendix also includes notifications relating to exchange control and other issues of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan. The information is based on the exchange control, securities and other laws in effect in the countries to which this Appendix refers as of October 2016. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you not rely on the notifications herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be outdated when you acquire Shares under the Plan, or when you subsequently sell Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program. 
    
  In addition, the notifications are general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you should seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation. Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you are currently residing and/or working or are considered a resident of another country for local law purposes, the information contained herein may not be applicable to you or you may be subject to the provisions of one or more jurisdictions. 
    
  ALL NON-U.S. JURISDICTIONS 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Insider Trading Restrictions/Market Abuse Laws.    Depending on your country, you may be subject to insider trading restrictions and/or market abuse laws, which may affect your ability to acquire or sell Shares or rights to Shares (  e.g  ., Performance Units) under the Plan during such times as you are considered to have  inside information  regarding the Company (as defined by the laws of your country). Any restrictions under these laws or regulations are separate from and in addition to any restrictions that may be imposed under any applicable Company insider trading policy. You are responsible for ensuring your compliance with any applicable restrictions and you should speak with your personal legal advisor on this matter. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Your country of residence may have certain foreign asset and/or account reporting requirements which may affect your ability to acquire or hold Shares under the Plan or cash received from participating in the Plan (including from any Dividends or Dividend Equivalents received, or sale proceeds arising from the sale of Shares) in a brokerage or bank account outside of your country. You may be required to report such accounts, assets or transactions to the tax or other authorities in your country. You are responsible for ensuring your compliance with such regulations, and you should speak with your personal legal advisor on this matter. 

APPENDIX A-  1 

AUSTRALIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Australia Offer Document.    The offer of the Award is intended to comply with the provisions of the Corporations Act 2001, ASIC Regulatory Guide 49 and ASIC Class Order CO 14/1000. Additional details are set forth in the Offer Document for the Offer of Performance Units to Australian Resident Employees. 
    
  Tax Information.    The Plan is a plan to which Subdivision 83A-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) (the    Act   ) applies (subject to the conditions in that Act). 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    If you are an Australian resident, exchange control reporting is required for cash transactions exceeding AUD10,000 and for international fund transfers. If an Australian bank is assisting with the transaction, the bank will file the report on your behalf. If there is no Australian bank involved in the transfer, you will be required to file the report. 
    
  AUSTRIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    If you are an Austrian resident and you hold Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program outside of Austria, you must submit a report to the Austrian National Bank. An exemption applies if the value of the Shares as of any given quarter does not meet or exceed  30,000,000 or if the value of the Shares in any given year as of December 31 does not meet or exceed  5,000,000. If the former threshold is exceeded, quarterly obligations are imposed, whereas if the latter threshold is exceeded, annual reports must be given. The quarterly reporting date is as of the last day of the respective quarter and the deadline for filing the quarterly report is the 15th day of the month following the end of the respective quarter. The annual reporting date is December 31 and the deadline for filing the annual report is January 31 of the following year. 
    
  A separate reporting requirement applies when you sell Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program, receive a cash Dividend paid on such Shares or Dividend Equivalents paid in cash. In that case, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds are held outside of Austria. If the transaction volume of all cash accounts abroad meets or exceeds  10,000,000, the movements and balances of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the 15th day of the following month, on the prescribed form (  Meldungen SI-Forderungen und/oder SI-Verpflichtungen  ). 
    
  BELGIUM 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Tax Reporting; Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are a Belgian resident, you are required to report any taxable income attributable to the Award granted hereunder on your annual tax return. You are also required to report any securities (  e.g.  , Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program) held and bank accounts (including brokerage accounts) opened and maintained outside of Belgium on your annual tax return. In a separate report, you are required to provide the National Bank of Belgium with the account details of any such foreign accounts (including the account number, bank name and country in which such account was opened). This report, as well as information on how to complete it, can be found on the website of the National Bank of Belgium,   www.nbb.be  , under the   Kredietcentrales / Centrales des cr dits   caption. 
    
  BRAZIL 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Compliance with Law  .  By accepting the Performance Units, you acknowledge that you agree to comply with applicable Brazilian laws and pay any and all applicable taxes associated with the vesting of the Performance Units, the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program, the payment of Dividends on such Shares and the receipt of any Dividend Equivalents paid in cash. 
  
   APPENDIX A-  2 

Nature of Grant.    This provision supplements Section IX of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting the grant of Performance Units, you acknowledge (i) that you are making an investment decision, (ii) that the Shares will be issued to you only if the vesting conditions are met and any necessary services are rendered by you during the vesting period set forth in the Vesting Schedule, and (iii) that the value of the underlying Shares is not fixed and may increase or decrease in value over the vesting period without compensation to you. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    If you are resident or domiciled in Brazil, you will be required to submit annually a declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank of Brazil if the aggregate value of such assets and rights equals or exceeds US$100,000. If such amount exceeds US$100,000,000, the referenced declaration must be submitted quarterly. Assets and rights that must be reported include the following: (i) bank deposits; (ii) loans; (iii) financing transactions; (iv) leases; (v) direct investments; (vi) portfolio investments, including Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program; (vii) financial derivatives investments; and (viii) other investments, such as real estate. Please note that foreign individuals holding Brazilian visas are considered Brazilian residents for purposes of this reporting requirement and must declare at least the assets held abroad that were acquired subsequent to the date of admittance as a resident of Brazil. Individuals holding assets and rights outside of Brazil valued at less than US$100,000 are not required to submit a declaration. 
    
  BULGARIA 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you make any payments to or receive any payments from abroad related to the Plan and the respective amount exceeds BGN 100,000, you should fill in and submit to the respective local bank a specific statistical form regarding the source of the income prior to the ordering of the payment or within thirty (30) days of receipt of a notice by the bank that the amount is in your bank account. 
    
  In addition, you will be required to annually file statistical forms with the Bulgarian National Bank regarding your receivables in bank accounts abroad as well as your securities abroad (  e.g.  , Shares acquired under the Plan) if the total sum of all such receivables and securities equals or exceeds BGN 50,000 as of the previous calendar year-end.  The reports are due by March 31. 
    
  CANADA 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS    
    
  Termination of Service.    This provision supplements Section IX(j) of the Agreement: 
    
  in the event of involuntary termination of your employment (regardless of the reason for such termination and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), your right to receive an Award and vest in such Award under the Plan and the Program, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of: (1) the date you receive notice of termination of employment from the Company or your Employer, or (2) the date you are no longer actively employed by the Company or your Employer regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under local law (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law). Your right, if any, to acquire Shares pursuant to an Award after termination of employment will be measured by the date of termination of your active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law; 
    
  Form of Settlement - Performance Units Payable Only in Shares.    Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or the Program or anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the Award does not provide any right for you, as a resident of Canada, to receive a cash payment and shall be paid in Shares only. 
    
  The following provisions will apply to you if you are a resident of Quebec: 
    
  Language Consent.    The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices, and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English. 
    
  Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig  la r daction en anglais de cette convention (    Agreement    ), ainsi que de tous documents, avis et proc dures judiciaires, ex cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s directement ou indirectement  , la pr sente convention. 

APPENDIX A-  3 

Data Privacy Notice and Consent.    This provision supplements Section XV of the Agreement: 
    
  You hereby authorize the Company and the Company s representative to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel (professional or not) involved in the administration and operation of the Plan and the Program. You further authorize the Company and your Employer to disclose and discuss your participation in the Plan with their advisors. You also authorize the Company and your Employer to record such information and keep it in your employee file. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information  .      You are permitted to sell Shares acquired through the Plan through the designated broker appointed under the Plan, if any, provided that the resale of such Shares takes place outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the Shares are listed (  i.e  ., the NASDAQ Global Select Market). 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Foreign property, including Shares, stock options and other rights to receive Shares (  e.g.  , Performance Units) of a non-Canadian company held by a Canadian resident employee generally must be reported annually on a Form T1135 (Foreign Income Verification Statement) if the total cost of the employee s foreign property exceeds C$100,000 at any time during the year. Thus, such stock options and Performance Units must be reported - generally at nil cost - if the C$100,000 cost threshold is exceeded because other foreign property is held by the employee. When Shares are acquired, their cost generally is the adjusted cost base (   ACB   ) of the Shares.  The ACB ordinarily would equal the fair market value of the Shares at the time of acquisition, but if the employee owns other shares of the same company, this ACB may have to be averaged with the ACB of the other shares. 
    
  CHILE 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The offer of Performance Units (   Units   ) constitutes a private offering in Chile effective as of the Grant Date. The offer of Units is made subject to ruling N  336 of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities and Insurance (   SVS   ). The offer refers to securities not registered at the securities registry or at the foreign securities registry of the SVS, and, therefore, such securities are not subject to oversight of the SVS. Given that the Units are not registered in Chile, the Company is not required to provide public information about the Units or the Shares in Chile. Unless the Units and/or the Shares are registered with the SVS, a public offering of such securities cannot be made in Chile. 
    
  Informaci n bajo la Ley de Mercado de Valores.    Esta oferta de Performance Units (   Unidades   ) constituye una oferta privada en Chile y se inicia en la Fecha de la Concesi n. Esta oferta de Unidades se acoge a las disposiciones de la Norma de Car cter General N  336 de la Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros de Chile (   SVS   ). Esta oferta versa sobre valores no inscritos en el Registro de Valores o en el Registro de Valores Extranjeros que lleva la SVS, por lo que tales valores no est n sujetos a la fiscalizaci n de  sta. Por tratarse las Unidades de valores no registrados en Chile, no existe obligaci n por parte de la Compa  a de entregar en Chile informaci n p blica respecto de los Unidades o sus Acciones. Estos valores no podr n ser objeto de oferta p blica en Chile mientras no sean inscritos en el Registro de Valores correspondiente. 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    You are responsible for complying with foreign exchange requirements in Chile. You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding any applicable exchange control obligations prior to vesting in the Performance Units or receiving proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired at vesting, cash Dividends or Dividend Equivalents. 
    
  You are not required to repatriate funds obtained from the sale of Shares or the receipt of any Dividends or Dividend Equivalents. However, if you decide to repatriate such funds, you must do so through the Formal Exchange Market if the amount of funds exceeds US$10,000. In such case, you must report the payment to a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office receiving the funds. If your aggregate investments held outside of Chile exceed US$5,000,000 (including Shares and any cash proceeds obtained under the Plan) in the relevant calendar year, you must report the investments quarterly to the Central Bank. Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations must be used to file this report. Please note that exchange control regulations in Chile are subject to change. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    The Chilean Internal Revenue Service (   CIRS   ) requires all taxpayers to provide information annually regarding: (i) the taxes paid abroad which they will use as a credit against Chilean income taxes, and (ii) the results of foreign investments. These annual reporting obligations must be complied with by submitting a sworn statement setting forth this information before March 15 of each year. The forms to be used to submit the sworn statement are Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad  and Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad.  If you are not a Chilean citizen and have been a resident in Chile for less than three (3) years, you are  
  
   APPENDIX A-  4 

exempt from the requirement to file Tax Form 1853. These statements must be submitted electronically through the CIRS website:   www.sii.cl  . 
    
  Investments abroad must also be registered with the CIRS for you to be entitled to a foreign tax credit for any tax withheld on Dividends abroad, if applicable, and such registration also provides evidence of the acquisition price of the Shares (which will be zero) which you will need when the Shares are sold. You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding how to register with the CIRS. 
    
  CHINA 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  The following terms apply only to individuals who are subject to exchange control restrictions in the People s Republic of China (the  PRC ), as determined by the Company in its sole discretion  : 
    
  Vesting of the Performance Units.    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Article 7.1 of the Program, if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates at any time during the Performance Period, you shall forfeit all Performance Units. 
    
  Sale Requirement.    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement, due to exchange control laws in the PRC, you agree that the Company reserves the right to require the immediate sale of any Shares acquired upon settlement of the Performance Units. You understand and agree that any such immediate sale of Shares will occur as soon as is practical following settlement of the Performance Units. Alternatively, if the Shares are not immediately sold upon settlement of the Performance Units, the Company will require the sale of any Shares you may then hold within six (6) months (or such other period as may be required under applicable legal or exchange control requirements) following the termination of your employment with the Company, including its Affiliates. 
    
  You agree that the Company is authorized to instruct Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB or such other designated broker as may be selected by the Company to assist with the sale of the Shares on your behalf pursuant to this authorization, and you expressly authorize such broker to complete the sale of such Shares. You also agree to sign any agreements, forms and/or consents that may be reasonably requested by the Company (or the Company s designated broker) to effectuate the sale of the Shares (including, without limitation, as to the transfers of the proceeds and other exchange control matters noted below) and to otherwise cooperate with the Company with respect to such matters, provided that you shall not be permitted to exercise any influence over how, when or whether the sales occur. Upon the sale of the Shares, you will receive the cash proceeds from the sale, less any applicable Tax Obligations, brokerage fees or commissions, in accordance with applicable exchange control laws and regulations. 
    
  You acknowledge that Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB or such other designated broker as may be selected by the Company is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular price. Due to fluctuations in the Share price and/or applicable exchange rates between the settlement date and (if later) the date on which the Shares are sold, the amount of proceeds ultimately distributed to you may be more or less than the market value of the Shares on the settlement date (which is the amount relevant to determining your liability for Tax Obligations). You understand and agree that the Company is not responsible for the amount of any loss that you may incur and that the Company assumes no liability for any fluctuations in the Share price and/or any applicable exchange rate. 
    
  Designated Broker Account.    If Shares issued upon the settlement of the Performance Units are not immediately sold, you acknowledge that you are required to maintain the Shares in an account with Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB or such other designated broker as may be selected by the Company until the Shares are sold through such Company-designated broker. 
    
  Exchange Control Requirements.    You understand and agree that, pursuant to local exchange control requirements, you will be required to repatriate the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares issued upon settlement of the Performance Units and from the receipt of any Dividends or Dividend Equivalents to China. You further understand that, under applicable laws, such repatriation of your cash proceeds will need to be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company or any Affiliate, including the Employer, and you hereby consent and agree that any proceeds may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to you. You also understand that the Company will deliver the proceeds to you as soon as possible, but that there may be delays in distributing the funds to you due to exchange control requirements in China. Proceeds may be paid to you in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion. If the proceeds are paid to you in U.S. dollars, you will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. If the proceeds are paid to you in local currency, the Company is under no obligation to secure any particular currency conversion rate and the Company may face delays in converting the proceeds to local currency due to exchange control restrictions. You further agree to comply  
  
   APPENDIX A-  5 

with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China. 
    
  COLOMBIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The Shares are not and will not be registered with the Colombian registry of publicly traded securities (  Registro Nacional de Valores y Emisores  ) and therefore the Shares may not be offered to the public in Colombia. Nothing in this document should be construed as the making of a public offer of securities in Colombia. 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    Investment in assets located abroad (such as Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program) does not require prior approval from the Central Bank (Banco de la Rep blica). Nonetheless, such investments are subject to exchange control regulations. If you are a Colombian resident and the value of your aggregate investments held abroad (including Shares) equals or exceeds US$500,000 as of December 31 of the applicable calendar year, these investments must be registered with the Central Bank. Upon the sale or other disposition of investments (including Shares, Dividends and Dividend Equivalents) which have been registered with the Central Bank, the registration with the Central Bank must be cancelled no later than March 31 of the year following the year of the sale or disposition (or a fine of up to 200% of the value of the infringing payment will apply). When investments held abroad are sold or otherwise disposed of, regardless of whether they have been registered with the Central Bank, Colombian residents must repatriate the proceeds to Colombia by selling currency to a Colombian bank and filing the appropriate form. 
    
  CROATIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    Croatian residents must report any foreign investments (including Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program) to the Croatian National Bank for statistical purposes. Prior approval from the Croatian National Bank for bank accounts opened abroad is no longer required to be obtained. You should be aware that exchange control regulations in Croatia are subject to frequent change and you are solely responsible for ensuring your continued compliance with current Croatian exchange control laws. 
    
  CZECH REPUBLIC 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Proceeds from the sale of Shares, any Dividends paid on such Shares or Dividend Equivalents may be held in a cash account abroad and you are no longer required to report the opening and maintenance of a foreign account to the Czech National Bank (the    CNB   ), unless the CNB notifies you specifically that such reporting is required. Upon request of the CNB, you may need to file a notification within fifteen (15) days of the end of the calendar quarter in which you acquire Shares. 
    
  DENMARK 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Danish Stock Option Act.    In accepting the Performance Units, you acknowledge that you have received an Employer Statement translated into Danish, which is being provided to comply with the Danish Stock Option Act. To the extent more favorable to you and required to comply with the Stock Option Act, the terms set forth in the Employer Statement will apply to your participation in the Plan. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS    
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you establish an account holding shares or an account holding cash outside of Denmark, you must report the account to the Danish Tax Administration. The form which should be used in this respect can be obtained from a local bank. (These obligations are separate from and in addition to the obligations described below.) 
    
  Securities/Tax Reporting Information.    If you hold Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside of Denmark, you are required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account. For this purpose,  
  
   APPENDIX A-  6 

you must sign and file a Form V (  Erklaering V  ) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both you and the broker/bank must sign the Form V, unless an exemption from the broker/bank signature requirement is obtained from the Danish Tax Administration. It is possible to seek an exemption on the Form V, which you should do at the time you submit the Form V. By signing the Form V, you and the broker or bank undertake an obligation, without further request each year, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the brokerage-deposit account as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of Form V can be found at the following website:   www.skat.dk  . 
    
  In addition, if you open a brokerage or bank account with a U.S. bank, the account will be treated as a  deposit account  because cash can be held in the account. Therefore, you also must file a Form K (  Erklaering K  ) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both you and the broker/bank must sign the Form K, unless an exemption from the broker/bank signature requirement is obtained from the Danish Tax Administration. It is possible to seek an exemption on the Form K, which you should do at the time you submit the Form K. By signing the Form K, you and the broker or bank undertake an obligation, without further request each year, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form K, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of Form K can be found at the following website:   www.skat.dk  . 
    
  EGYPT 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS    
    
  Exchange Control Information.    If you transfer funds into Egypt in connection with the Performance Units, you are required to transfer the funds through a registered bank in Egypt. 
    
  FINLAND 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  FRANCE 
    
  terms and Conditions 
    
  Language Consent.    By accepting the Award, you confirm having read and understood the Plan and Agreement which were provided in the English language. You accept the terms of these documents accordingly. 
    
  En acceptant l prix, vous confirmez avoir lu et compris le Plan et le Contrat, qui ont  t  communiqu s en langue anglaise. Vous acceptez les termes de ces documents en connaissance de cause. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    French residents and non-residents must declare to the Customs Authorities the cash and securities they import or export without the use of a financial institution when the value of such cash or securities exceeds  10,000. French residents also must report all foreign bank and brokerage accounts on an annual basis (including accounts opened or closed during the tax year) on a specific form together with the income tax return. Failure to comply could trigger significant penalties. 
    
  GERMANY 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS    
    
  Exchange Control Information  .  Cross-border payments in excess of  12,500 must be reported monthly to the German Federal Bank (  Bundesbank  ). In case of payments in connection with securities (including proceeds realized upon the sale of Shares or the receipt of Dividends or Dividend Equivalents), the report must be made by the 5th day of the month following the month in which the payment was received and must be filed electronically. The form of report (  Allgemeine Meldeportal Statistik  ) can be accessed via the Bundesbank s website (www.bundesbank.de) and is available in both German and English. You are responsible for satisfying any applicable reporting obligation. 

APPENDIX A-  7 

GREECE 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  HONG KONG 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Form of Settlement - Performance Units Payable Only in Shares.    Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or the Program or anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the Award does not provide any right for you, as a resident of Hong Kong, to receive a cash payment and shall be paid in Shares only. 
    
  Sale of Shares.    Shares received at vesting are accepted as a personal investment. In the event that Shares are issued in respect of Performance Units within six (6) months of the Grant Date, you agree that you will not offer to the public or otherwise dispose of such shares prior to the six (6)-month anniversary of the Grant Date. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  SECURITIES WARNING:    The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. You should exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Appendix, or the Plan, you should obtain independent professional advice. The Performance Units and any Shares issued in respect of the Performance Units do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to members of the Board and Employees. The Agreement, including this Appendix, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong. The Performance Units and any documentation related thereto are intended solely for the personal use of each member of the Board and/or Employee and may not be distributed to any other person. 
    
  HUNGARY 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  ICELAND 
    
  Notifications 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    You should consult with your personal advisor to ensure compliance with applicable exchange control regulations in Iceland as such regulations are subject to frequent change. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Iceland. 
    
  INDIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    You understand that you must repatriate any cash Dividends paid on Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program to India or any Dividend Equivalents paid in cash within one hundred and eighty (180) days of receipt, and the Program and any proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program to India within ninety (90) days of receipt. You will receive a foreign inward remittance certificate ( FIRC ) from the bank where you deposit the foreign currency, and you must maintain the FIRC as proof of repatriation of funds in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or the Employer requests proof of repatriation. It is your responsibility to comply with these requirements. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information  .  You are required to declare foreign bank accounts and any foreign financial assets (including Shares held outside of India) in your annual tax return. It is your responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and you should consult your personal tax advisor in this regard. 

APPENDIX A-  8 

IRELAND 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Nature of Grant.    This provision supplements Section IX of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting the grant of Performance Units, you acknowledge that the benefits received under the Plan will not be taken into account for any redundancy or unfair dismissal claim. 
    
  ITALY  
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Data Privacy Notice.    The following provision replaces Section XV of the Agreement: 
    
  You understand that the Employer, the Company and any Affiliate may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, email address, date of birth, social insurance (to the extent permitted under Italian law), passport or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Company or any Affiliate, details of all Awards granted, or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, managing and administering the Plan and the Program ( Data ). 
    
  You also understand that providing the Company with Data is necessary for the performance of the Plan and the Program and that your refusal to provide such Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan and the Program. The Controller of personal data processing is Amgen Inc., with registered offices at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., and, pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, its Representative in Italy for privacy purposes is Amgen Dompe S.p.A., with registered offices at Via Tazzoli, 6 - 20154 Milan, Italy. 
    
  You understand that Data will not be publicized, but it may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions, or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan and the Program. You understand that Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company. You further understand that the Company and/or any Affiliate will transfer Data among themselves as necessary for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan and the Program, and that the Company and/or any Affiliate may each further transfer Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration, and management of the Plan and the Program, including any requisite transfer of Data to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any Shares issued in respect of the Award. Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain, and transfer Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Plan and the Program. You understand that these recipients may be located in or outside of the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere. Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan and the Program, it will delete Data as soon as it has completed all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan and the Program. 
    
  You understand that Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions, as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003. 
    
  The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as herein specified and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto, as the processing is necessary to performance of contractual obligations related to implementation, administration, and management of the Plan. You understand that, pursuant to Section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right to, including but not limited to, access, delete, update, correct, or terminate, for legitimate reason, the Data processing. 
    
  Furthermore, you are aware that Data will not be used for direct-marketing purposes. In addition, Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your local human resources representative. 

APPENDIX A-  9 

Nature of Grant.    In accepting the grant of Performance Units, you acknowledge that (1) you have received a copy of the Plan, the Program, the Agreement and this Appendix; (2) you have reviewed the applicable documents in their entirety and fully understand the contents thereof; and (3) you accept all provisions of the Plan, the Program, the Agreement and this Appendix. 
    
  You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and explicitly approve, without limitation, the following sections of the Agreement: Section III, Section IV, Section V, Section IX, Section IV, Section XV (as replaced by the above consent), Section XVI and Section XX. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Italian residents who, at any time during the fiscal year, hold foreign financial assets (including cash and Shares) which may generate income taxable in Italy are required to report these assets on their annual tax returns (UNICO Form, RW Schedule) for the year during which the assets are held, or on a special form if no tax return is due. These reporting obligations will also apply to Italian residents who are the beneficial owners of foreign financial assets under Italian money laundering provisions. 
    
  Foreign Financial Assets Tax.    The fair market value of any Shares held outside of Italy     is subject to a foreign assets tax. The market value is considered to be the value of the Shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on December 31 of the applicable year in which you held the Shares (or when the Shares are acquired during the course of the year, the tax is levied in proportion to the actual days of holding over the calendar year). You should consult with your personal tax advisor about the foreign financial assets tax. 
    
  JAPAN 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information  .  You will be required to report to the Japanese tax authorities details of any assets held outside of Japan as of December 31st (including any Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program) to the extent such assets have a total net fair market value exceeding  50,000,000. Such report will be due by March 15 each year. You should consult with your personal tax advisor as to whether the reporting obligation applies to you and whether you will be required to include in the report details of any Shares or cash that you hold. 
    
  JORDAN 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  KOREA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    You are required to repatriate any proceeds of US$500,000 or more realized in a single transaction from the sale of Shares or the receipt of Dividends or Dividend Equivalents to Korea within three (3) years of receipt. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You are required to declare all foreign financial accounts (  e.g.   non-Korean bank accounts, brokerage accounts holding Shares, etc.) to the Korean tax authority and file a report regarding such accounts if the monthly balance of such accounts exceeds KRW1,000,000,000 (or an equivalent amount in foreign currency) on any month-end date during a calendar year. It is your responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and you should consult your personal tax advisor to ensure compliance with this requirement. 
    
  LATVIA 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  LEBANON 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The Plan does not constitute the marketing or offering of securities in Lebanon pursuant to Law No. 161 (2011), the Capital Markets Law. Offerings under the Plan are being made only to eligible Employees of the Employer, the Company or an Affiliate. 

APPENDIX A-  10 

LITHUANIA 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  MEXICO 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Acknowledgement of the Grant.    In accepting the Award granted hereunder, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan and the Program, have reviewed the Plan and the Program and the Agreement, including this Appendix, in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan, the Program and the Agreement, including this Appendix. You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve the terms and conditions of Section IX of the Agreement, in which the following is clearly described and established: 
    
  (1)    Your participation in the Plan and the Program do not constitute an acquired right. 
    
           (2) 
    The Plan and your participation in the Plan and the Program are offered by Amgen Inc. on a wholly discretionary basis. 
       
  (3)    Your participation in the Plan and the Program is voluntary. 
    
           (4) 
    Amgen Inc. and its Affiliates are not responsible for any decrease in the value of any Shares issued with respect to the Award. 
       
  Labor Law Acknowledgement and Policy Statement.    In accepting any Award granted hereunder, you expressly recognize that Amgen Inc., with registered offices at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of Shares do not constitute an employment relationship between you and Amgen Inc. since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your sole employer is Amgen Latin America Services, S.A. de C.V. (   Amgen-Mexico   ). Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the Program and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan and the Program do not establish any rights between you and your Employer, Amgen-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by Amgen-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment. 
    
  You further understand that your participation in the Plan and the Program is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of Amgen Inc.; therefore, Amgen Inc. reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation in the Plan at any time without any liability to you. 
    
  Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against Amgen Inc. for any compensation or damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to Amgen Inc., its Affiliates, shareholders, officers, agents or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise. 
    
  Spanish Translation  
    
  Reconocimiento del Otorgamiento.    Al aceptar cualquier Otorgamiento de Acciones bajo el presente documento, usted reconoce que ha recibido una copia del Plan y del Programa, que ha revisado el Plan y el Programa, as  como tambi n el Ap ndice en su totalidad, adem s que comprende y est  de acuerdo con todas las disposiciones tanto del Plan, del Programa y del Otorgamiento, incluyendo este Ap ndice. Asimismo, usted reconoce que ha le do y manifiesta espec ficamente y expresamente la conformidad con los t rminos y condiciones establecidos en la Secci n IX del Acuerdo del Otorgamiento, en los que se establece y describe claramente que: 
    
  (1)    Su participaci n en el Plan y en el Programa de ninguna manera constituye un derecho adquirido. 
    
  (2)    Su participaci n en Plan y en el Programa son ofrecidos por Amgen Inc. de forma completamente discrecional. 
    
  (3)    Su participaci n en el Plan y en el Programa es voluntaria. 

APPENDIX A-  11 

(4)    Amgen Inc. y sus Afiliados no son responsables de ninguna disminuci n en el valor de las Acciones Comunes emitidas mediante el Plan. 
    
  Reconocimiento de la Ley Laboral y Declaraci n de Pol tica.   Al aceptar cualquier Otorgamiento bajo el presente, usted reconoce expresamente que Amgen Inc., con oficinas registradas localizadas en One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., es la  nica responsable de la administraci n del Plan y que su participaci n en el mismo y la adquisici n de Acciones Comunes no constituyen de ninguna manera una relaci n laboral entre usted y Amgen Inc., debido a que su participaci n en el Plan es  nicamente una relaci n comercial y que su  nico empleador es Amgen Latin America Services, S.A. de C.V. (   Amgen-Mexico   ). Derivado de lo anterior, usted reconoce expresamente que el Plan y el Programa y los beneficios a su favor que pudieran derivar de la participaci n en el mismo, no establecen ning n derecho entre usted y su empleador, Amgen - M xico, y no forman parte de las condiciones laborales y/o los beneficios otorgados por Amgen - M xico, y cualquier modificaci n del Plan o la terminaci n del mismo no constituir  un cambio o desmejora de los t rminos y condiciones de su trabajo. 
    
  Asimismo, usted entiende que su participaci n en el Plan y en el Programa es resultado de la decisi n unilateral y discrecional de Amgen Inc., por lo tanto, Amgen Inc. se reserva el derecho absoluto de modificar y/o descontinuar su participaci n en el Plan en cualquier momento y sin ninguna responsabilidad para usted. 
    
  Finalmente, usted manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho que origine una demanda en contra de Amgen Inc., por cualquier compensaci n o da os y perjuicios, en relaci n con cualquier disposici n del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en consecuencia usted exime amplia y completamente a Amgen Inc. de toda responsabilidad, como as  tambi n a sus Afiliadas, accionistas, directores, agentes o representantes legales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir. 
    
  MOROCCO 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Sale Requirement.    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement, due to exchange control laws in Morocco, you agree that the Company reserves the right to require the immediate sale of any Shares acquired upon settlement of the Performance Units. Alternatively, if the Shares are not immediately sold upon settlement of the Performance Units, the Company may require the sale of any Shares at a later date, including upon termination of your employment. 
    
  You agree that the Company is authorized to instruct Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB or such other designated broker as may be selected by the Company to assist with the sale of the Shares on your behalf pursuant to this authorization, and you expressly authorize such broker to complete the sale of such Shares. You also agree to sign any agreements, forms and/or consents that may be reasonably requested by the Company (or the Company s designated broker) to effectuate the sale of the Shares (including, without limitation, as to the transfers of the proceeds and other exchange control matters noted below) and to otherwise cooperate with the Company with respect to such matters, provided that you shall not be permitted to exercise any influence over how, when or whether the sales occur. Upon the sale of the Shares, you will receive the cash proceeds from the sale, less any applicable Tax Obligations, brokerage fees or commissions, in accordance with applicable exchange control laws and regulations. 
    
  You acknowledge that Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB or such other designated broker as may be selected by the Company is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular price. Due to fluctuations in the Share price and/or applicable exchange rates between the settlement date and (if later) the date on which the Shares are sold, the amount of proceeds ultimately distributed to you may be more or less than the market value of the Shares on the settlement date (which is the amount relevant to determining your liability for Tax Obligations). You understand and agree that the Company is not responsible for the amount of any loss that you may incur and that the Company assumes no liability for any fluctuations in the Share price and/or any applicable exchange rate. 
    
  Designated Broker Account.    If Shares issued upon the settlement of the Performance Units are not immediately sold, you acknowledge that you are required to maintain the Shares in an account with Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB or such other designated broker as may be selected by the Company until the Shares are sold through such Company-designated broker. 
    
  Exchange Control Requirements.    You understand and agree that, pursuant to local exchange control requirements, you will be required to repatriate the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares issued upon settlement of the Performance Units to Morocco. You further understand that such repatriation of your cash proceeds may be effectuated through a bank account established by the Company or any Affiliate, including the Employer, and you hereby consent and agree that any proceeds from the sale of the Shares may be transferred to such bank account prior to being delivered to you. If repatriation of your cash proceeds is not effectuated through a bank account established by the Company or any Affiliate, including the Employer, you hereby agree to maintain your own records proving repatriation and to provide copies of these records upon request by the Company or any Affiliate, including  
  
   APPENDIX A-  12 

the Employer, or the Moroccan Exchange Control Office (  Office des Changes  ). Further, you acknowledge and understand that the net proceeds that you realize from your participation in the Plan must be converted from U.S. dollars to Dirham, and that neither the Company nor any Affiliate, including the Employer, has any obligation to, but may nonetheless, convert the net proceeds on your behalf using any exchange rate chosen by the Company; if funds are so converted, they will be converted as soon as practicable after sale, which may not be immediately after the sale date. Further, if such currency conversion occurs, you will bear the risk of any fluctuation in the U.S. dollar/Dirham exchange rate between the date you realize U.S. dollar proceeds from your participation in the Plan and the date that you receive cash proceeds converted to Dirham. You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in Morocco. 
    
  NETHERLANDS 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information. 

Attention! This investment falls outside AFM supervision. 
        
    No prospectus required for this activity. 

NEW ZEALAND 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    Warning. This is an offer of Amgen Inc. Shares. Shares give you a stake in the ownership of Amgen Inc. You may receive a return if Dividends are paid. Amgen Inc. Shares are quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. This means you may be able to sell them on the NASDAQ Global Select Market if there are interested buyers. You may get less than you invested. The price will depend on the demand for the Shares. 
    
  If Amgen Inc. runs into financial difficulties and is wound up, you will be paid only after all creditors have been paid. You may lose some or all of your investment. 
    
  New Zealand law normally requires people who offer financial products to give information to investors before they invest. This information is designed to help investors to make an informed decision. 
    
  The usual rules do not apply to this offer because it is made under an employee share purchase scheme. As a result, you may not be given all the information usually required. You will also have fewer other legal protections for this investment. 
    
  Ask questions, read all documents carefully, and seek independent financial advice before committing yourself. 
    
  In addition, you are hereby notified that the documents listed below are available for review at the web address listed below: 

The Company s most recent Annual Report (Form 10-K), Quarterly Report (Form 10-Q) and published financial statements (in Form 10-K or Form 10-Q):   www.amgen.com 

The Plan, the Plan Prospectus and the Agreement:   www.benefits.ml.com 
       
  A copy of the above documents will be sent to you free of charge upon written request to [insert HR or similar email address]. 
    
  NORWAY 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 

APPENDIX A-  13 

PERU 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Labor Law Acknowledgement.    The following provision supplements Section IX of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that the Performance Units are being granted   ex gratia   to you with the purpose of rewarding you. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information  .  The grant of Performance Units is considered a private offering in Peru; therefore, it is not subject to registration. 
    
  POLAND 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    Polish residents holding foreign securities (including Shares) and maintaining accounts abroad must file reports with the National Bank of Poland if the aggregate value of Shares and cash held in such foreign accounts exceeds PLN 7,000,000. If required, the reports are due on a quarterly basis by the 20th day following the end of each quarter and must be filed on special forms available on the website of the National Bank of Poland. In addition, Polish residents are required to transfer funds through a bank account in Poland if the transferred amount in any single transaction exceeds a specified threshold (currently  15,000). You must store all documents connected with any foreign exchange transactions you engage in for a period of five (5) years from the end of the year when such transactions were made. Penalties may apply for failure to comply with exchange control requirements. 
    
  PORTUGAL 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
  Consent to Receive Information in English.    You hereby expressly declare that you have full knowledge of the English language and have read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions established in the Plan, the Program and Agreement. 
    
  Conhecimento da Lingua.    Por meio do presente, eu declaro expressamente que tem pleno conhecimento da l ngua inglesa e que li, compreendi e livremente aceitei e concordei com os termos e condi  es estabelecidas no Plano, no Programa e no Acordo. 
    
  PUERTO RICO 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  ROMANIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    Any transfer of money exceeding  15,000 (whether via one transaction or several transactions that appear to be linked to each other) must be reported to the National Office for Prevention and Control of Money Laundering on specific forms by the relevant bank or financial institution. If you deposit proceeds from the sale of Shares or the receipt of Dividends or Dividend Equivalents in a bank account in Romania, you may be required to provide the Romanian bank assisting with the transaction with appropriate documentation explaining the source of the income. You should consult with a legal advisor to determine whether you will be required to submit such documentation to the Romanian bank. 
    
  RUSSIA 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Requirements.    You understand and agree that, pursuant to Russian exchange control requirements, you will be required to repatriate to Russia the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares issued to you upon settlement of the Performance  
  
   APPENDIX A-  14 

Units and from the receipt of any Dividend Equivalents paid on such Shares, unless such proceeds will be paid into and held in your brokerage account in the U.S., for example, for reinvestment purposes. As an express statutory exception to this requirement, cash Dividends (but not Dividend Equivalents) paid on Shares can be paid directly into a foreign bank or brokerage account opened with a foreign bank located in Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (   OECD   ) or Financial Action Task Force (   FATF   ) countries, without first remitting them to a bank account in Russia. As of January 1, 2018, cash proceeds from the sale of Shares listed on one of the foreign stock exchanges on the list provided for by the Russian Federal law  On the Securities Market  (such as Shares acquired under the Plan) can also be paid directly to a foreign bank or brokerage account opened with a bank located in an OECD or FATF country. Other statutory exceptions may apply, and you should consult with your personal legal advisory in this regard. 
    
  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, you acknowledge that the Company reserves the right, in its sole discretion, depending on developments in Russian exchange control laws and regulations, to force the immediate sale of any Shares to be issued upon vesting of the Award granted hereunder. You further agree that, if applicable, the Company is authorized to instruct Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB (or such other broker as may be designated by the Company) to assist with the mandatory sale of such Shares (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you expressly authorize Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB (or such other broker as may be designated by the Company) to complete the sale of such Shares. You further acknowledge that Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB (or such other broker as may be designated by the Company) is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular trading price. Upon the sale of Shares, you will receive the cash proceeds from the sale of such Shares, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to your obligations in connection with the Tax Obligations. 
    
  Securities Law Requirements.    The Award granted hereunder, the Agreement, including this Appendix, the Program, the Plan and all other materials you may receive regarding your participation in the Plan and the Program or the Award granted hereunder do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia. The issuance of Shares in respect of the Award has not and will not be registered in Russia; therefore, such shares may not be offered or placed in public circulation in Russia. 
    
  In no event will Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program be delivered to you in Russia; all Shares will be maintained on your behalf in the United States. 
    
  You are not permitted to sell any Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program directly to a Russian legal entity or resident. 
    
  Labor Law Acknowledgement.    You acknowledge that if you continue to hold Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program after an involuntary termination of your employment, you will not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits in Russia. 
    
  Data Privacy Notice.    The following provision supplements Section XV of the Agreement: 
    
  You understand and agree that you must complete and return a Consent to Processing of Personal Data (the    Consent   ) form to the Company. Further, you understand and agree that if you do not complete and return a Consent form to the Company, the Company will not be able to administer or maintain the Performance Units. Therefore, you understand that refusing to complete a Consent form or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Russian residents are required to notify Russian tax authorities within one (1) month of opening, closing or changing the details of a foreign account. Russian residents also are required to report (i) the beginning and ending balances in such a foreign bank account each year and (ii) transactions related to such a foreign account during the year to the Russian tax authorities, on or before June 1 of the following year. The tax authorities can require you to provide appropriate supporting documents related to transactions in a foreign bank account. You are encouraged to contact your personal advisor before remitting your proceeds from participation in the Plan to Russia as exchange control requirements may change. 
    
  Anti-Corruption Legislation Information.    Individuals holding public office in Russia, as well as their spouses and dependent children, may be prohibited from opening or maintaining a foreign brokerage or bank account and holding any securities, whether acquired directly or indirectly, in a foreign company (including Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program). You should consult with your personal legal advisor to determine whether this restriction applies to your circumstances. 

APPENDIX A-  15 

SINGAPORE 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Restriction on Sale and Transferability.    You hereby agree that any Shares acquired pursuant to the Performance Units will not be offered for sale in Singapore prior to the six-month anniversary of the Grant Date, unless such sale or offer is made pursuant to one or more exemptions under Part XIII Division 1 Subdivision (4) (other than section 280) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chap. 289, 2006 Ed.) (    SFA    ). 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The grant of the Performance Units is being made pursuant to the  Qualifying Person  exemption under section 273(1)(f) of the SFA, on which basis it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the SFA, and is not made with a view to the Performance Units being subsequently offered for sale to any other party. The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. 
    
  Chief Executive Officer and Director Notification Requirement.    The Chief Executive Officer (   CEO   ) and the directors, associate directors and shadow directors of a Singapore Affiliate are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act. The CEO, directors, associate directors and shadow directors must notify the Singapore Affiliate in writing of an interest (  e.g.  , Performance Units, Shares, etc.) in the Company or any related company within two (2) business days of (i) its acquisition or disposal, (ii) any change in a previously disclosed interest (  e.g.,   when the Shares are sold), or (iii) becoming the CEO or a director, associate director or shadow director. 
    
  SLOVAK REPUBLIC 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  SLOVENIA 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  SPAIN 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Labor Law Acknowledgement.    The following provision supplements Section IX of the Agreement: 
    
  By accepting the Award granted hereunder, you consent to participation in the Plan and the Program and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan and the Program. 
    
  You understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and in its sole discretion decided to grant the Award under the Plan and the Program to individuals who may be members of the Board or Employees of the Company or its Affiliates throughout the world. The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that the Awards granted will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any of its Affiliates on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the applicable Agreement, including this Appendix. Consequently, you understand that the Award granted hereunder is given on the assumption and condition that it shall not become a part of any employment contract (either with the Company or any of its Affiliates) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever. Further, you understand and freely accept that there is no guarantee that any benefit whatsoever shall arise from any gratuitous and discretionary grant of the Award since the future value of the Award and any Shares that may be issued in respect of such Award is unknown and unpredictable. In addition, you understand that the Award granted hereunder would not be made but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you understand, acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then the grant of the Award or right to the Award shall be null and void. 
    
  Further, the vesting of the Performance Units is expressly conditioned your continued and active rendering of service, such that if your employment terminates for any reason whatsoever, the Performance Units may cease vesting immediately, in whole or in part, effective on the date of your termination of employment (unless otherwise specifically provided in Section I of the Agreement). This will be the case, for example, even if (1) you are considered to be unfairly dismissed without good cause (  i.e.  , subject to a  despido improcedente  (2) you are dismissed for disciplinary or objective reasons or due to a collective dismissal; (3) you  
  
   APPENDIX A-  16 

terminate service due to a change of work location, duties or any other employment or contractual condition; (4) you terminate service due to a unilateral breach of contract by the Company or an Affiliate; or (5) your employment terminates for any other reason whatsoever. Consequently, upon termination of your employment for any of the above reasons, you may automatically lose any rights to Performance Units that were not vested on the date of your termination of employment, as described in the Plan and the Agreement. 
  You acknowledge that you have read and specifically accept the conditions referred to in Section I of the Agreement. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    No  offer of securities to the public,  as defined under Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the Spanish territory. The Agreement (including this Appendix) has not been nor will it be registered with the   Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores  , and does not constitute a public offering prospectus. 
    
  Exchange Control Information.   If you acquire Shares under the Plan, you must declare the acquisition to the   Direccion General de Comercio e Inversiones   (   DGCI   ). If you acquire the Shares through the use of a Spanish financial institution, that institution will automatically make the declaration to the DGCI for you; otherwise, you will be required to make the declaration by filing a D-6 form. You must declare ownership of any Shares with the DGCI each January while the Shares are owned and must also report, in January, any sale of Shares that occurred in the previous year for which the report is being made, unless the sale proceeds exceed the applicable threshold, in which case the report is due within one (1) month of the sale. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You are required to declare electronically to the Bank of Spain any securities accounts (including brokerage accounts held abroad), as well as the Shares held in such accounts if the value of the transactions during the prior tax year or the balances in such accounts as of December 31 of the prior tax year exceed  1,000,000. 
    
  To the extent that you hold Shares and/or have bank accounts outside of Spain with a value in excess of  50,000 (for each type of asset) as of December 31 each year, you will be required to report information on such assets in your tax return (tax form 720) for such year. After such Shares and/or accounts are initially reported, the reporting obligation will apply for subsequent years only if the value of any previously-reported Shares or accounts increases by more than  20,000 or if you sell or otherwise dispose of previously-reported Shares or accounts. If the value of such Shares and/or accounts as of December 31 does not exceed  50,000, a summarized form of declaration may be presented. 
       
  SWEDEN 
    
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    
  SWITZERLAND 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The Awards are not intended to be publicly offered in or from Switzerland. Because this is a private offering in Switzerland, the Performance Units are not subject to registration in Switzerland. Neither this document nor any other materials relating to the Performance Units (i) constitutes a prospectus as such term is understood pursuant to article 652a of the Swiss Code of Obligations, (ii) may be publicly distributed nor otherwise made publicly available in Switzerland or (iii) have been or will be filed with, approved or supervised by any Swiss regulatory authority, including the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority ( FINMA ). 
    
  TAIWAN 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.     You may acquire and remit foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Shares or the receipt of Dividends or Dividend Equivalents) up to US$5,000,000 per year without justification. If the transaction amount is TWD500,000 or more in a single transaction, you must submit a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form. If the transaction amount is US$500,000 or more in a single transaction, you must also provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank. 

APPENDIX A-  17 

THAILAND 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    If proceeds from the sale of Shares or the receipt of any Dividends or Dividend Equivalents exceed US$50,000, you must (i) immediately repatriate such funds to Thailand and (ii) report the inward remittance to the Bank of Thailand on a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form. In addition, within three hundred and sixty (360) days of repatriation, you must either convert any funds repatriated to Thailand to Thai Baht or deposit the funds in a foreign exchange account with a Thai bank. 
    
  TUNISIA 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    You   may   be required to obtain prior authorization from the Central Bank of Tunisia (   CBT   ) for the acquisition of Shares under the Plan and the Program. Because you do not pay anything for the Performance Units or the underlying Shares, the application of this requirement to the Performance Units is unclear. For this reason, you should consult your personal legal advisor prior to vesting and settlement or, at the latest, prior to repatriation of any proceeds back to Tunisia at which time you may also be able to apply for any necessary authorization from the CBT. 
    
  If you hold assets (including Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program) outside of Tunisia and the value of such assets exceeds a certain threshold (currently TDN 500), you must declare the assets to the CBT within six (6) months of their acquisition. In addition, if you sell the Shares acquired under the Plan and the Program or receive cash Dividends or Dividend Equivalents paid in cash, you are required to repatriate the proceeds to Tunisia. You are solely responsible for complying with all exchange control laws in Tunisia and should consult with your personal legal advisor in this regard. 
    
  TURKEY 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    The Performance Units are made available only to employees of the Company and its Affiliates, and the offer of participation in the Plan is a private offering. The grant of the Award and the issuance of Shares at vesting takes place outside of Turkey. 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    Any activity related to investments in foreign securities (  e.g.  , the sale of Shares under the Plan, the receipt of cash Dividends or Dividend Equivalents paid in cash) must be conducted through a bank or financial intermediary institution licensed by the Turkish Capital Markets Board and should be reported to the Turkish Capital Markets Board by the bank or intermediary assisting with the transaction. You should contact a personal legal advisor for further information regarding these requirements. 
    
  UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    Performance Units under the Plan are available only to Participants under the Program and are for the purpose of providing equity incentives. The Plan, the Program and the Agreement are intended for distribution only to such Participants and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other person. You should conduct your own due diligence on the Performance Units offered pursuant to this Agreement. If you do not understand the contents of the Plan and/or the Agreement, you should consult an authorized financial adviser. The Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority and the Dubai Financial Services Authority have no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any documents in connection with the Plan. Further, the Ministry of the Economy and the Dubai Department of Economic Development have not approved the Plan or the Agreement nor taken steps to verify the information set out therein, and have no responsibility for such documents. 

APPENDIX A-  18 

UNITED KINGDOM 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Tax Withholding.    This provision supplements Section V of the Agreement: 
    
  You agree that if you do not pay or your Employer or the Company does not withhold from you the full amount of income tax that you owe due at issuance of Shares in respect of the Performance Units, or the release or assignment of the Performance Units for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Performance Units (the    Taxable Event   ) within ninety (90) days after the end of the tax year in which the Taxable Event occurs, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (the    Due Date   ), then the amount that should have been withheld and/or paid shall constitute a loan owed by you to your Employer, effective on the Due Date. You agree that the loan will bear interest at the official rate of HM Revenue and Customs (   HMRC   ) and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or your Employer may recover it at any time thereafter (subject to Section V of the Agreement) by any of the means described in Section V of the Agreement. You also authorize the Company to delay the issuance of any Shares to you unless and until the loan is repaid in full. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are an executive officer or director (as within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act, as amended), from time to time, the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply. In the event that you are an executive officer or director and income tax is not collected from or paid by you by the Due Date, the amount of any uncollected income tax may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and national insurance contributions (   NICs   ) may be payable. You acknowledge that you are responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to HMRC under the self-assessment regime and for reimbursing your Employer for the value of any NICs due on this additional benefit, which the Company or the Employer may recover from you by any of the means set forth in Section V of the Agreement. 
    
  If the maximum applicable withholding rate is used, any over-withheld amount may be credited to you by the Company or your Employer (with no entitlement to the Common Stock equivalent) or if not so credited, you may seek a refund from the local tax authorities. 
    
  Joint Election.    As a condition of the Award, you agree to accept any liability for secondary Class 1 National Insurance Contributions (the    Employer NICs   ) which may be payable by the Company or your Employer with respect to the earning and/or payment of the Performance Units and issuance of Shares in respect of the Performance Units, the assignment or release of the Performance Units for consideration or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Performance Units. 
    
  Without limitation to the foregoing, you agree to make an election (the    Election   ), in the form specified and/or approved for such election by HMRC, that the liability for your Employer NICs payments on any such gains shall be transferred to you to the fullest extent permitted by law. You further agree to execute such other elections as may be required between you and any successor to the Company and/or your Employer. You hereby authorize the Company and your Employer to withhold such Employer NICs by any of the means set forth in Section V of the Agreement. 
    
  Failure by you to enter into an Election, withdrawal of approval of the Election by HMRC or a joint revocation of the Election by you and the Company or your Employer, as applicable, shall be grounds for the forfeiture and cancellation of the Performance Units, without any liability to the Company or your Employer. 
    
  UNITED STATES 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Nature of Grant.    The following provision replaces Section IX(j) of the Award Agreement: 
    
  (j)    in the event of termination of your employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), your right to receive Performance Units and receive Shares under the Plan and the Program, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively employed;   provided  ,   however  , that such right will be extended by any notice period mandated by law (  e.g  ., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (   WARN Act   ) notice period or similar periods pursuant to local law) and any paid administrative leave (as applicable), unless the Company shall provide you with written notice otherwise before the commencement of such notice period or leave. In such event, payment of the Performance Units shall be made in accordance with Section IV. 

APPENDIX A-  19 

VENEZUELA 
    
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  Form of Settlement - Performance Units Payable Only in Shares.    Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the Performance Units do not provide any right for you, as a resident of Venezuela, to receive a cash payment and shall be paid in Shares only. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company reserves the right to settle the Performance Units in cash or force the immediate sale of any Shares acquired upon vesting or to otherwise amend or cancel the Performance Units at any time in order to comply with the applicable exchange control laws in Venezuela. 
    
  NOTIFICATIONS 
    
  Securities Law Information.    This offering is personal, private, exclusive and non-transferable and is made to you because you meet the eligibility requirements set forth in the Plan. This offering does not qualify as a public offering under the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and, therefore, previous authorization of the National Superintendent of Securities is not required. 
    
  Exchange Control Information.    Exchange control restrictions in force in Venezuela at any particular time may limit the ability to vest in the Performance Units or to remit funds into Venezuela following the receipt of cash proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired upon vesting under the Plan. You are responsible for complying with exchange control laws in Venezuela and neither the Company, its Affiliates or your Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws. Because exchange control laws and regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult with your personal legal advisor before accepting the Units to ensure compliance with current regulations. 
  
   APPENDIX A-  20 

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.20>
 5
 amgn-ex1020_20161231x10k.htm
 AGREEMENT BETWEEN AMGEN INC. AND MS. LORI A. JOHNSTON

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.20 

October 25, 2016 

Lori A. Johnston 
  XXXXXXXXXXXX 
  XXXXXXXXXXXX 
    
  Dear Lori: 
    
  On behalf of Amgen, I am pleased to offer you the position of SVP Human Resources, Level 10, reporting to Robert A. Bradway. This offer and the compensation listed are subject to your appointment by our Board of Directors (the Board) and the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the Compensation Committee) providing final approval of the compensation listed in this letter. 
    
  Your salary will be paid bi-weekly in the amount of   $25,000.00  , with 26 pay periods in one year, less federal and state tax deductions and other applicable deductions and withholdings. 
    
  Provided that you sign a  Sign-On/Retention Bonus Agreement for New Hire Staff Members  in the form provided by Amgen, you will be eligible to earn a bonus of   $2,000,000.00  , less federal and state tax deductions and other applicable deductions and withholdings, subject to the terms of that Agreement. Please review that Agreement for information regarding timing and other payment details. 
    
  You will be granted time-vested restricted stock units (RSUs) valued at   $800,000.00  . The actual number of RSUs will be determined by dividing   $800,000.00   by the closing price of Amgen common stock on the expected grant date occurring 2 business days after the release of Amgen s fourth quarter 2016 earnings release, currently anticipated to be February 1, 2017, providing you are actively employed on that date. Upon each applicable vesting date, you will receive a number of shares of Amgen common stock equal to the number of restricted stock units that vest, less any shares that are withheld to satisfy applicable taxes. This grant will vest beginning with the first anniversary of the grant date through the fourth anniversary of the grant date at a rate of 25% each year, respectively, contingent upon your being actively employed by Amgen through each vesting date. 
    
  Restricted stock units will be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the applicable grant agreement. 
    
  In addition, beginning in 2017, you will be eligible to receive additional grants as part of Amgen s Long Term Incentive (LTI) program. Grants under the LTI program are discretionary as approved by the Compensation Committee. 
    
  You will be eligible to participate in Amgen s Global Management Incentive Plan (the  GMIP ) pursuant to the terms of the GMIP. Your annual target incentive opportunity will be   80%   of your base salary earnings during the plan year. Awards under the GMIP are discretionary. Your actual GMIP bonus may be more or less than this target amount, and may vary based on Company performance, any other criteria selected by the Company, and management s assessment of your individual performance and contribution. You must be actively employed through the last regularly scheduled Amgen business day of the plan year to be eligible for that year s GMIP bonus. 
    
  You are also eligible to participate in the Amgen Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (the  DCP ) to voluntarily defer, on a pre-tax basis, a portion of your annual earnings, including base salary, commissions, and/or GMIP bonus. Shortly after commencing your employment at Amgen, you will receive an enrollment e-mail regarding the DCP plan for Amgen. A Q A regarding the DCP will be provided to you. 
    
  Amgen will credit   $2,300,000.00   on your behalf to the DCP as a  Company Contribution Amount  (as defined in the DCP). Your   $2,300,000.00   Company Contribution Amount will vest as follows, contingent on your employment at each vesting date: 
    
  33%   on the 1   st    anniversary of the date of your employment with Amgen and its subsidiaries. 
  33%   on the 2   nd    anniversary of the date of your employment with Amgen and its subsidiaries.     
  34%   on the 3   rd    anniversary of the date of your employment with Amgen and its subsidiaries. 
    
  Upon vesting, each portion of the contribution plus any gains or losses is subject to FICA and will be withheld as soon as possible from your next available payroll check. 
    
  This credit, plus any credited earnings (or minus any losses) will be paid to you after your  Separation from Service  (as defined in the DCP) in accordance with the terms of the DCP. Generally, Separation from Service means the termination of your employment  
  
   1 

with Amgen and its subsidiaries. Please note that Company contributions are not eligible for the Short-Term Payout provision of the DCP. 
    
  In addition, your position will make you eligible to participate in the Amgen Inc. Change of Control Severance Plan, as amended from time to time (the  COC ) as a Group I Participant according to the terms of the COC. COC eligibility and benefit levels are determined immediately prior to a  Change of Control  as defined in the COC. If, upon your termination, you are eligible to receive severance benefits under the COC and you are also eligible to receive severance benefits from another plan agreement or other source, you will be paid the greater of the amount from that plan or the amount provided in the COC, but not both amounts. A copy of the COC will be provided to you. 
    
  If, within the first 3 years of your employment with Amgen, Amgen terminates your employment without  Cause , as defined below, you will be entitled to the benefits described in this paragraph (the  Termination Paragraph), provided that you sign a general release in the form furnished to you by Amgen and do not timely revoke it. The following are such benefits: two (2) times the sum of your annual base salary, then in effect, and target cash incentive opportunity (i.e., GMIP or successor bonus plan target, which is currently 80%), then in effect, paid in a lump sum as soon as administratively practicable, but in no event later than March 15 of the year following the year in which Amgen terminates your employment and (2) if you elect continuation coverage under the Amgen group medical and dental plans for yourself and your qualified beneficiaries under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 ( COBRA ), Amgen will pay the cost of such coverage until the earlier to occur of the following: (A) eighteen (18) months following your termination of employment or (B) the date on which you are no longer eligible for such COBRA coverage. Please note that this Termination Paragraph does not alter the at-will nature of your employment at Amgen.  
    
  For purposes of the Termination Paragraph,  Cause  means: (i) unfitness for service, inattention to or neglect of duties, or incompetence; (ii) dishonesty; (iii) disregard or violation of the policies or procedures of Amgen; (iv) refusal or failure to follow lawful directions of Amgen; (v) illegal, unethical or immoral conduct; (vi) breach of Amgen s Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement entered into by you; or (vii) any other reason set forth in California Labor Code Section 2924, in all cases, as determined by Amgen. 
    
  As an executive at Amgen, you will be eligible for the following: an annual physical examination provided by Amgen; and, reimbursement for up to $15,000.00, less federal and state tax deductions and other applicable deductions and withholdings, for financial counseling, tax preparation and related services. This value will be treated as imputed income for purposes of tax treatment. 
    
  You will also have the opportunity to participate in our comprehensive benefits program. Amgen s excellent health care plan currently includes medical, dental, and vision coverage for you and your eligible dependents. Amgen currently pays the major expense for these programs while staff members share through payroll deductions. Please be advised that in order for you and your dependents to be eligible for Amgen s medical coverage you must: 
    
           1. 
    Report to work at Amgen or another location to which you are required to travel and perform the regular duties of your employment. 
               3. 
    Meet all other eligibility requirements under the plan. 
       
  The Amgen Retirement and Savings Plan, our 401(k) plan, provides an opportunity for you to save a percentage of your pay (based on Internal Revenue Service limits) on a tax-deferred basis. Amgen will also contribute to your 401(k) account to help you save for your future financial goals. These benefits, services and programs are summarized in the enclosed brochure called  A Guide to Total Rewards at Amgen.  
    
  This offer of employment is contingent upon confirmation by Amgen of information listed on your employment application, and the receipt by Amgen of satisfactory results from a background verification and pre-employment drug test. Your drug test will be scheduled as soon as practicable following your acceptance of this offer. 
    
  Enclosed and included as part of this offer is information regarding Amgen's Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement, the Immigration Reform   Control Act, and a packet of materials entitled "Arbitration of Disputes" which includes a Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Claims. Also enclosed and included as part of this offer in Attachment 1 is information regarding Amgen's New Staff Member Letter and Certification. This offer is contingent upon you truthfully and accurately completing the Certification, and returning it to the Company before your first day of employment. 
    
  This offer of employment is contingent upon your completing the items described in Attachment 1, and upon your ability to perform for Amgen all of the duties of your position without restriction from, or violation of, any enforceable contractual obligations owed to any former employer or entity for whom you worked or provided service(s). 
  
   2 

Also enclosed and included, as part of this offer (Offer Letter Benefit Summary), is information about the main points of the relocation assistance that Amgen will provide to you to relocate to the  local area.  Please note that relocation assistance is contingent upon your execution of the enclosed  Amgen Relocation Agreement for New Hire Staff Members,  subject to the terms of that Agreement, and that     relocation benefits are limited to one benefits package per household. 
    
  You will be contacted by a Relocation Counselor to initiate your relocation benefits within 7 business days after receipt of your signed acceptance of this offer and your signed New Hire Relocation Agreement. 
    
  By signing this letter, you understand and agree that your employment with Amgen is at-will. Therefore, your employment can terminate, with or without cause, and with or without notice, at any time, at your option or Amgen's option, and Amgen can terminate or change all other terms and conditions of your employment, with or without cause, and with or without notice, at any time. This at-will relationship will remain in effect throughout your employment with either Amgen Inc. or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates. This letter, its enclosures, and materials stated to be provided to you constitute the entire agreement, arrangement and understanding between you and Amgen on the nature and terms of your employment with Amgen, including, but not limited to, the kind, character and existence of your proposed job duties, the length of time your employment will last, and the compensation you will receive. This letter, its enclosures, supersedes any prior or contemporaneous agreement, arrangement or understanding on this subject matter. By executing this letter as provided below, you expressly acknowledge the termination of any such prior agreement, arrangement or understanding, except as referenced in this letter and/or its enclosures. Also, by your execution of this letter, you affirm that no one has made any written or oral statement that contradicts the provisions of this letter or its enclosures. The at-will nature of your employment, as set forth in this paragraph, can be modified only by a written agreement signed both by Amgen's CEO or General Counsel and you which expressly alters it. This at-will relationship may not be modified by any oral or implied agreement or by any Company policies, practices or patterns of conduct. 
    
  The complete terms of the plans, programs and policies referenced to in this letter are set forth in their respective documents, which are maintained by the Company. The Company reserves the right to amend or terminate any of these plans, programs or policies at any time, in its sole discretion. In the event of any difference between this offer letter and the provisions of the respective plan, program or policy document, the respective document will govern. 
    
  We are enthusiastic to welcome you back to Amgen and about the contribution you can make, and we believe that Amgen can provide you with attractive opportunities for personal achievement and growth. I look forward to your favorable reply by   November 1, 2016.   If you accept our offer, please sign, date and scan a copy of the letter and any attachments requiring signatures and return it by email to Greg XXXXXXX at XXXXXXXXXXXX. Please retain copies for your records. If you have any questions regarding this offer, please contact me at (805) 447-XXXX or Greg XXXXXXX     at (805) 447-XXX. 
    
  Sincerely, 
    
  /s/ Brian McNamee 
    
  Brian McNamee 
  Executive Vice President, Full Potential Initiatives 
    
  Enclosures 
    
  /s/ Lori A. Johnston                            10/28/2016 
           Signature of Acceptance 
         Date 
       
  XXXX 
  Last 4 Digits of Social Security Number (For Identification Purposes) 
  Last 4 Digits of Government ID (If No Social Security Number) 
    
  12/9/2016 
  Anticipated   Start Date (Hereinafter -  Hire Date ) 

3 

ATTACHMENT 1 

In order to accept our offer you will be required to: 
    
           A) 
    Complete, date and sign the Amgen Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement and return it with your signed offer letter. 
       
           B) 
    Sign and date the Amgen New Staff Member Letter and Certification and return it with your signed offer letter. 
       
           C) 
    Date and sign the enclosed Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Claims and return it with your signed offer letter. 
       
           D) 
    You will be required to provide Amgen with proof of your identity and eligibility for employment per requirements of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 within 3 (three) days of hire. Information pertaining to this Act and required proof are enclosed. 
       
           E)  
    For California non-exempt staff only, sign and date the Notice To Employee, Labor Code 2810.5 
     
   4 

NEW STAFF MEMBER LETTER AND CERTIFICATION 
    
  Welcome to Amgen (the  Company ).  The Company has no need to learn and does not want any proprietary, confidential or trade secret information or other property that belongs to any prior employers, entities or other persons you have worked for (collectively,  Prior Employers ). Please review and comply with the following instructions and policies, and execute the Certification below. 

Carefully read the Company s Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement ( PIIA ) that you have executed, and make sure that you understand your obligations under the terms of the PIIA. If you have any questions, please contact Human Resources. 

You may not bring any material to the Company from third parties in hard copy, in electronic format or in any other form. Nor should you use any such material in your work for the Company. 

Prior to commencing any work for the Company, conduct a search of your personal computer(s), email accounts, and any other electronic storage devices you possess, as well as any files you maintain in hard copy, for information or materials belonging to your Prior Employers. You are instructed to make appropriate arrangements to return any such information or materials belonging to your Prior Employers, consistent with any obligations you have to the Prior Employers. 

Do not disclose to or provide the Company with any customer lists you obtained from or during your employment with your Prior Employers. When interacting with doctors or other members of the healthcare industry with whom you may have had contact while working for your Prior Employers, clearly indicate to such persons that you are an Amgen staff member, and focus on the Company s products rather than using or discussing information related to your prior employment. 

If you have any doubts regarding whether you may take, disclose, upload, access, or use any information in your possession, you must err on the side of not taking, disclosing, uploading, accessing or using the information. 

Do not begin any work for the Company before your employment with your Prior Employers has officially ended. 

After commencing work for the Company, do not request that any employee of your Prior Employers provide you with, or take any other steps to obtain, any information or property of your Prior Employers. 

Under no circumstances are you permitted to connect to a Company computer any electronic storage device containing information or property relating to your Prior Employers. Likewise, in performing work for the Company, you are not permitted to use, disclose, access or upload any such information or property. If you discover that any confidential, proprietary, or trade secret information or property of your Prior Employers has been uploaded to any Company computer or email system(s), immediately inform Human Resources. 

The Company may monitor and/or conduct an audit of your use of Company computer systems, and you should not have any expectation of privacy in data sent, stored or received on any Company systems. See the Company s Use of Company Systems and Internet Conduct Policy for further details. 

Disclose and identify below all agreements relating to your Prior Employers that may affect your eligibility to become employed by and/or to perform work for the Company, including any non-competition agreement(s), agreements relating to the solicitation of employees or customers, or other restrictive agreements (collectively,  Restrictive Agreements ), regardless of whether you believe these agreements are enforceable, apply to your potential employment with the Company, or have expired, and provide a copy to Human Resources. If  none,  please so indicate.   Do not leave blank. 

5 

Name of Agreement                Employer                    Date signed 
           
  Restrictive Cov. Agreement            Celanese                    10/8/2012       
    
  _________________________        __________________________        ________      
    
  (Attach additional sheets, if necessary) 

If you are subject to an agreement not to solicit employees of your Prior Employers, you should refrain from doing so. You should specifically inform Human Resources if you are subject to such an agreement. If you are subject to such an agreement and a former colleague contacts you about employment opportunities with the Company, please contact Human Resources for assistance. 

Do not use any email account (including Company email accounts), text messages, Instant Messaging, or any other method of written communication to store or discuss any proprietary, confidential or trade secret information or other property belonging to your Prior Employers. 

Immediately inform Human Resources if you are contacted in any manner by any former employer regarding your work for Amgen and/or any non-competition agreements, agreements that relate to the solicitation of employees or customers, or any other restrictive agreements you entered into in connection with any Prior Employers. 

CERTIFICATION 
    
  I understand that the above list is only a summary and does not purport to include all of my continuing obligations to the Company. By signing below I certify that I have and will continue to comply with the above instructions and policies. 
    
  I hereby agree that the Company may, at its sole option and discretion contact my Prior Employer(s) to determine whether any Restrictive Agreements exist and, if so, their applicable terms. I acknowledge that the Company may revoke its offer or terminate my employment if it determines in its reasonable business judgment that I have failed to disclose or am otherwise subject to an enforceable Restrictive Agreement or my failure to abide by the certifications contained herein. 
    
  Nothing in this Letter and Certification is intended to alter, or shall have any impact on, my status as an at-will employee of the Company. In addition to its right to terminate my employment, the Company shall have the right to suspend me from work without pay during its investigation into (1) the existence and/or enforceability of any restrictions on my ability to perform work for the Company should I fail to disclose a Restrictive Agreement, or (2) the failure to abide by the certifications contained herein. 
    
  I agree:                         
    
  /s/ Lori A. Johnston 
  Signature of Staff Member                                 
    
  Lori A. Johnston 
  Print Name of Staff Member                                 
    
  XXXX 
  Last 4 Digits of Social Security Number (For Identification Purposes) 
  Last 4 Digits of Government ID (If No Social Security Number) 
  10/28/2016 
  Date                 
  
   6 

AMGEN SIGN-ON/RETENTION BONUS AGREEMENT 
  FOR NEW HIRE STAFF MEMBERS 

I, Lori A. Johnston, agree to accept my sign-on/retention bonus payment ( Bonus ) from Amgen on the following terms. 
    
           1. 
    The amount of the Bonus is described in the offer letter (as may be amended) that was provided separately to me. 
       
           2. 
    The Bonus will generally be paid to me as follows: 

Within thirty (30) days following my start date with Amgen, I will be paid   $2,000,000.00   as a Bonus. This amount will be earned only after I complete two years of employment with Amgen. The Bonus is intended to facilitate my acceptance of employment with Amgen and my continued employment with Amgen for a period of at least two years. Amgen is providing me with the Bonus with the expectation that I will not resign my employment during this two-year period. 
       
           3. 
    I understand and agree that I am an at-will employee and that I am free to resign at any time and Amgen is free to terminate my employment, with or without cause, at any time. Nevertheless, I understand that if I resign my employment with Amgen or if Amgen terminates my employment for Cause as defined in my Offer Letter before I complete two years of employment, I have not earned any portion of the Bonus amount. Therefore, I agree to repay Amgen for the gross amount of my Bonus advance if I resign my employment for any reason or if Amgen terminates my employment for Cause within 24 months from my hire date at Amgen. I also agree that in the event of such a resignation, the amount to be repaid shall be due in full and payable by me immediately in cash (i.e., by check, wire transfer, or similar immediate payment) without further notice or demand by Amgen. 
       
           4. 
    Generally, a sign-on/retention bonus is considered ordinary wage income to the recipient. I understand that Amgen will report to appropriate federal and state taxing authorities all income that Amgen considers to be subject to taxation and will withhold appropriate taxes in accordance with federal and state regulations. I understand that it is my obligation to declare all income and pay all taxes owed on such income, if any. I also understand that this Bonus payment is not considered eligible earnings for annual incentive (bonus) purposes. 
       
           5. 
    I understand that this agreement shall be governed by the law of the State of California. 
       
           6. 
    Nothing in this Agreement will be construed as an employment contract or to guarantee me employment at Amgen for any fixed term. I understand that my employment at Amgen is at will. 
       
           7. 
    The provisions of this agreement are severable. If any part is found to be unenforceable, all other provisions shall remain fully valid and enforceable. 

7 

I agree:                            Amgen Inc.: 
                               
  /s/ Lori A. Johnston                            /s/Gregory Comeaux 
  Signature of Staff Member                               Signature of Authorized Representative 
    
  Lori A. Johnston                            Executive Director, Compensation   Benefits 
  Print Name of Staff Member                    Title of Representative 
    
  XXX                                    10/25/2016 
  Last 4 Digits of Social Security Number            Date 
  (For Identification Purposes) 
  Last 4 Digits of Government ID  
  (If No Social Security Number) 
  10/28/2016 
  Date 
  
   8 

AMGEN RELOCATION AGREEMENT 
  FOR NEW HIRE STAFF MEMBERS 
    
  I, Lori A. Johnston, agree to accept certain relocation benefits from Amgen on the following terms. 
    
           1. 
    The relocation benefits to be provided to me are outlined in the Amgen Relocation Policy that applies to staff members at my Global Career Framework ( GCF ) level.  
       
           2. 
    I will obtain relocation benefits from Amgen by following the procedures outlined in the Amgen Relocation Policy that applies to staff members at my GCF level. 
       
           3. 
    I understand that I may obtain an estimate of my relocation costs from Amgen/Amgen s third-party relocation vendor and that the actual cost of my relocation may be more or less than the estimate I am provided. I further understand that I can obtain detailed information about the actual services and costs being incurred during my relocation by contacting Amgen or Amgen s third-party relocation vendor. 
       
           4. 
    The relocation benefits are to facilitate my move as a result of my decision to accept an offer of employment with Amgen. I acknowledge that the cost of these benefits is not required to be reimbursed to me as a matter of law under California Labor Code section 2802 or any similar statute. 
       
           5. 
    Amgen provides the relocation benefits with the expectation that I will not in the short term resign my employment. While, as an at-will employee, I am free to resign at any time, I agree to reimburse Amgen for the gross amount of the cost of the relocation benefits (according to the schedule below) if I resign my employment for any reason within 730 days of my start date with Amgen. Upon my resignation, the amount to be reimbursed shall be immediately due and payable by me without further notice or demand. The schedule for reimbursement is as follows: 

6. 
    I understand that Amgen will report to federal and state taxing agencies all income that Amgen considers to be subject to taxation. I understand that it is my obligation to declare all income and pay all taxes owed on such income, if any. 
       
           7. 
    In the event that I fail to make a reimbursement required by this agreement and Amgen initiates proceedings to recover such reimbursement, the prevailing party in such a suit shall be awarded its reasonable costs and attorney s fees. 
       
           8. 
    I understand that this agreement shall be governed by the law of the State of California. 
       
           9. 
    Nothing in this agreement will be construed as an employment contract or to guarantee me employment at Amgen for any fixed term. I understand that my employment at Amgen is at will. Nor does this agreement guarantee me reimbursement of any particular relocation expenses. I understand that reimbursement is governed by the Amgen Relocation Policy and that I must comply with the procedures in that policy. 
       
           10. 
    The provisions of this agreement are severable. If any part is found to be unenforceable, all other provisions shall remain fully valid and enforceable. 

9 

I agree:                            Amgen Inc.: 
                               
  /s/ Lori A. Johnston                            /s/ Gregory Comeaux 
  Signature of Staff Member                            Signature of Authorized Representative 
    
  Lori A. Johnston                            Executive Director, Compensation   Benefits 
  Print Name of Staff Member                    Title of Representative 
    
  XXXX                                    10/25/2016 
  Last 4 Digits of Social Security Number            Date 
  (For Identification Purposes) 
  Last 4 Digits of Government ID  
  (If No Social Security Number) 
  10/28/2016 
  Date 
  
   10 

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.32>
 6
 amgn-ex1032_20161231x10k.htm
 AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO COLLABORATION AND LICENSE AGREEMENT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.32 

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
  
  November 14, 2016 
    
  Via facsimile and overnight courier 
    
  UCB Celltech  
  (as successor in interest to Celltech R D Limited) 
  208 Bath Road 
  Slough SL1 3WE 
  Berkshire, England 
  Attention: Company Secretary 
    
           Re: 
    Amendment No. 2 to Collaboration and Licence Agreement Between Amgen Inc. and Celltech R D Limited 
     Amgen Ref. No. 200203470 
    
  To Whom It May Concern: 
    
  Celltech R D Limited (   UCB   ) and Amgen Inc. (   Amgen   ) entered into the captioned Agreement effective May 10, 2002, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to the Agreement effective June 9, 2003 (the    Agreement   ).  The Parties, by entering into this letter agreement (this    Amendment   ), agree that the Agreement is hereby amended and supplemented as set forth below and that the Amendment shall have an effective date of November 14, 2016 (the    Amendment Effective Date   ).  Unless specified herein, each capitalized term shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Agreement. 
    
           1. 
    The term    Amgen Initial Countries    in Article 1 of the Agreement is hereby amended and restated as follows: 
       
   Amgen Initial Countries    means the United States, Canada, Mexico, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. 
    
           2. 
    The term    Celltech Initial Countries    in Article 1 of the Agreement is hereby amended and restated as follows: 
       
   Celltech Initial Countries    means the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Norway, Switzerland and any country in addition to those named which, as of the date of first Regulatory Approval for Commercialisation of an Antibody Product, is a member state of the European Union. 
    
           3. 
    Article 1 of the Agreement is hereby amended by including the following definition after    Research Plan    and before    Secondary Detail   : 
       
     Romosozumab    means the Antibody Product known as romosozumab. 
    
           4. 
    Article 5.12(b) of the Agreement is hereby amended and restated as follows: 
       
  b. The Joint Commercialisation Committee shall review on a quarterly basis (including a review of the fourth quarter, reasonably promptly after its end) the Commercialisation Expenses actually incurred against the consolidated budget prepared by the Territory Commercial Lead (as described in Article 5.12(a)) for such expenses in the applicable calendar year and will consider for approval any appropriate changes to such budget.  For clarity, such budget shall provide for all expenses to be incurred by or on behalf of the Territory Commercial Lead in the countries in such Party s Lead Territory, whether expected to be incurred by the Territory Commercial Lead, by the other Party or by any Third Parties. If in the course of the quarterly review (or otherwise), either Party should determine for any Antibody Product that the actual amounts incurred for such calendar year are, in the aggregate, likely to be, or that the actual amounts incurred for such calendar year are, greater than [*] of the aggregate amount budgeted     by the Territory Commercial Lead for such calendar year, the Joint Commercialisation Committee shall review the reasons for such potential overrun and determine whether such overrun is acceptable.  To the extent the Joint Commercialisation Committee determines that such overrun is acceptable, the Joint Commercialisation Committee shall approve a revised Commercialisation budget to include such overrun.  To the extent the Joint Commercialisation Committee determines that such overrun is not acceptable, the Joint Commercialisation Committee shall initiate such actions as required to remedy the situation. To the extent the Joint Commercialisation Committee is unable to agree on any matter or remediation relating to said overrun (and in any event if the Joint Commercialisation Committee does not determine that said overrun is acceptable), [*]. 
  
   1 

5. 
    The Parties agree that Article 5 of the Agreement is hereby amended by including the following as Article 5.18: 
       
     5.18        Romosozumab Commercialisation Principles  .  This Article 5.18 shall apply notwithstanding any other term of this Agreement (including without limitation Articles 5.7, 5.9 and 5.12): 
    
  a. Each Party, including when acting as Territorial Commercial Lead, shall Commercialise Romosozumab and carry out its activities contemplated by this Agreement subject to, and in accordance with, and otherwise comply with such commercialisation principles mutually agreed from time to time by the Parties in writing as expressly constituting such for purposes of this Article 5.18 (the  Commercialisation   Principles   ), and neither Party shall take any action with respect to Romosozumab that conflicts with the Commercialisation Principles. The Commercialisation Plan for Romosozumab, to be developed and approved by the Joint Commercialisation Committee as provided for in Article 5.8 of this Agreement, and each Country Plan for Romosozumab, to be developed by the relevant Territorial Commercial Lead as provided for in Article 5.9 of this Agreement, shall be developed in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Commercialisation Principles, and shall not conflict with the Commercialisation Principles unless mutually agreed in writing by the Parties. The Commercialisation Principles shall not be modified in any respect by either Party, the Joint Commercialisation Committee or any other governance body formed pursuant to the Agreement without the express written consent of the Parties.  The Parties hereby agree that (i) Articles 5.2 and 5.11(a) through 5.11(d) shall not apply with respect to Romosozumab; and (ii) Articles 5.11(e) through 5.11(h) shall continue to apply in full force and effect with respect to Romosozumab,   provided   that (x) references therein and otherwise in the Agreement to Co-Detailer instead shall be deemed to refer to the Party that is not the Territorial Commercial Lead in the country in question; (y) the Parties shall Commercialise Romosozumab under a single Product Trademark in accordance with the applicable Country Plan; and (z) with respect to Article 5.11(h), as between the Parties, only the Territory Commercial Lead s corporate name and logo shall appear on Promotional Materials for Romosozumab in respect of such country, except in the case of the Celltech Initial Countries (after giving effect to this Amendment) and China (to the extent there is co-detailing in any such country). 
    
  b. For the avoidance of doubt, any dispute between the Parties with respect to the Commercialisation Principles shall be addressed according to Article 15 of the Collaboration Agreement. If the dispute remains unresolved after the process set forth in Article 15, then either Party may at any time thereafter pursue any legal or equitable remedy available to it. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article 5.18(b), either Party shall be entitled at all times and without delay to seek equitable relief.  
    
  Each of Amgen and UCB represent and warrant that it has the right to enter into this Amendment and that the terms of this Amendment are not inconsistent with other contractual obligations (express or implied) that it may separately have. No amendment or supplement to, or modification of, any provision of this Amendment shall be valid or effective unless made in writing and signed by a duly authorized officer of each Party. This Amendment shall be governed by and interpreted in all respects under the substantive laws of the State of New York, as applied to agreements executed and performed entirely in the State of New York by residents of the State of New York, without regard to the United Nations Convention on International Contracts for the Sale of Goods. 
    
  Except as amended and supplemented hereby, all of the terms and conditions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. The Agreement, as amended and supplemented pursuant to this Amendment, constitutes the entire understanding of the Parties and each reference to  Agreement  contained in the Collaboration and Licence Agreement shall, from and after the date of the Amendment Effective Date, refer to the Collaboration and Licence Agreement as amended and supplemented hereby. This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. If this Amendment is acceptable to you, please confirm by signing and returning a copy to Amgen. 

2 

Yours sincerely, 
    
  AMGEN INC. 

/s/ Anthony C. Hooper 
  By: Anthony C. Hooper 
  Title: EVP, Global Commercial Operations 

/s/ David W. Meline 
  By: David W. Meline 
  Title: EVP, Chief Financial Officer 

3 

Acknowledged and agreed: 
    
  UCB CELLTECH 

/s/ Mark Glyn Hardy 
  By: Mark Glyn Hardy 
  Title: Company Secretary 
  
   4 

</EX-10.32>

<EX-21>
 7
 amgn-ex21_20161231x10k.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21 

AMGEN INC. 
    
  The following is a list of subsidiaries of the Company as of December 31, 2016, omitting some subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.     

STATE OR OTHER 
      SUBSIDIARY 
      
    JURISDICTION OF 
      (Name under which 
      
    INCORPORATION 
      subsidiary does business) 
      
    OR ORGANIZATION 

Alantos Pharmaceuticals Holding, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Amgen (Europe) GmbH 
      
    Switzerland 
      Amgen Fremont Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Amgen Global Finance B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Amgen Holding No. 1 
      
    Bermuda 
      Amgen Manufacturing, Limited 
      
    Bermuda 
      Amgen Ilac Ticaret Limited Sirketi 
      
    Turkey 
      Amgen Research (Munich) GmbH 
      
    Germany 
      Amgen Rockville, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Amgen SF, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Amgen Technology (Ireland) 
      
    Ireland 
      Amgen Technology, Limited 
      
    Bermuda 
      Amgen USA Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Amgen Worldwide Holdings B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      ATL Holdings Limited 
      
    Bermuda 
      ATL Holdings II Limited 
      
    Bermuda 
      BioVex, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Immunex Corporation 
      
    Washington 
      Immunex Rhode Island Corporation 
      
    Delaware 
      Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Onyx Therapeutics, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 

1 

</EX-21>

<EX-31>
 8
 amgn-ex31_20161231x10k.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31 

CERTIFICATIONS 
  I, Robert A. Bradway, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Amgen Inc., certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Amgen Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this annual report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this annual report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
                    Date: February 14, 2017 
    /s/ ROBERT A. BRADWAY 
        
    Robert A. Bradway 
        
    Chairman of the Board, 
        
    Chief Executive Officer and President 

1 

CERTIFICATIONS 
  I, David W. Meline, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Amgen Inc., certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Amgen Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this annual report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this annual report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
                    Date: February 14, 2017 
    /s/ DAVID W. MELINE 
        
    David W. Meline 
        
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

2 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 9
 amgn-ex32_20161231x10k.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32 

Certification of Chief Executive Officer 
  Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as created by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officer of Amgen Inc. (the  Company ) hereby certifies that: 
           (i) 
    the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the period ended December 31, 2016 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 
              (ii) 
    information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
                      Dated: 
    February 14, 2017 
    /s/ Robert A. Bradway 

Robert A. Bradway 

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( Section 906 ), or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Amgen Inc. and will be retained by Amgen Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 
  
   1 

Certification of Chief Financial Officer 
  Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as created by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officer of Amgen Inc. (the  Company ) hereby certifies that: 
           (i) 
    the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the period ended December 31, 2016 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 
              (ii) 
    information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
                      Dated: 
    February 14, 2017 
    /s/ DAVID W. MELINE 

David W. Meline 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( Section 906 ), or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Amgen Inc. and will be retained by Amgen Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 
  
   2 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 amgn-20161231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 amgn-20161231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 amgn-20161231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 amgn-20161231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 amgn-20161231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 amgn-20161231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

