<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090227_10-K_edgar_data_78003_0001193125-09-040568_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3161802</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>589386</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>116081</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2009988</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>220</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-040568.hdr.sgml : 20090227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090227125938
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-040568
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		18
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PFIZER INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000078003
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				135315170
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03619
		FILM NUMBER:		09641159

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		235 E 42ND ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2125732323

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		235 E 42ND ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PFIZER CHARLES & CO INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19710908

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FKMqvxc21EoQ4saVTUXfax+S07kS2+CxuU1RieTet3Fl6O8TxkLN5nXQHJnPE5yk
 4y+PJYHwwX5XqLVvxFXh8A==

 0001193125-09-040568.txt : 20090227

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549              
   FORM 10-K                  (Mark One)    
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008        
     For the transition period from             to             
       Commission file number 1-3619                  PFIZER INC.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)                  
     (212) 573-2323        (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)                  Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of each class    
      
     Name of each exchange           on which registered         
 
    Common Stock, $.05 par value   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:        None                 Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes         No     
     Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting
company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.       

Large accelerated filer       
     
  Accelerated filer       
     
  Non-accelerated filer       
     
  Smaller reporting company        
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes         No           The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as of the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second
fiscal quarter, June 29, 2008, was approximately $116 billion. The registrant has no non-voting common stock.      The number of shares
outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common stock as of February 13, 2009 was 6,745,269,668 shares of common stock, all of one class.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE        

Portions of the 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders   
      
  Parts I, II and IV   
 
    Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders   
      
  Parts I and III   

Table of Contents  

      TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    
 
      PART I     
      
  1   

ITEM 1. BUSINESS     
      
  1   
 
     General    
      
  1   
 
     Pfizer Website    
      
  1   
 
     Business Segments    
      
  2   
 
     Pharmaceutical    
      
  2   
 
     Animal Health    
      
  4   
 
     Research and Development    
      
  5   
 
     International Operations    
      
  6   
 
     Marketing    
      
  7   
 
     Patents and Intellectual Property Rights    
      
  7   
 
     Competition    
      
  8   
 
     Raw Materials    
      
  10   
 
     Government Regulation and Price Constraints    
      
  10   
 
     Environmental Law Compliance    
      
  14   
 
     Tax Matters    
      
  14   
 
     Employees    
      
  14   

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS     
      
  14   
 
      ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS     
      
  20   
 
      ITEM 2. PROPERTIES     
      
  21   
 
      ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     
      
  21   
 
      ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS     
      
  21   
 
      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY     
      
  22   

PART II     
      
  24   

ITEM 
5. MARKET FOR THE COMPANY S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES     
      
  24   
 
      ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     
      
  25   
 
      ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS     
      
  25   
 
      ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK     
      
  25   
 
      ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA     
      
  25   
 
      ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE     
      
  25   
 
      ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES     
      
  25   
 
      ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION     
      
  25   

PART III     
      
  26   

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE     
      
  26   
 
      ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     
      
  26   
 
      ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

26   
 
      ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE     
      
  26   
 
      ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES     
      
  26   

PART IV     
      
  27   

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES     
      
  27   
 
     15(a)(1) Financial Statements    
      
  27   
 
     15(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  27   
 
     15(a)(3) Exhibits    
      
  27   

Table of Contents  

       PART I        

ITEM 1.   
     BUSINESS            General
      Pfizer Inc. (which may be referred to as  Pfizer, the Company, we, us or our ) is a research-based, global pharmaceutical company.
We discover, develop, manufacture and market leading prescription medicines for humans and animals.      The Company was incorporated under the
laws of the State of Delaware on June 2, 1942.      We acquired Esperion Therapeutics, Inc. (Esperion) in February 2004. The acquisition
was accounted for as a purchase. Esperion is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of high density lipoprotein (HDL)-targeted ( good cholesterol ) therapies for the treatment of cardiovascular disease. In the third quarter
of 2008, we sold Esperion. The sale, for nominal consideration, resulted in a loss for tax purposes.      In September 2005, we acquired
Vicuron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of novel anti-infectives. The acquisition was also accounted for as a purchase.      In February 2006, we acquired from sanofi-aventis the worldwide rights to  Exubera  (inhaled insulin therapy) and the insulin product business and facilities located in Frankfurt, Germany, which were previously
jointly owned by the Company and sanofi-aventis. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. In the third quarter of 2007, the Company decided to exit  Exubera  and recorded charges totaling $2.8 billion ($2.1 billion, net of tax).
     In May 2006, we completed the acquisition of Rinat Neurosciences Corp., a biologics company with several new central-nervous-system
product candidates. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.      In December 2006, we completed the acquisition of PowderMed Ltd., a
U.K. company which specializes in the emerging science of DNA-based vaccines for the treatment of influenza and chronic viral diseases. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.         
    We
completed the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business to Johnson   Johnson for $16.6 billion in December 2006. Revenues from our Consumer Healthcare business were $4.0 billion for full-year 2006.      In January 2008, we completed the acquisition of Coley Pharmaceutical Group, Inc., a company whose area of expertise is immunotherapy with specific
emphasis on Toll-like receptor research and development. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.      In January 2008, we completed
the acquisition of CovX Research LLC, a privately-held biotherapeutics company focused on preclinical oncology and metabolic research and the developer of a technology platform. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.      In June 2008, we completed the acquisition of Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc., a biopharmaceutical company whose area of expertise is the treatment of
pulmonary arterial hypertension. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.      In June 2008, we also completed the acquisition of
Serenex, Inc., a privately-held biotechnology company with a Heat Shock Protein 90 development portfolio. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.      On January 26, 2009, we announced that we had entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we will acquire Wyeth in a cash-and-stock transaction valued on that date at $50.19 per share, or a total of
$68 billion. The Company and Wyeth expect the transaction to close at the end of the third quarter or during the fourth quarter of 2009.        
 Pfizer Website       Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website  (www.pfizer.com)  as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).   
       
   1   

Table of Contents  

Throughout this 2008 Form 10-K, we  incorporate by reference  certain information from parts of other documents filed with the SEC, including our
Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (2009 Proxy Statement) and the 2008 Financial Report (2008 Financial Report), which will be contained in Appendix A to our 2009 Proxy Statement. The SEC allows us to disclose important
information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders consists of the 2008 Financial Report and the Corporate and Shareholder Information attached to the 2009 Proxy Statement.
Portions of our 2008 Financial Report are filed as Exhibit 13 to this 2008 Form 10-K. On or about March 13, 2009, our 2008 Financial Report and our 2009 Proxy Statement will be available on our website  (www.pfizer.com) .      Information relating to corporate governance at Pfizer, including our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications; Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
for our Directors; information concerning our Directors; ways to communicate by e-mail with our Directors; Board Committees; Committee charters and the Lead Independent Director Charter; and transactions in Pfizer securities by Directors and
officers, is available on our website  (www.pfizer.com) . We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to Matthew Lepore, Vice President, Chief Counsel-Corporate Governance, Assistant General Counsel,
Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017-5755. Information relating to shareholder services, including our Shareholder Investment Program, book-entry share ownership and direct deposit of dividends, is also available on our website
 (www.pfizer.com) .         Business Segments       We operate in two business segments: Pharmaceutical and Animal Health.      We also operate several other
businesses, including the manufacture of gelatin capsules, contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical   
   
 chemicals. Due to the small size of these businesses, they are grouped into the  Corporate/Other  category of our segment information.   
  Comparative segment revenues and related financial information for 2008, 2007, and 2006 are presented in the tables captioned  Segment  and
 Revenues by Therapeutic Area  in Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements,  Segment,   Geographic and Revenue Information,  in our 2008 Financial Report. The information from those tables in our 2008 Financial Report is
incorporated by reference in this 2008 Form 10-K.      Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of the countries where we operate. In the
U.S., the principal authority regulating our operations is the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA regulates the safety and efficacy of the products we offer and our research quality, manufacturing processes, product promotion, advertising
and product labeling. Similar regulations exist in most other countries, and in many countries the government also regulates our prices. See  Government Regulation and Price Constraints  below.         Pharmaceutical       Our
Pharmaceutical business is the largest pharmaceutical business in the world. Each year, Pfizer pharmaceuticals help over 100 million people throughout the world live longer, healthier lives. With medicines across 11 therapeutic areas, we help
to treat and prevent many of the most common and most challenging conditions of our time. Our products are in Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases; Central Nervous System Disorders; Arthritis and Pain; Infectious and Respiratory Diseases; Urology;
Oncology; Ophthalmology; and Endocrine Disorders.      In 2008, Pharmaceutical revenues of $44.2 billion were slightly lower than 2007
revenues, reflecting the negative impact of the loss of U.S. exclusivity for  Norvasc  (March 2007),  Zyrtec  (Pfizer ceased selling in January 2008) and  Camptosar  (February 2008). Solid overall performance from our broad portfolio
of patent-protected products such as  Lyrica, Sutent  and  Celebrex , as well as the favorable impact of foreign exchange, were able to partially offset these declines. Revenues from this segment  

2   

Table of Contents  

contributed 91.5% of our total revenues in 2008, 91.8% of our total revenues in 2007, and 93.2% in 2006. In 2008, we recorded direct product sales revenues
of more than $2 billion for each of  Lipitor, Lyrica, Celebrex  and  Norvasc,  and more than $1 billion for each of  Viagra, Xalatan/Xalacom, Detrol/Detrol LA, Zyvox  and  Geodon.  A table captioned  Revenues Major
Pharmaceutical Products,  in our 2008 Financial Report, is incorporated by reference.      Our major pharmaceutical products and certain
recently approved products are as follows:       Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases        

Lipitor , for the treatment of elevated LDL-cholesterol levels in the blood, is the most widely-used branded prescription treatment for lowering cholesterol
and the best-selling pharmaceutical product of any kind in the world.          

Norvasc , for treating hypertension, lost exclusivity in the U.S. in March 2007 and has also experienced patent expirations in most other major markets with
the exception of Canada.          

Caduet  is a single pill therapy combining  Lipitor  and  Norvasc  for prevention of cardiovascular events.          

Chantix/Champix  is the first new prescription treatment to aid smoking cessation in nearly a decade. It is currently available in most regions of the world.
For further information on  Chantix/Champix,  including label changes in the U.S., see the discussion under the heading  Pharmaceutical-Selected Product Descriptions, Chantix/Champix  in the Financial Review section of our 2008 Financial
Report, which is incorporated by reference.          Central Nervous System Disorders        

Lyrica  was approved by the FDA in 2005 and was marketed for adjunctive therapy for adults with partial onset epileptic seizures as well as for the treatment
of two of the most common forms of neuropathic pain painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy and post-herpetic neuralgia. In June 2007, Lyrica was approved and subsequently launched in the U.S. for the management of fibromyalgia, one of the most
common chronic pain conditions. This approval      

represented a breakthrough for the more than five million Americans who suffer from this debilitating condition who previously had no FDA-approved treatment.
 Lyrica  is also marketed outside the U.S. for neuropathic pain, general anxiety disorder and adjunctive therapy for adults with partial onset epileptic seizures. For further information on  Lyrica , including a possible labeling change in
the U.S., see the discussion under the heading  Pharmaceutical-   Selected Product Descriptions, Lyrica  in the Financial Review section of our 2008 Financial Report, which is incorporated by reference.          

Geodon/Zeldox , a psychotropic agent, is a dopamine and serotonin receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia and acute mania associated
with bipolar disorder. It is available in both an oral capsule and rapid-acting intramuscular formulation.          

Aricept , discovered and developed by Eisai Co., Ltd., is the world s leading medicine to treat symptoms of Alzheimer s disease. We co-promote
 Aricept  with Eisai in the U.S. and several other countries and have an exclusive license to sell this medicine in certain other countries.          Arthritis and Pain        

Celebrex  is for the treatment of arthritis pain and inflammation and acute pain. It also was approved by the FDA in July 2005 and in Europe in February 2007
for the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis, a form of spinal arthritis, and in the U.S. in December 2006, for the treatment of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.          Infectious and Respiratory Diseases        

Vfend  is a treatment that can be administered orally or intravenously for certain serious and potentially fatal fungal infections, for the treatment of
esophageal candidiasis and for the treatment of certain blood stream infections in non-neutropenic patients (those without low white blood cell counts). It is also available in an oral-suspension formulation suitable for patients unable to swallow
the tablet form.          

Eraxis  is an injectable, antifungal antibiotic used to treat serious candida (yeast) infections in the  

3   

Table of Contents  

blood, stomach or esophagus.  Eraxis  became available to patients in the U.S. in 2006 and in Europe in 2008.          

Zyvox  is for the treatment of hospital-acquired pneumonia and complicated skin infections due to drug-resistant bacteria known as Methicillan-Resistant
Staphylococcus Aureus.  Zyvox  is available in intravenous, tablet and oral-suspension formulations.          

Selzentry/Celsentri  is the first in a new class of oral HIV medicines in more than a decade known as CCR5 antagonists. CCR5 antagonists work by blocking the
CCR5 co-receptor, the virus  predominant entry route into T-cells.  Selzentry/Celsentri  stops the R5 virus on the outside surface of the cells before it enters, rather than fighting the virus inside, as do all other classes of oral HIV
medicines.  Selzentry/Celsentri  was approved in the U.S. and in Europe in 2007 and in Japan in 2008 and is indicated for combination anti- retroviral treatment of treatment-experienced adults infected with only CCR5-tropic HIV-1 detectable,
who have evidence of viral replication and have HIV-1 strains resistant to multiple anti-retroviral agents.          Urology    

Viagra  remains the leading treatment for erectile dysfunction (ED) and one of the world s most recognized pharmaceutical brands.

Detrol  is the world s leading product for the treatment of overactive bladder.  Detrol LA  is an extended-release formulation of this medicine,
taken once a day.          

Toviaz  is Pfizer s newest offering for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency and frequency. It is
available in two once-daily doses, providing physicians and patients with the ability to optimize treatment through flexible dosing.  Toviaz  was approved in Europe in April 2007 and in the U.S. in October 2008. It is marketed in 15 European
countries and is expected to launch in the U.S. in the first half of 2009.            
     Oncology        

Camptosar , which is marketed under the name  Campto  in many countries outside the U.S., is indicated as first-line therapy for metastatic colorectal
cancer in combination with 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin. The U.S. basic patent for  Camptosar  expired in February 2008.          

Sutent  is an oral multi-kinase inhibitor that combines anti-angiogenic and anti-tumor activity to inhibit the blood supply to tumors.  Sutent  was
approved by the FDA and launched in the U.S. in January 2006 for advanced renal cell carcinoma, including metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC), and gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) after disease progression on or intolerance to imatinib
mesylate. In January 2007,  Sutent  received full marketing authorization and extension of the indication to first-line treatment of advanced and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma, as well as approval as a second-line treatment of GIST, in the
EU. In Japan, it was approved in April 2008 for the treatment of GIST, after failure of imatinib treatment due to resistance, and for renal cell carcinoma not indicated for curative resection and mRCC.          Ophthalmology        

Xalatan/Xalacom  is the world s leading branded agent to reduce elevated eye pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
 Xalacom , a fixed combination of  Xalatan  and the beta blocker timolol, is currently available outside the U.S.          Endocrine
Disorders        

Genotropin  is the world s leading human growth hormone. It is prescribed for children for the treatments of short stature with growth hormone
deficiency, Prader-Willi Syndrome, Turner Syndrome, Small for Gestational Age Syndrome, Idiopathic Short Stature (in the U.S. only) and Chronic Renal Insufficiency (outside the U.S.) as well as for adults with growth hormone deficiency.
           Animal Health       Our Animal Health business is one of the largest in the world. We discover, develop and sell products  

4   

Table of Contents  

for the prevention and treatment of diseases in livestock and companion animals. In 2008, Animal Health revenues increased 7%, to $2.8 billion, primarily due
to the continued performance of key products such as  Revolution/Stronghold, Draxxin , and other products, and the continued success of important new products such as  Convenia  (single dose antibiotic for dogs and cats),  Cerenia
 (prevention and treatment of emesis for dogs), and  Improvac  (boar taint vaccine for pigs).      Among the products we market are
parasiticides, anti-inflammatories, antibiotics, vaccines, antiemetics, and anti-obesity agents, including the products discussed above and below.      Parasiticides constitute the largest segment of the animal health market for companion animals, consisting mainly of medicines for the control of parasites such as fleas and heartworm. Our product,  Revolution/Stronghold,  is our
largest-selling parasiticide for dogs and cats.       Rimadyl  relieves pain and inflammation associated with canine osteoarthritis and
soft tissue orthopedic surgery.  Rimadyl  is the only arthritis pain medication prescribed by veterinarians available in chewable tablets, regular caplets and in an injectable formulation.       Clavamox/Synulox  is an antibiotic for skin and soft tissue infections in dogs and cats.      Our vaccine portfolio for livestock is extensive and includes  RespiSureOne/StellamuneOne,  a single-dose vaccine used to prevent pneumonia in
swine, and  Bovi-Shield Gold,  a cattle vaccine for reproductive and respiratory protection. In 2008,  Bovi-Shield Gold  received approvals for subcutaneous administration, for use as a single dose vaccine for the prevention of bovine
respiratory syncytial virus infection, and for the prevention of persistent infection in calves.       Dectomax  injectable and pour-on
formulations remove and control internal and external parasites in beef cattle.       Draxxin  is an effective and convenient single dose
antibiotic used to treat infections in cattle and swine. In 2008,  Draxxin  received additional indications for the treatment of pink eye (infectious   
   
 bovine Keratoconjunctivitis) caused by Moraxella bovis and foot rot (caused by Fusobacterium necrophorum and Porphyromonas levii) in cattle, and the addition
of Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae to the list of target pathogens for the respiratory disease indication in pigs.       Excede  is an effective
and convenient single-dose antibiotic used to treat infections in dairy cows, beef cattle and swine. In 2008,  Excede  received an additional indication for the treatment of foot rot in cattle.         Research and Development       Innovation by our research and development operations is very important to the Company s success. Our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. This goal has been
supported by our substantial research and development investments. We spent $7.9 billion in 2008, $8.1 billion in 2007 and $7.6 billion in 2006 on research and development in support of Pfizer s Pharmaceutical and Animal Health businesses.
     We conduct research internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology
companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. We also seek out promising compounds and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery or development processes or projects, as well as our product
lines, through acquisition, licensing or other arrangements.      Drug discovery and development is time consuming, expensive and
unpredictable. On average, only one out of many thousands of chemical compounds discovered by researchers proves to be both medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. The process from early discovery to development to
regulatory approval can take more than ten years. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process. Candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research.      We believe that our investments in research have been rewarded by the number of pharmaceutical compounds we have in all stages of development. As of
year-end 2008, we had 106 projects in  

5   

Table of Contents  

development, including 84 new molecular entities and 22 product-line extensions. In addition, we had more than 170 projects in discovery research. In recent
years, our discovery scientists have delivered over 125 new chemical compounds to early development. Most recently, we increased our Phase III portfolio by approximately 60% from 16 to 26 programs at year-end. While these new candidates may or may
not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering development are the foundation for future products.      In addition
to discovering and developing new products, our research operations add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness and by discovering new uses for them.      Information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth under the
heading  Product Developments  in our 2008 Financial Report. That information is incorporated by reference.      Pfizer provides a
detailed update of its pipeline on a twice-yearly basis, which is available at  www.pfizer.com/pipeline  for tracking development compounds across Pfizer s robust pipeline.      Our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to research and development. In addition, the consolidation that has occurred in our industry
has created companies with substantial research and development resources. We also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. The extent to which our competitors are successful in their research
could result in erosion of the sales of our products and unanticipated product obsolescence.         International Operations  
     We have significant operations outside the United States. They are managed through the same business segments as our U.S.
operations Pharmaceutical and Animal Health.      Revenues from operations outside the U.S. of $27.9 billion accounted for 57.7% of our
total revenues in 2008. Revenues exceeded $500 million in each of 14 countries outside the U.S. in 2008. The U.S. was the only country to contribute more than   
   
 10% of our total revenues, comprising 42.3% of total revenues in 2008, 47.8% of total revenues in 2007 and 53.4% of total revenues in 2006. Japan is our
second-largest national market, with 7.7% of our total revenues in 2008, 7.0% in 2007 and 6.7% in 2006.      For a geographic breakdown of
revenues and changes in revenues, see the table captioned  Geographic  in Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements,  Segment, Geographic and Revenue Information,  in our 2008 Financial Report and the table captioned  Change in
Revenues by Segment and   Geographic Area  in our 2008 Financial Report. Those tables are incorporated by reference.      Our
international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive
government actions. Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws on pricing, reimbursement and access to our products.      See  Government Regulation and Price Constraints  below for a discussion of these matters.      Depending
on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. In 2008, both revenues and net income were favorably impacted by foreign
exchange, as foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar increased our revenues and net income in many countries. While we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we
attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments. See the discussion under Note 9-D to our consolidated financial statements,  Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging
Activities  in our 2008 Financial Report. That discussion is incorporated by reference. Related information about valuation and risks associated with such financial instruments in parts E and F of that Note is also incorporated by reference.

6   

Table of Contents  

       Marketing       In our global Pharmaceutical business, we promote our products to healthcare providers
and patients. Through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit
Managers (PBMs), Managed Care Organizations (MCOs), employers and government agencies. We also market directly to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer advertising that communicates the approved uses, benefits, and risks of our products
while continuing to motivate people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. In addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs.
     Our operations include several pharmaceutical sales organizations. Our structure aligns the sales, marketing, and medical functions to
work closely in tandem along the same therapeutic groups of products, reinforcing common coordination, focus, and accountability across the organizations.      Our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies. We seek to gain access to health authority,
PBM and MCO formularies (lists of recommended, approved, and/or reimbursed medicines and other products). We also work with MCOs, PBMs, employers and other appropriate healthcare providers to assist them with disease management, patient education
and other tools that help their medical treatment routines.      Our Animal Health business also uses its own sales organization to promote its
products. Its advertising and promotion are generally targeted to health professionals, directly and through veterinary journals. Animal health products are sold through veterinarians, distributors and retail outlets as well as directly to users.
Where appropriate, these products are also marketed through print and television advertising.      During 2008, sales to our three largest
Pharmaceutical wholesalers were as follows:         

McKesson, Inc. 16% of our total revenues;          

Cardinal Health, Inc. 10% of our total revenues; and          

AmerisourceBergen Corporation 10% of our total revenues.         Sales to these wholesalers were concentrated in the Pharmaceutical segment. Apart from these instances, neither of our business segments is dependent on any one customer or group of related customers.         Patents and Intellectual Property Rights       Our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries for
as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms.      We own or license a number of U.S. and foreign patents. These patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in
manufacturing.      Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal
term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of
legal remedies in the country.      In the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the U.S.
and most other countries. Based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by others, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which
the U.S. basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period), are those for the drugs set forth in the table below.   
       
   7   

Table of Contents  

The table also includes patent expiration information relating to certain recently approved drugs.       
    In some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to
particular forms or compositions of the drug or to methods of manufacturing or using the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. However, in some cases, such patents may not protect the Company s drug from generic
competition after the expiration of the basic patent.      The U.S. basic patent for  Camptosar  expired in February 2008.       Aricept  is patented by Eisai Co., Ltd. We co-promote  Aricept  with Eisai in the U.S. and several other countries and have an exclusive
license to sell the drug in certain other countries.      In addition to our U.S. basic product patent for  Lipitor,  which (including the
pediatric exclusivity period) expires in March 2010, we have a patent covering specifically the enantiomeric form of the drug, which (including the pediatric exclusivity period) expires in June 2011. See Note 19 to our consolidated financial
statements,  Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,  in our 2008 Financial Report regarding pending legal challenges to our  Lipitor  patents in the U.S.      Companies have filed applications with the FDA seeking approval of products that we believe infringe our patents covering, among other products,  Lipitor, Celebrex  and  Detrol/Detrol LA . In addition, a

company has filed an application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of  Aricept,  which is patented by Eisai Co., Ltd.
     We also have other patent rights covering additional products that have lesser revenues than most of the products set forth in the table
above.      The expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in
significant competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in sales of that product in a very short period. In some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits
from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and
conversion of the active ingredient to over-the-counter products.      One of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside
the U.S. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. Under international and U.S. free trade agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights has been improving. The World Trade
Organization Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property (WTO-TRIPs) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005 with an extension until
2016 for least-developed nations. A number of countries have made improvements. We have experienced significant growth in our businesses in some of those nations, and our continued business expansion in other participant countries depends to a large
degree on further patent protection improvement.         Competition       Our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. Many of our human pharmaceutical products face competition in
the form of branded drugs or generic drugs that treat similar diseases or indications. The principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. Though the means of competition vary among product  

8   

Table of Contents  

categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses.      Our Pharmaceutical business is the largest in the world. Our competitors include other worldwide research-based drug companies, smaller research
companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug manufacturers. We compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat similar diseases or indications as our major products.      Such competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet
medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. Our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in research and development over the past decade, resulting in one of the strongest product pipelines in the
industry. Our investment in research does not stop with a drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat as well as potentially new conditions. We protect the health and
wellbeing of patients by ensuring that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. We also continue to enhance the organizational
effectiveness of all of our pharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our salespeople s efforts to launch and promote our products to our customers.      Operating conditions have become more challenging under the mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. We
recently have taken and continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. For instance, we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to
U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising, interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals and medical education grants. We also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance
fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions.      While our Animal Health business is one of the largest
in the world, many other companies offer competitive products. Altogether, there are hundreds   
   
 of producers of animal health products throughout the world. The principal methods of competition vary somewhat depending on the particular product. They
include product innovation, quality, price, service and effective promotion to veterinary professionals and consumers.       Managed Care Organizations  
     The growth of MCOs in the U.S. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. Approximately
249 million people in the U.S. now participate in some version of managed care. Because of the size of the patient population covered by MCOs, the marketing of prescription drugs to them and the PBMs that serve many of those organizations
continues to grow in importance.      MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance
organizations, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. The purchasing power of MCOs has increased in recent years due to the growing numbers of patients enrolled in MCOs. At the same time, those organizations have
been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. This consolidation enhances their purchasing strength and importance to us.      The
growth of MCOs has increased pressure on drug prices. One objective of MCOs is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. They typically use formularies, volume purchases and long-term contracts to negotiate discounts from
pharmaceutical providers. They use their purchasing power to bargain for lower supplier prices. They also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors  offices and clinics. Hospitalization and
surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. Since the use of certain drugs can prevent the need for hospitalization, professional therapy or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for
certain diseases.      As discussed above in  Marketing , MCOs and PBMs typically develop formularies. Formularies can be based on the
prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines are often favored. The breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary  

9   

Table of Contents  

considerably from one MCO to another and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. MCOs use
a variety of means to encourage patients  use of products listed on their formularies.      Exclusion of a product from a formulary or
other restrictions, such as requiring prior authorizations, can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to have their products included. Where possible, companies
compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects. A lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic
advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on most MCO formularies.      The impact of MCOs on drug prices and volumes has increased as the result of their role in negotiating on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries in connection
with the Medicare out-patient Prescription Drug Benefit, Medicare Part D, that took effect January 1, 2006. MCOs and PBMs negotiate on behalf of the federal government as Prescription Drug Plans (PDPs). We have been generally, although not
universally, successful in having our major products that are used by the senior population included on the formularies of the new Medicare PDPs for 2006, 2007 and 2008.       Generic Products       One of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic
pharmaceutical manufacturers. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period. Several such competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product
patents before their expiry. Generic competitors operate without our large research and development expenses and our costs of conveying medical information about our products to the medical community. In addition, the FDA approval process exempts
generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the   
   
 innovator product. Generic products need only demonstrate a level of availability in the bloodstream equivalent to that of the innovator product. This means
that generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and charge much less.      In
addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity. For example,  Lipitor  began to face competition from generic pravastatin
(Pravachol) and generic simvastatin (Zocor) during 2006.      As noted above, MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often
favor generics over brand-name drugs. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including Medicaid in the U.S. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in some cases require,
pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. In the U.S.,
Pfizer s Greenstone subsidiary sells generic versions of Pfizer s as well as our competitors  pharmaceutical products upon loss of exclusivity, as appropriate.         Raw Materials       Raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased
worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. In general, these materials are available from multiple sources. No serious shortages or delays were encountered in 2008, and none are expected in 2009. The rise in the price of
crude oil has resulted in pricing pressures on raw materials that are derived from petroleum and used in our businesses.         Government Regulation and Price Constraints        In the United States        General.  Pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies in the countries in which they do
business. Of particular importance is the FDA in the U.S. It has jurisdiction over our human pharmaceutical business and administers requirements covering the testing,  

10   

Table of Contents  

safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of our pharmaceutical products. The FDA also regulates
our animal health products, along with the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.      In addition, many
of our activities are subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice.
Individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws.      We are subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these various regulatory bodies (see Note 19 to our consolidated financial
statements,  Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,  in our 2008 Financial Report). Such actions may include product recalls, seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions.      The U.S. Congress and the FDA are considering proposals to change how the FDA assesses  follow-on biological  products. Depending on the
specific provisions, legislative or regulatory changes that would facilitate the approval of such products could have an adverse impact on the Company s business.       Medicare.  In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act) was enacted. Medicare beneficiaries are now eligible to obtain
subsidized prescription drug coverage from a choice of private sector plans. Approximately 90 percent of Medicare beneficiaries now have coverage for prescription medicines with high levels of beneficiary satisfaction and lower-than-expected costs
to the government and to beneficiaries. It remains difficult to predict the long-term impact of the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act on pharmaceutical companies. The use of pharmaceuticals has increased slightly among some patients as the result of
the expanded access to medicines afforded by coverage under Medicare. However, such expanded utilization has been largely offset by increased pricing pressure and competition   
   
 due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries and by an increase in the use of generic
medicines in this population. Despite the success of Medicare Part D, legislative changes have been proposed to mandate government rebates in Medicare and to allow the federal government to directly negotiate prices with pharmaceutical
manufacturers. It is expected that if legislation were enacted to mandate rebates or provide for direct government negotiation in Medicare Part D, access and reimbursement for our products would be restricted.      Pfizer is committed to helping ensure that all Americans without coverage for prescription medicines have access to Pfizer products. To that end, in
2004, we implemented our Helpful Answers program, an umbrella program that brings together Pfizer s long-standing patient assistance programs with Pfizer Pfriends, a prescription discount card offering savings on Pfizer prescription medicines
for all Americans without prescription drug coverage, regardless of age or income. In addition, in January 2005, we joined Together Rx Access with nine other pharmaceutical companies to offer savings on over 275 medicines to Medicare-ineligible,
uninsured individuals under 65 who fall below certain income thresholds. Pfizer also participates in the Partnership for Prescription Assistance, a single point of access to more than 475 public and private patient assistance programs.   
   Importation of Drugs.  There continue to be legislative proposals to amend U.S. law to allow the importation into the U.S. of prescription drugs
from outside the U.S., which can be sold at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries. In addition to well- documented safety concerns, such importation could impact pharmaceutical prices in the U.S. While the 2003
Medicare Modernization Act maintains a prohibition on such imports, it would allow importation from Canada if the Secretary of HHS certifies that such importation is safe and would result in savings to consumers. Before the 2003 Medicare
Modernization Act, federal law would have permitted importation of medicines into the U.S. from a considerably larger group of developed countries, provided the Secretary of HHS made the same safety and cost-savings certifications.

11   

Table of Contents  

The Secretaries of HHS in both the Clinton and George W. Bush Administrations declined to certify that importation of medicines is safe and saves money. If
the new Secretary of HHS were to certify that importation is safe and saves money, an increase in cross-border trade in medicines subject to foreign price controls in other countries could occur.      In December 2004, HHS and the Department of Commerce issued reports on drug importation and foreign price controls. The HHS report noted that it would be
 extraordinarily difficult to ensure that drugs personally imported by individual consumers  could meet the standards of safety that would support certifying such importation as safe. While the report also concluded that the U.S. could
establish a feasible basis for commercial drug importation, such a change in the law would require  new legal authorities, substantial additional resources and significant restrictions on the types of drugs that could be imported.  The
report also noted that the total savings to be expected from such a commercial importation regime would be relatively small 1% or 2% of total drug spending in the U.S. The Commerce Department report confirmed that the lower prices in many
countries result from governmental price controls, and these price controls adversely affect the amount of funding that is available for the discovery of new drugs. RAND Health, a division of the RAND Corporation, released a study in December 2008
showing that price controls in the U.S. would have a significant negative impact on health in both the U.S. and abroad by deterring the investment that leads to the discovery of new medicines.       Medicaid and Related Matters.  Federal law requires us to give rebates to state Medicaid agencies based on each state s reimbursement of
pharmaceutical products under the Medicaid program. In recent years, various proposals have been offered at the federal and state levels that would bring about major changes in the Medicaid program. In the short term, driven by budget concerns, many
states have implemented restrictive drug lists and state supplemental rebate programs under the Medicaid program. The downturn in state revenues, coupled with an anticipated increase in Medicaid program enrollment due to a declining economy, could
cause rebate payments to rise in 2009. The majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain medicines to Medicaid beneficiaries.   
   
 Restrictions exist for some Pfizer products in certain states. Access in the Medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans
providing coverage for Medicaid recipients contracting for the provision of services in the state. Access may vary by plan. However, there have been legislative proposals to apply government mandated Medicaid rebates to the Medicaid managed care
program.      Effective January 1, 2007, changes to the treatment of authorized generics for purposes of calculating Medicaid rebates
increased the amount of rebates we are required to pay on brand name drug sales after loss of exclusivity and on authorized generic sales to the Medicaid program. In an effort to increase coverage of the low income uninsured, a number of states are
also considering expansion of eligibility for their Medicaid programs that would result in increased exposure to Medicaid rebates, though mostly to populations that currently do not have prescription drug coverage.      Some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid eligible.   
  If many states were to require increased rebate payments in discount programs for the uninsured and link Medicaid beneficiaries  access to our
products to such discount programs, the impact on patients  access to medicines and on Pfizer could be significant.      We also must give
discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements of pharmaceutical products by certain other federal and state agencies and programs. See the discussion regarding rebates in the  Revenues  section of our 2008 Financial Report and in Note 1-G
to our consolidated financial statements,  Significant Accounting Policies, Revenues,  in our 2008 Financial Report, which discussions are incorporated by reference.       Marketing Restrictions . A number of states are considering programs to control pharmaceutical marketing activities that go beyond commitments made related to adhering to the recently revised and strengthened
PhRMA Code for Interactions with Healthcare Professionals. If implemented, such efforts have the potential to limit appropriate communication activities with healthcare professionals prescribing our medications.   
       
   12   

Table of Contents  

Health Reform.  Massachusetts continues to progress in the implementation of its program for health reform. Beginning on January 1, 2009, health
plans participating in the Massachusetts program were required to provide a pharmacy benefit. However, the benefit requirement is expected to have a minimal impact on revenue. Follow-on cost containment legislation passed in Massachusetts at the end
of 2008, including marketing restrictions, may also minimize the potential positive of the coverage requirement.       Outside the United States
      We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In Europe, Canada and some other international markets,
the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. This international patchwork of price regulation
has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products from markets with lower prices. Such trade exploiting price differences between countries can undermine our sales in markets with higher prices.      The approval of new drugs across the European Union (EU) may only be achieved using the Mutual Recognition Procedure/Decentralized Procedure or EU
Commission/European Medicines Agency (EMEA) Central Approval Process, which applies in the 27 EU member states, plus Norway and Iceland, which are full participants in these registration processes. The use of these procedures provides a more rapid
and consistent approval across the member states than was the case when the approval processes were operating independently within each country.      Since the EU does not have jurisdiction over patient reimbursement or pricing matters in its member states, we continue to deal with individual countries on such matters across the region.      During 2004, a comprehensive package of reforms was adopted (called New Medicines Legislation) amending EU law on the regulation of medicinal products in
many areas, including approval procedures and safety reporting. Of particular note, the data exclusivity periods during which innovative companies  regulatory data are protected are required to be harmonized in all member states.

Implementation is complete or underway in most member states, which will facilitate the approval and launch of generic medicines. In addition, these reforms
introduced a clear legal basis for the approval of  biosimilar  or  follow-on biological  products in the EU. Following the effectiveness of these new regulations (in November 2005), the first such products, including a
biosimilar version of  Genotropin , were approved in the EU in 2006. The new regulations also shortened certain approval timelines and introduced fast-track and conditional centralized authorizations. Pfizer s  Sutent  was the first
product to be conditionally approved under the new law in 2006 (although its status subsequently was converted to full authorization).      On
January 26, 2007, the new EU Regulation on Medicines for Pediatric Use became effective. This introduced new obligations on pharmaceutical companies to conduct research on their medicines for children and, subject to various conditions, offered
the possibility of incentives for so doing, including exclusivity extensions. The aim of this regulation is to improve the health of children in the EU through high quality research, stimulating the development of new medicines, creating
infrastructure to enable authorized use and improving the information on medicines for children. A Pediatric Committee (PDCO) was created within the EMEA to provide scientific opinions and input on development plans for medicines for use with
children.      On November 28, 2007, the EU Commission hosted the Transatlantic Administrative Simplification Workshop co-chaired by the
EU Commission and the FDA, in co-operation with the EMEA and the Heads of European Medicines Agencies, to identify opportunities for administrative simplification between the U.S. and the EU in the field of pharmaceutical regulation. These
opportunities included possible harmonization of administrative practices and guidelines, not necessitating changes in regulations, while maintaining or increasing the current levels of Public Health protection. By freeing up resources, this
cooperation will allow the industry to focus more of its resources on developing and supplying medicines to meet the needs of patients.      In
Canada, the federal government controls drug approvals, patented drug prices, the intellectual property regime and reimbursement focused mainly  

13   

Table of Contents  

on Aboriginal Canadians. Health Canada is the government agency that provides regulatory and marketing approval for drugs and therapeutic products. In
October 2006, Health Canada introduced its modernization initiative under the  Blueprint for Renewal: Modernizing Canada s Regulatory System for Health Products and Food  policy framework. The  Blueprint  includes ten objectives among
which are: the Progressive Licensing Framework (PLF) for pharmaceuticals and biologics; adopting a product life-cycle approach to regulations; stronger post-market safety and surveillance systems; increased transparency and openness; emphasis on
special populations (established the Expert Advisory Committee on Pediatrics); strengthening compliance and enforcement; and moving to an integrated health system (closer collaboration and consultation with provinces and territories with respect to
access). In December 2007, the federal government issued its  New Food and Consumer Safety Action Plan  followed by Bill C-51 (April 2008) with proposed legislative amendments to the  Food and Drugs Act.  The Bill is expected to be
re-introduced in 2009 and, if passed, would represent a most significant drug regulatory system reform and major change to Canada s drug approval system. Under the PLF, Health Canada is seeking to establish flexibility in the market
authorization process that will lead to earlier and more appropriate access for patients to promising therapeutic products as well as focus on best patient outcomes. Current regulatory policies and initiatives, such as priority and conditional
approvals, are already providing for internationally competitive approval timelines. As in the EU,  Sutent  was initially approved under the conditional provision. Furthermore, the modernization initiative is proposing the introduction of a
regulatory pathway for  biosimilars  referred to as  Subsequent Entry Biologics  which is similar to the  follow-on biologics  concept in the U.S.      Introductory  non-excessive  prices and price increases are controlled by the federal Patented Medicines Prices Review Board. Canada s
intellectual property regime for drugs, which was recently implemented under the Data Protection regulations and provides for a minimum of eight years of data protection for new chemical entities, has been challenged by recent litigation that has
favored generic manufacturers. The federal government also has jurisdiction over international trade and therefore over the issue of cross-border trade in pharmaceuticals and internet pharmacies.         
       Environmental Law Compliance       Most of our operations are affected by
federal, state and/or local environmental laws. We have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws. We also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain
sites (see Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements,  Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,  in our 2008 Financial Report). As a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2008 for environmental compliance purposes and
for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows:       

environment-related capital expenditures $64 million          

other environment-related expenses $156 million         While we cannot predict with certainty future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive
position.         Tax Matters       The discussion of tax-related matters in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements,  Taxes on Income,  in our 2008 Financial Report, is incorporated by reference.         Employees       In our
innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. As of December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 81,800 people in our operations throughout the world.

I  TEM 1A.   
     RISK FACTORS         The statements in this
Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.       Our disclosure and analysis in this 2008 Form 10-K and in our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set  

14   

Table of Contents  

forth anticipated results based on management s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other
materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have tried, wherever
possible, to identify such statements by using words such as  anticipate,   estimate,   expect,   project,   intend,   plan,   believe,   will,   target ,
 forecast  and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance or business plans or prospects. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and
prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and
financial results.        We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been
prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements.        We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are
advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions
relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.
         
     Government Regulation and Managed Care Trends       U.S.
and foreign governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations. In the U.S., many of our
pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. Such pressures have increased as the result of the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of
Medicare beneficiaries. In addition, if the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business. In addition, MCOs, as well as
Medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. Some states have implemented and other states are considering price controls or patient-access constraints under the Medicaid program and some states are considering
price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid eligible. Other matters also could be the subject of U.S. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our
business, including changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries, restrictions on U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising or limitations
on interactions with healthcare professionals and the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical
products.      The prohibition on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of ED medications by the Medicaid program, which became effective
January 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding prohibition for the Medicare Part D program, which became effective January 1, 2007, has had an adverse effect on our business. Any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement
of other classes of drugs in the future may also have an adverse effect.      We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most
other countries. In Europe and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and  

15   

Table of Contents  

regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. This international patchwork
of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products from markets with lower prices. Such trade exploiting price differences between countries can undermine our sales in markets with higher prices. As a result,
it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue.       Generic Competition       Competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of
our products, or upon the  at-risk  launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that
product in a very short period, which can adversely affect our business. For example, the U.S. basic patent for  Camptosar  expired in February 2008.      Also, the patents covering several of our most important medicines, including  Lipitor, Celebrex, Detrol/Detrol LA,  and  Aricept,  are being challenged by generic manufacturers. In addition, our
patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity. For example,  Lipitor  began to face competition from generic pravastatin (Pravachol) and
generic simvastatin (Zocor) during 2006.       Competitive Products       We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. Products that compete with our drugs, including some of our best-selling
medicines, are launched from time to time. Launches of a number of competitive products have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with
the FDA and with regulatory authorities in other countries.         
     Dependence on Key In-Line and New Products       We recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for each of nine pharmaceutical products in 2008:  Lipitor, Norvasc, Lyrica, Celebrex,
Viagra, Detrol/Detrol LA, Xalatan/Xalacom ,  Geodon  and  Zyvox.  Those products accounted for 60% of our total Pharmaceutical revenues in 2008.  Lipitor  sales in 2008 were approximately $12.4 billion, accounting for 28% of our
total 2008 Pharmaceutical revenues. If the other products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation,
unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence or pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on
our revenues could be significant. For example, U.S. revenues for  Chantix  declined significantly in 2008 compared to 2007 following changes to the  Chantix  U.S. label during 2008. As noted, patents covering several of our best-selling
medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years, and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. In addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing
and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products, including  Selzentry/Celsentri  and  Toviaz .       Specialty Pharmaceuticals
      Specialty pharmaceuticals refer to medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that have smaller patient populations, such
as certain types of cancer, multiple sclerosis and HIV. The growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to
generate significant payer interest in developing cost containment strategies targeted to this sector. While the impact on Pfizer of payers  efforts to control access and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has been limited to date, the
Company s growing portfolio of specialty products, combined with the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world and the deteriorating finances of governments, may lead to a more significant adverse business
impact in the future.   
       
   16   

Table of Contents  

     Research and Development Investment       The discovery and development of new products as well as the development of additional
uses for existing products are very important to the success of the Company. However, balancing current growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. Our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in research and
development for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. This could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues.       Development, Regulatory Approval and Marketing of Products       Risks and uncertainties apply
particularly with respect to product-related, forward-looking statements. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain. There can be no assurance as to whether or
when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products. Decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial
potential of our products. There also are many considerations that can affect marketing of pharmaceutical products around the world. Regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and
efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements.       Research Studies       Decisions about research studies
made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy once the drug receives approval. More detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they
consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for initial approval. We try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. The quality of our
decisions in this area could affect our future results.         
     Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk       58% of our total 2008 revenues was derived from international operations, including 31% from the Europe region and 15% from the Japan/Asia region. These
international-based revenues, as well as our substantial international net assets, expose our revenues and earnings to foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to risk
from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. These risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the section entitled  Financial Risk Management  in our 2008 Financial Report. For additional details,
see Note 9D to our consolidated financial statements,  Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities,  in our 2008 Financial Report. Those sections of our 2008 Financial Report are incorporated by reference.
     Notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty
changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses.       Risks Affecting International Operations
      Our international operations also could be affected by changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade
regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products, as well as by unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. Any of these changes could adversely
affect our business.       Global Economic Conditions       The recent changes in global financial markets have not had, nor do we anticipate they will have, a significant impact on our liquidity. Due to our significant operating cash flow, financial assets, access to capital
markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future. As market conditions change, we will continue to monitor our liquidity
position. However, there can be no assurance that our liquidity or our results of operations will not be affected by recent and possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions.   
       
   17   

Table of Contents  

Moreover, like other businesses, we face the potential effects of the global economic recession. Unprecedented market conditions including illiquid credit
markets, volatile equity markets, dramatic fluctuations in foreign currency rates and economic recession could affect future results.       Product
Manufacturing and Marketing Risks       Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing, including, but not limited to, the
inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand or the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products, could affect future results.       Cost and Expense Control/Unusual Events       Growth in
costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset
realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. Such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction initiatives.       Changes in Laws and Accounting Standards       Our future
results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), competition laws and
environmental laws in the U.S. and other countries.       Terrorist Activity       Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of
insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas.       Legal
Proceedings       We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities,
environmental and tax   
   
 litigations and claims, government investigations, and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business.
Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations in any particular period.      Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our
patents on various products or processes. Although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases
could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations.       Business Development Activities       We plan to continue to enhance our in-line products and product
pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances (see  Regulatory Environment and Pipeline Productivity  under  Our Operating Environment and Response to Key Opportunities and Challenges  in our 2008 Financial Report, which is
incorporated by reference). However, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities and competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities.       Information Technology       We rely to a large extent
upon sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees
and others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we have invested heavily in protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance
that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business.   
       
   18   

Table of Contents  

     Risk Factors Related To The Proposed Wyeth Acquisition         We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.
       The success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from
combining the businesses of Pfizer and Wyeth. However, to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, we must successfully combine the businesses of Pfizer and Wyeth. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits
and cost savings of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.      Pfizer and Wyeth have
operated and, until the completion of the acquisition, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company s ongoing businesses or
inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors, creditors, lessors, clinical trial investigators or managers of its clinical trials
or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of Wyeth and Pfizer during
such transition period.        Failure to complete the acquisition could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results .
       If the acquisition is not completed or our financing for the transaction becomes unavailable, our ongoing business and financial
results may be adversely affected and we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following:       

if our financing for the acquisition becomes unavailable, we will, under circumstances specified in the merger agreement, be required to pay significant liquidated
damages to Wyeth or be compelled to take certain actions to specifically perform our obligation to consummate the acquisition;          

we will be required to pay certain costs relating to the acquisition, whether or not the acquisition is completed;            

matters relating to the acquisition (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could
otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us.         We could also be subject to
litigation related to any failure to complete the acquisition. If the acquisition is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect our business, financial results and stock price.        The required regulatory approvals may not be obtained or may contain materially burdensome conditions that could have an adverse effect on us.     
  Completion of the acquisition is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental approvals, including, without limitation, the expiration or
termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, the issuance by the European Commission of a decision under the EC Merger Regulation declaring the acquisition compatible with the Common Market, the approval of the
acquisition under the China Anti-Monopoly Law and the approval of the acquisition by the antitrust regulators in Canada and Australia. Although Pfizer and Wyeth have agreed in the merger agreement to use their reasonable best efforts to obtain the
requisite governmental approvals, there can be no assurance that these approvals will be obtained. In addition, the governmental authorities from which these approvals are required may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition or
require changes to the terms of the acquisition. Under the terms of the merger agreement, we are required, if necessary to receive antitrust approval, to make divestitures of assets so long as such divestitures would not result in the one-year loss
of net sales (measured by net 2008 sales revenue) in excess of $3 billion. If we become subject to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the acquisition, our business and results of operations may be adversely
affected.        We will take on substantial additional indebtedness to finance the acquisition.        Upon completion of the acquisition, we will increase our indebtedness which will include acquisition debt financing of approximately $22.5 billion and the
assumption of Wyeth s debt  

19   

Table of Contents  

obligations. The financial and other covenants that we agree to in connection with such indebtedness and our increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity
ratio in comparison to that of Pfizer on a recent historical basis could, among other things, reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increase our borrowing costs.        We will incur significant transaction and acquisition-related costs in connection with the acquisition.        We expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with integrating the operations of Wyeth. The substantial majority of non-recurring expenses
resulting from the acquisition will be comprised of transaction costs related to the acquisition, facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment related costs. We will also incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating
integration plans. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of Wyeth s business. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration
of the businesses, should allow us to more than offset incremental transaction and acquisition-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.        The merger may not be accretive and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may harm the market price of our common stock.        We currently anticipate that the merger will be accretive to earnings per share during the calendar year 2011. This expectation is based on preliminary
estimates which may materially change after the completion of the merger. We could also encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the merger. All
of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and cause a decrease in the price of our common stock.         
      Charges to earnings
resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of our common stock following the merger.        In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we will be considered the acquirer for accounting purposes. We will account for the merger using the purchase method of accounting, which will result in charges to our earnings that could
adversely affect the market value of our Common Stock following the completion of the merger. Under the purchase method of accounting, we will allocate the total purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from Wyeth based on their
fair values as of the date of the completion of the merger, and record any excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. For certain tangible and intangible assets, reevaluating their fair values as of the completion date of the
merger will result in our incurring additional depreciation and/or amortization expense that exceed the combined amounts recorded by Pfizer and Wyeth prior to the merger. This increased expense will be recorded by us over the useful lives of the
underlying assets. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets were to become impaired, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of those assets.        Wyeth faces litigation risks and is the subject of various legal proceedings.        If we consummate our acquisition of Wyeth, we will assume Wyeth s risks arising from legal proceedings. Like all pharmaceutical companies in the current legal environment, Wyeth is involved in various patent,
product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims, government investigations, and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of its business. We cannot predict with
certainty the eventual outcome of Wyeth s pending or future legal proceedings and the ultimate outcome of such matters could be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.       

ITEM 1B.   
     UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS         Not
applicable.   
       
   20   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 2.   
     PROPERTIES         Our corporate headquarters
and the headquarters of our Worldwide Pharmaceutical and Animal Health businesses are located in New York City, which includes several owned and leased buildings.      For our Worldwide Pharmaceutical business, we own and lease space around the world for sales and marketing, administrative support and customer service functions. Global initiatives were recently launched to improve
the utilization of all facilities and reduce the cost of our global real estate portfolio.      Our Global Research and Development and
Biotechnology and Bioinnovation Center divisions are headquartered in owned and leased facilities in New London, Connecticut and South San Francisco, California, respectively. We operate both divisions in a number of locations around the world.
Several efforts to more efficiently use our R D facilities have been completed. Our former facility in Ann Arbor, Michigan was closed and is under contract to be sold in 2009, and the disposition of three other excess facilities in Michigan have
been completed.      We have veterinary medicine research and development operations in owned or leased facilities in Kalamazoo and Richland
Township, Michigan, Durham, North Carolina, Lincoln, Nebraska, Thane, India, Sandwich, England, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium and Melbourne, Australia.      Our Global Manufacturing (PGM) division is headquartered in New York, NY and in Peapack, NJ and operates plants in 46 locations around the world that manufacture products for our Pharmaceutical and Animal Health businesses. Major facilities
are located in Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore, and the United States. The Global Manufacturing division also operates distribution facilities in major markets around the world. As part of Pfizer s
Transformation and Plant Network Strategy productivity initiatives, five of these manufacturing facilities are scheduled to be sold or closed within the next several years as Global Manufacturing continues to optimize its plant network.   
  In general, our properties are well maintained, adequate and suitable for their purposes. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements,
 Property,    
   
  Plant and Equipment , in our 2008 Financial Report, which discloses amounts invested in land, buildings and equipment and which is incorporated by
reference. See also the discussion under Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements,  Lease Commitments , in our 2008 Financial Report, which is also incorporated by reference.       

ITEM 3.   
     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         Certain legal
proceedings in which we are involved are discussed in Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements,  Legal Proceedings and Contingencies , in our 2008 Financial Report, which is incorporated by reference.       

ITEM 4.   
     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS         Not applicable.   
       
   21   

Table of Contents  

      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY       The executive officers of the Company are set forth in this table. Each holds the offices indicated until his or her successor is chosen and qualified at
the regular meeting of the Board of Directors to be held immediately following the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Each of the executive officers is a member of the Pfizer Executive Leadership Team.       

Name    
      
   Age   
      
     Position     
 
    Jeffrey B. Kindler   
      
  53  
      
  Chief Executive Officer since July, 2006. He became Chairman of the Board in December 2006. He was Vice Chairman and General Counsel from March 2005 to July 2006, Executive Vice President and
General Counsel from April 2004 to March 2005, and Senior Vice President and General Counsel from January 2002 to April 2004. Prior to joining Pfizer, Mr. Kindler served as Chairman of Boston Market Corporation from 2000 to 2001, and President of
Partner Brands during 2001, both companies owned by McDonald s Corporation. He was Executive Vice President, Corporate Relations and General Counsel of McDonald s Corporation from 1997 to 2001, and from 1996 to 1997 served as that
company s Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Member of the U.S.-Japan Business Council and the Boards of Trustees of Ronald McDonald House Charities and Tufts University.   

Frank A. D Amelio   
      
  51  
      
  Chief Financial Officer since September 2007. Previously, he was Senior Executive Vice President of Integration and Chief Administrative Officer of Alcatel-Lucent from November 2006 until
August 2007. Mr. D Amelio was the Chief Operating Officer of Lucent Technologies from January 2006 until November 2006 and from May 2001 until January 2006, he was Executive Vice President, Administration, and Chief Financial Officer of Lucent
Technologies. He is a Director of Humana, Inc., the Independent College Fund of New Jersey and the JP Morgan Chase National Advisory Board.   

Joseph M. Feczko   
      
  59  
      
  Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer since August 2006. Dr. Feczko, who joined us in 1982, has held various positions of increasing responsibility in research and development and
medical and regulatory operations. He was promoted to his position as Chief Medical Officer in 2002. Dr. Feczko is board-certified in Internal Medicine and a specialist in infectious diseases. After four years as Medical Director at
GlaxoSmithKline s Research   Development headquarters in London, Dr. Feczko returned to Pfizer in 1996 and was promoted to the position of Senior Vice President, Medical and Regulatory Operations for Global Pharmaceuticals. Dr. Feczko has
announced that he will retire in April 2009.   

Corey S. Goodman   
      
  57  
      
  Senior Vice President and President of Pfizer s Biotherapeutics and Bioinnovation Center since October 2007. Dr. Goodman has advised numerous biotechnology companies and co-founded two
companies, Exelixis and Renovis, Inc. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Renovis from 2001 until 2007. Dr. Goodman was a professor at the University of California, Berkeley from 1987 to 2001, and, while on faculty, served as the
Evan Rauch Professor of Neuroscience, the Director of the Wills Neuroscience Institute and an Investigator with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. Dr. Goodman is an Adjunct Professor at the University of California San Francisco and an elected
member of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences. He is a member of the supervisory board of Evotec AG.   
       
   22   

Table of Contents  

Martin Mackay   
      
  52  
      
  Senior Vice President and President of Pfizer Global Research   Development (PGRD) since October 2007. Early in 2007, he was named Vice President, PGRD, Head of Worldwide Development.
From 2003 to 2007, he held the position of Senior Vice President, Head of Worldwide Research and Technology. From 1999 to 2003 he was Senior Vice President, Head of Worldwide Discovery. In 1998 he held the position of Vice President, UK Discovery
and in 1997 he was Senior Director, Head of Biology.   

Mary McLeod   
      
  52  
      
  Senior Vice President of Worldwide Human Resources since April 2007. She served in this role on an interim basis from January to April 2007 while she was a consultant at Korn Consulting
Group. Prior to that, she led Human Resources for Symbol Technologies from 2005 to 2006 and was the head of Human Resources for Charles Schwab   Co., Inc. from 2001 to 2004. From 1999 to 2001, she was Vice President-Human Resources for Cisco
Systems and prior to that, Vice President of Human Resources for General Electric Company from 1992 to 1997. She is a Director of Belden Inc.   

Ian C. Read   
      
  55  
      
  Senior Vice President and President, Worldwide Pharmaceutical Operations since August 2006. Mr. Read has held various positions of increasing responsibility in pharmaceutical operations. He
previously served as Area President for the Europe, Canada, Africa and Middle East and Latin America regions and Senior Vice President of the Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Group. Mr. Read was elected a Vice President of Pfizer Inc. in April 2001. He is a
Director of Kimberly Clark Corporation.   

Natale S. Ricciardi   
      
  60  
      
  Senior Vice President and President Pfizer Global Manufacturing since October 2004. He held a number of positions of increasing responsibility in manufacturing before being named U.S.
Area Vice President/Team Leader for Pfizer Global Manufacturing in 1999. Mr. Ricciardi joined us in 1972. He is a Director of Mediacom Communications Corp.   

William R. Ringo   
      
  63  
      
  Senior Vice President of Strategy and Business Development since April 2008. Prior to joining Pfizer, Mr. Ringo served as Executive in Residence at Sofinnova Ventures from January 2007 until
March 2008 and as Executive in Residence at Warburg Pincus, a global private equity investment firm from November 2006 to December 2007. From August 2004 to April 2006, he was President and CEO of Abgenix, Inc., a biotechnology
firm.   

Amy W. Schulman   
      
  48  
      
  Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Pfizer since June 2008. In July 2008, she was elected Corporate Secretary. Ms. Schulman was a partner at the law firm of DLA Piper from 1997 until
joining Pfizer.   

Sally Susman   
      
  47  
      
  Senior Vice President and Chief Communications Officer since February 2008. Prior to joining Pfizer, Ms. Susman held senior level positions at The Estee Lauder Companies, including Executive
Vice President from December 2004 to January 2008 and Senior Vice President Global Communications from September 2000 through November 2004. Earlier in her career, Ms. Susman was responsible for all of American Express International s
internal and external communications and governmental affairs and spent eight years in government service focused on international trade issues.   
       
   23   

Table of Contents  

      PART II        

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR THE COMPANY S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES         The principal market for our Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange Euronext. Our stock is also listed on the London and Swiss Stock Exchanges and is
traded on various United States regional stock exchanges. Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the table captioned  Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)  in our 2008 Financial Report.
     This table provides certain information with respect to our purchases of shares of the Company s Common Stock during the fiscal
fourth quarter of 2008:       Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities(a)        

(a)      
    On June 23, 2005, Pfizer announced that the Board of Directors authorized a $5 billion share-purchase plan
(the 2005 Stock Purchase Plan). On June 26, 2006, Pfizer announced that the Board of Directors increased the authorized amount of shares to be purchased under the 2005 Stock Purchase Plan from $5 billion to $18 billion. On
January 23, 2008, Pfizer announced that the Board of Directors had authorized a new $5 billion share-purchase plan to be utilized from time to time.          

(b)      
    These columns reflect the following transactions during the fourth quarter of 2008: (i) the open-market purchase by
the trustee of 119,812 shares of common stock in connection with the reinvestment of dividends paid on common stock held in trust for employees who were granted performance-contingent share awards and who deferred receipt of such awards,
(ii) the surrender to Pfizer of 193,917 shares of common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units issued to employees, and (iii) the surrender to Pfizer of
125,288 shares of common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with vesting of performance-contingent share awards issued to employees.            
   24   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.   
     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA         Information
required by this item is incorporated by reference from the  Financial Summary  in our 2008 Financial Report.       

ITEM 7.   
     MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS         Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the Financial Review section of our 2008 Financial Report.       

ITEM 7A.   
     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK         Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Financial Risk Management  in our 2008 Financial Report.       

ITEM 8.   
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA         Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Consolidated Financial Statements  in our 2008 Financial Report and from the consolidated financial
statements, related notes and supplementary data in our 2008 Financial Report.       

ITEM 9.   
     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE         Not applicable.       

ITEM 9A.   
     CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES          Disclosure Controls  
     As of the end of the period covered by this 2008 Form 10-K, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation
of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and   
   
 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act )). Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal
financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in alerting them in a timely manner to material information required to be disclosed in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.       Internal Control over Financial Reporting       Management s report on the Company s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act), and the related report of our independent public accounting firm,
are included in our 2008 Financial Report under the headings  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting , respectively, and are incorporated by reference.       Changes in Internal Controls       During our most recent fiscal quarter, there has not been any change in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. However, we do wish to highlight some changes which, taken together, are
expected to have a favorable impact on our controls over a multi-year period. We continue to pursue a multi-year initiative to outsource some transaction-processing activities within certain accounting processes and are migrating to a consistent
enterprise resource planning system across the organization. These are enhancements of ongoing activities to support the growth of our financial shared service capabilities and standardize our financial systems. None of these initiatives is in
response to any identified deficiency or weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.       

ITEM 9B.   
     OTHER INFORMATION         Not applicable.

25   

Table of Contents  

       PART III        

ITEM 10.   
     DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE         Information about our Directors is incorporated by reference from the discussion under Item 1 of our 2009 Proxy Statement. Information about compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated
by reference from the discussion under the heading  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our 2009 Proxy Statement. Information about the Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct governing our employees, including our
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing our Directors, is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Pfizer Policies on Business
Ethics and Conduct  in our 2009 Proxy Statement. Information regarding the procedures by which our stockholders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Requirements,
Including Deadlines, for Submission of Proxy Proposals, Nomination of Directors and Other Business of Shareholders  in our 2009 Proxy Statement. Information about our Audit Committee, including the members of the Committee, and our Audit
Committee financial experts, is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings  The Audit Committee and Audit Committee Financial Experts  in our 2009 Proxy Statement. The balance of the information required by this item is
contained in the discussion entitled  Executive Officers of the Company  in Part I of this 2008 Form 10-K.       

ITEM 11.   
     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION         Information
about Director and executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings:    Compensation of Non-Employee Directors, Executive Compensation, Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation
 in our 2009 Proxy Statement.         

ITEM 12.   
     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS         Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings  Securities Ownership  and  Compensation
Discussion and Analysis  in our 2009 Proxy Statement.       

ITEM 13.   
     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         Information about certain relationships and transactions with related parties is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings
 Review of Related Person Transactions  and  Transactions with Related Persons  in our 2009 Proxy Statement. Information about director independence is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Director
Independence  in our 2009 Proxy Statement.       

ITEM 14.   
     PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES         Information about the fees for professional services rendered by our independent auditors in 2008 and 2007 is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Audit and Non-Audit Fees  in Item 2 of our 2009 Proxy
Statement. Our Audit Committee s policy on pre-approval of audit and permissible non-audit services of our independent auditors is incorporated by reference from the section captioned  Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and
Permissible Non-Audit Services of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in Item 2 of our 2009 Proxy Statement.   
       
   26   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV        

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES           
 15(a)(1) Financial Statements.  The following consolidated financial statements, related notes, report of independent registered public accounting firm and supplementary data from our 2008 Financial Report are incorporated by reference into
Item 8 of Part II of this 2008 Form 10-K:       

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Consolidated Financial Statements          

Consolidated Statements of Income          

Consolidated Balance Sheets          

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity          

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows          

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          

Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)            15(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules.  Schedules are omitted because they are not required or because the information is provided elsewhere in the financial statements. The financial
statements of unconsolidated subsidiaries are omitted because, considered in the aggregate, they would not constitute a significant subsidiary.         15(a)(3) Exhibits.  These exhibits are available upon request. Requests should be directed to Matthew Lepore, Vice President, Chief Counsel-Corporate Governance and Assistant General Counsel, Pfizer Inc., 235
East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017-5755. The exhibit numbers preceded by an asterisk (*) indicate exhibits physically filed with this 2008 Form 10-K. All other exhibit numbers indicate exhibits filed by incorporation by reference. Exhibit
numbers 10(1) through 10(23) are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.       

1      
    We agree to furnish to the SEC, upon request, a copy of each exhibit to this Agreement and Plan of Merger.

2      
    We agree to furnish to the SEC, upon request, a copy of each instrument with respect to issuances of long-term debt of
the Company and its subsidiaries.            
   27   

Table of Contents  

28   

Table of Contents  

*13  
      
  Portions of the 2008 Financial Report, which, except for those sections incorporated by reference, are furnished solely for the information of the SEC and are not to be deemed  filed. 

*21  
      
  Subsidiaries of the Company.   

*23  
      
  Consent of KPMG LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.   

*24  
      
  Power of Attorney (included as part of signature page).   

*31.1  
      
  Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

*31.2  
      
  Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

*32.1  
      
  Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

*32.2  
      
  Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   
       
   29   

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES       Under the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report was signed on behalf of the Registrant by the authorized person named below.       

Pfizer Inc.   

Dated: February 27, 2009  
     
  By:   
     
  / S /    A MY  W. S CHULMAN    

Amy W. Schulman,       Senior Vice President,       General Counsel and Corporate Secretary     

We, the undersigned directors and officers of Pfizer Inc., hereby severally constitute Amy W.
Schulman and Matthew Lepore, and each of them singly, our true and lawful attorneys with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, in our names in the capacities indicated below, any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.      Under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report was signed
by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
      
     Date     

/ S /    J EFFREY  B. K INDLER       Jeffrey B. Kindler    
      
    Chairman of the Board and     Chief Executive Officer and Director     (Principal Executive Officer)   
      
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    F RANK  A. D A MELIO       Frank A. D Amelio    
      
    Senior Vice President and     Chief Financial
Officer     (Principal Financial Officer)   
      
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    L ORETTA  V. C ANGIALOSI       Loretta V. Cangialosi    
      
    Senior Vice President Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)   
      
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    D ENNIS  A. A USIELLO       Dennis A. Ausiello    
      
  Director  
      
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    M ICHAEL  S. B ROWN       Michael S. Brown    
      
  Director  
      
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    M. A NTHONY  B URNS       M. Anthony Burns    
      
  Director  
      
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    R OBERT  N. B URT       Robert N. Burt    
      
  Director  
      
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    W. D ON  C ORNWELL       W. Don Cornwell    
      
  Director  
      
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    W ILLIAM  H. G RAY  III      William H. Gray III    
      
  Director  
      
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    C ONSTANCE  J. H ORNER       Constance J. Horner    
      
  Director  
      
  February 27, 2009   

30   

Table of Contents  

31   

<EX-10.(22)>
 2
 dex1022.htm
 ANNUAL RETAINER UNIT AWARD PLAN

Annual Retainer Unit Award Plan 

EXHIBIT 10(22)        PFIZER INC ANNUAL RETAINER UNIT AWARD PLAN       (Effective April 1996)       (Effective as of March 1, 2006, no further unit awards will be granted under this Plan)        (Amended Effective March 1, 2006.)        (Amended Effective January 1,
2009)       1.  Restricted Units . Each year, effective as of the date of the annual meeting of shareholders, each director who is not
an employee of Pfizer Inc (the  Company ) or any of its subsidiaries, shall receive the share equivalent of his or her annual retainer in restricted units. The appropriate number of units shall be based upon the five-day average of the
closing trading price of the Common stock of the Company on the New York Stock Exchange for the first five days of trading after April 1 of each year. The number of units shall be rounded up to the nearest unit. All such units shall be referred
to as the  Restricted Units.   Effective as of March 1, 2006, no further Restricted Units will be granted under this Plan.       2.  Investment . All Restricted Units shall be held in the general funds of the Company and shall be credited to the director s account. The director s account shall be credited with the number of Restricted Units received on
the date specified in Paragraph 1.      3  Dividends .      (A) Whenever a dividend is declared, the number of Restricted Units in the director s account shall be increased by the result of the
following calculations: 1) the number of Restricted Units in the director s account (including any increase in units due to deferred dividends) multiplied by any cash dividend declared by the Company on a share of its common stock, divided by
the closing market price of such common stock on the related dividend record date; and/or 2) the number of Restricted Units in the director s account multiplied by any stock dividend declared by the Company on a share of its common stock. In
the event of any change in the number or kind of outstanding shares of common stock of the Company including a stock split or splits, other than a stock dividend as provided above, an appropriate adjustment shall be made in the number of Restricted
Units credited to the director s account.      (B) Solely as to the Restricted Units granted, earned and vested prior to
January 1, 2005 (within the meaning of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), and regulations thereunder ( Section 409A )), a director may elect to receive directly in cash without
deferral the value of any cash dividend, declared by the Company on a share of its common stock, in lieu of having his or her account credited as specified above in Paragraph 3(A). Any such election shall be made, and may also be terminated, by
written notice directed to the Secretary of the Company prior to the calendar year of the payment of the dividend.      (C)
Solely as to the Restricted Units granted, earned or vested after December 31, 2004 (within the meaning of Section 409A), a director may elect to receive directly in cash without deferral the value of any cash dividend, declared by the
Company on a share of its common stock, in lieu of having his or her account credited as specified above in Paragraph 3(A), provided that (1) the director shall make his or her election as to the receipt of such cash dividends prior to the year
of payment of the applicable dividend and such election shall not apply to the dividends payable on any Restricted Units previously granted in a year prior to such election; and (2) the last such election shall apply to all future cash
dividends made subsequent to December 31, 2008 with respect to Restricted Units granted, earned or vested after December 31, 2004 (within the meaning of Section 409A). Such election is permanent and may not be changed thereafter.
     4.  Distributions . Effective January 1, 2005, except to the extent provided for dividends subject to an immediate cash
distribution election under Paragraph 3 of this Plan, all payments made from this Plan shall be made at the same time, and in the same form (as well as the same type of distribution, namely as to whether in cash or shares of common stock), as the
corresponding payments made from the Pfizer Inc Nonfunded Deferred Compensation and Unit Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended from time to time, and in accordance with the elections made thereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect
to Restricted Units granted, earned or vested after December 31, 2004 (within the meaning of Section 409A), and granted, earned and vested as of December 31, 2008, including related earnings thereon (the  2009 Distribution
Amounts ), such 2009 Distribution Amounts shall be paid in a lump sum to the director on July 1, 2009, provided the director files an election to do so with the Company by December 31, 2008. Such elections are permanent and may not be
changed after December 31, 2008, and will have no subsequent effect after July 1, 2009.      With respect to all Restricted Units in
the director s account, the amount payable to the director in each instance shall be determined by multiplying the number of Restricted Units by the closing market price of the Company s common stock on the day prior to the date for
payment or the last business day prior to that date, if the day prior to the date for payment is not a business day.   

Where the director receives the balance of his or her account in annual installments, each annual
installment shall be a fraction of the value of the balance of the Restricted Units credited to the director s account on the date of such payment, the numerator of which is one (1) and the denominator of which is the total number of
installments remaining to be paid at that time.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, solely as to the Restricted Units granted, earned or vested
after December 31, 2004 (within the meaning of Section 409A), distributions may not be made to a Key Employee upon a Separation from Service before the date which is six months after the date of the Key Employee s Separation from
Service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Key Employee). Any payments that would otherwise be made during this period of delay shall be accumulated and paid on the first day of the seventh month following the director s Separation from
Service (or, if earlier, the first day of the month after the director s death). For purposes of this paragraph:      (A)
 Key Employee  means an individual who is treated as a  specified employee  as of his Separation from Service under Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), i.e., a key employee (as defined in Code section 416(i) without regard to
paragraph (5) thereof) of the Company or its affiliates if the Company s stock is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise. Key Employees shall be determined in accordance with Code section 409A using a
January 1 identification date. A listing of Key Employees as of an identification date shall be effective for the 12-month period following the identification date; and      (B)  Separation from Service  means a  separation from service  within the meaning of Code section 409A.   
  5.  Death . If a director should die before full payment of all Restricted Units credited to his or her account, the value of such Restricted
Units shall be paid to his or her designated beneficiary or beneficiaries or to his or her estate in accordance with his or her elections on file under and the provisions of the Pfizer Inc Nonfunded Deferred Compensation and Unit Plan for
Non-Employee Directors, as amended from time to time. The value of such Restricted Units shall be determined by multiplying the number of Restricted Units by the closing market price of the Company s common stock on the date of the
director s death or on the next business day if the date of death is not a business day.      6  Anti-Assignment Provision . The
right of a director to any Restricted Units and any related earnings credited to his or her account shall not be subject to assignment by him or her. If a director does assign his or her right to any Restricted Units credited to his or her account,
the Company may disregard such assignment and discharge its obligation hereunder by making payment as though no such assignment had been made.   

</EX-10.(22)>

<EX-10.(23)>
 3
 dex1023.htm
 NONFUNDED DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND UNIT AWARD PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS

Nonfunded Deferred Compensation and Unit Award Plan for Non-Employee Directors 

EXHIBIT 10(23)        PFIZER INC. NONFUNDED DEFERRED        COMPENSATION AND UNIT AWARD PLAN FOR        NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS       (Effective
June 23, 1994)      (Amended September 26, 1996)      (Further Amended Effective March 1, 2006)      (Further Amended Effective January 1, 2008)   
  (Further Amended Effective January 1, 2009)      1.  Deferral Election for Cash Compensation . Each director who is not an employee of Pfizer Inc (the  Company ) or any of its subsidiaries may elect on or before the last day of any calendar year to have payment of all or a
specified part of all fees payable to him or her for services as a director during the following calendar year and thereafter deferred until he or she Separates from Service (as defined in Paragraph 8) with the Company. Any such election shall be
made by written notice directed to the Secretary of the Company. A director s election to defer fees shall continue until a director Separates from Service unless he or she earlier terminates such election with respect to future fees by timely
written notice delivered to the Secretary of the Company. Any such notice shall become effective on the first day of the calendar year immediately following written notice directed to the Secretary of the Company. Amounts credited to the account of
a director prior to the effective date of such notice shall not be affected thereby and shall be paid to him or her in accordance with paragraph 5 (or paragraph 6 in the event of his or her death) below.      2.  Investment of Deferred Cash Compensation . All deferred cash fees ( Deferred Cash Compensation ) shall be held in the general funds of
the Company and shall be credited to the director s account, and, at the director s election, the account shall be credited either with a) interest at a rate equal to the rate of return for an intermediate treasury index as selected by the
Plan Assets Committee, compounded monthly, or b) a number of units, calculated to the nearest thousandth of a unit, produced by dividing the amount of fees deferred by the closing market price of the Company s common stock as reported on the
Consolidated Tape of the New York Stock Exchange on the last business day of the fiscal quarter in which the fees are earned. A director may elect to switch the investment form of deferral of previously deferred Deferred Cash Compensation effective
on the first day of any calendar quarter by giving prior written notice directed to the Secretary of the Company; provided, however, that a switch into, or out of, the unit account shall be permitted only if the director has not elected to switch
out of, or into, the unit account within this Plan, the Pfizer Company Stock Fund within the Pfizer Savings Plan or the unit account within the Pfizer Inc. Nonfunded Deferred Compensation and Supplemental Savings Plan during the prior six months.
The Awarded Units, as described in paragraph 3, shall not be affected by any such election.      3.  Awards of Units . An award consisting
of 5,500 units shall be made to each director who is elected for the first time, and thereafter each year that he or she continues as a director effective as of the date of the annual meeting of shareholders. All such units shall be referred to as
the  Awarded Units.  In the event of any change in the number or kind of outstanding shares of common stock of the Company, including a stock split or splits, or a stock dividend, an appropriate adjustment shall be made in the number of
Awarded Units. The director s account shall be credited with the number of Units so awarded and such Units shall remain credited until distribution as described in paragraph 5 below (or paragraph 6 in the case of the director s death).

4.  
   Dividends .        (A) Whenever a dividend
is declared, the number of units in the director s account (both with respect to Deferred Cash Compensation invested in the unit account and Awarded Units, and including any increase in units due to deferred dividends pursuant to this Paragraph
4(A)) shall be increased by the result of the following calculations: 1) the number of units in the director s account multiplied by any cash dividend declared by the Company on a share of its common stock, divided by the closing market price
of such common stock on the related dividend record date; and/or 2) the number of units in the director s account multiplied by any stock dividend declared by the Company on a share of its common stock. In the event of any change in the number
or kind of outstanding shares of common stock of the Company including a stock split or splits, other than a stock dividend as provided above, an appropriate adjustment shall be made in the number of units credited to the director s account.
     (B) Solely as to the Awarded Units granted, earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 (within the meaning of section
409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), and regulations thereunder ( Section 409A )), a director may elect to receive directly in cash without deferral the value of any cash dividend, declared by the
Company on a share of its common stock, in lieu of having his or her account credited as specified above in Paragraph 4(A). Any such election shall be made, and may also be terminated, by written notice directed to the Secretary of the Company prior
to the calendar year of the payment of the dividend.   

(C) Solely as to the Awarded Units granted, earned or vested after December 31, 2004
(within the meaning of Section 409A), a director may elect to receive directly in cash without deferral the value of any cash dividend, declared by the Company on a share of its common stock, in lieu of having his or her account credited as
specified above in Paragraph 4(A), if such election is made within 30 days of the director s first becoming eligible to participate in this Plan or another account balance plan required to be aggregated with this Plan under Section 409A,
provided that such election shall apply only with respect to dividends declared subsequent to the date of receipt of the election by the Company. Otherwise such dividends on any such Awarded Units will be deferred to the director s unit account
as described above in Paragraph 4(A).   Such election is permanent and may not be changed thereafter. For individuals who were, are, or will be eligible directors at any time between December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2008, and with
respect to the cash dividends received on Awarded Units granted, earned or vested after December 31, 2004 (within the meaning of Section 409A) and granted, earned, and vested prior to December 31, 2008, such directors shall make their
elections as to the receipt of such cash dividends prior to the year of payment of the applicable dividend and such elections shall not apply to the dividends payable on any Awarded Units previously granted in a year prior to such election. The last
such election shall apply to all future cash dividends made subsequent to December 31, 2008 with respect to Awarded Units granted, earned or vested after December 31, 2004 (within the meaning of Section 409A). Such election is
permanent and may not be changed thereafter.       

5.  
   Distributions.          (A)  Deferred
Cash Compensation and Awarded Units deferred prior to January 1, 2005 . With respect to Deferred Cash Compensation and Awarded Units granted, earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 (within the meaning of Section 409A), and
including related earnings thereon, at least one year before he or she ceases to be a director of the Company, a director may elect, or may modify an election that he or she had previously made, to receive payment (payable in either cash or shares
of common stock at the election of the director) of his or her combined Deferred Cash Compensation and Awarded Units accounts in a lump sum or in annual installments from two to fifteen, and he or she may elect to have such lump sum payment or first
annual installment made either (1) on the last business day of the month following termination, or (2) in January of the year following his or her termination as a director. In the absence of an election, such payment will begin with the
first month of the year following the director s termination and will be made in five annual installments.      (B)
 Deferred Cash Compensation and Awarded Units deferred after December 31, 2004 . With respect to Deferred Cash Compensation and Awarded Units granted, earned or vested after December 31, 2004 (within the meaning of Section 409A),
and including related earnings thereon, within 30 days of first becoming eligible to participate in this Plan or another account balance plan required to be aggregated with this Plan under Section 409A, a director must elect the timing and form
of his or her distribution (payable in either cash or shares of common stock at the election of the director) of his or her deferred compensation account (containing both Deferred Cash Compensation and Awarded Units and related earnings thereon);
except that for individuals who were, are, or will be eligible directors prior to or as of December 31, 2008, such directors shall make their elections as to the form and timing of distribution on or before December 31, 2008 in accordance
with the transition rule contained in IRS Notice 2007-86. Such elections are permanent and may not be changed thereafter. The director must elect as to:       

(i)  
  Timing:        i. to receive the lump sum
distribution or first annual installment on the last business day of the month following his or her Separation from Service; or      ii. to receive the lump sum distribution or first annual installment in the first month of the year following the director s Separation from Service; and       

(ii)  
  Form:        i. to receive the distribution in a
lump sum; or      ii. to receive the distribution in installments from two to fifteen.       

(iii)  
  In the absence of an election, such payments will begin with the first month of the year following the director s Separation from Service and will be made in five annual
installments.        (C) (i) With respect to all units in the director s account (containing both Deferred Cash Compensation
and Awarded Units and related earnings thereon), the amount payable to the director in each instance shall be determined by multiplying the number of units by the closing market price of the Company s common stock on the day prior to the date
for payment or the last business day prior to that date, if the day prior to the date for payment is not a business day.      (ii) Where the director receives the balance of his or her account in annual installments, each installment shall be a fraction of the value of the balance of the deferred compensation credited to the director s account either by way
of interest or units calculated under Paragraph 2 hereof, as the case may be, on the date of such payment, the numerator of which is one (1) and the denominator of which is the total number of installments remaining to be paid at that time.

(D) Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Deferred Cash Compensation and Awarded
Units granted, earned or vested after December 31, 2004 (within the meaning of Section 409A), and including related earnings thereon, distributions may not be made to a Key Employee (as defined in Paragraph 8) upon a Separation from
Service before the date which is six months after the date of the Key Employee s Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Key Employee). Any payments that would otherwise be made during this period of delay shall be
accumulated and paid on the first day of the seventh month following the director s Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the first day of the month after the director s death).      (E) Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Deferred Cash Compensation and Awarded Units granted, earned or vested after
December 31, 2004 (within the meaning of Section 409A), and granted, earned and vested as of December 31, 2008, including related earnings thereon (the  2009 Distribution Amounts ), such 2009 Distribution Amounts shall be
paid in a lump sum to the director on July 1, 2009, provided the director files an election to do so with the Company by December 31, 2008. Such elections are permanent and may not be changed after December 31, 2008, and will have no
subsequent effect after July 1, 2009.       
    (A) A director may
designate one or more beneficiaries (which may be an entity other than a natural person) to receive any payments to be made upon the director s death. At any time, and from time to time, the identity of such beneficiary designation may be
changed or canceled by the director without the consent of any beneficiary. Any such beneficiary designation, change or cancellation must be by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company and shall not be effective until received by the
Secretary. If a director designates more than one beneficiary, any payments to such beneficiaries shall be made in equal shares unless the director has designated otherwise. If no beneficiary has been named by the director, or the designated
beneficiaries have predeceased him or her, the director s beneficiary shall be the executor or administrator of the director s estate.      (B) With respect to Deferred Cash Compensation and Awarded Units granted, earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 (within the meaning of Section 409A), and including related earnings thereon, if a
director should die before full payment of all amounts credited to his or her account, such amounts shall be paid to his or her designated beneficiary or beneficiaries or to his or her estate in a single sum payment to be made as soon as practicable
after his or her death.      (C) With respect to Deferred Cash Compensation and Awarded Units granted, earned or vested after
December 31, 2004 (within the meaning of Section 409A), and including related earnings thereon, within 30 days of first becoming eligible to participate in this Plan or another account balance plan required to be aggregated with this Plan
under Section 409A, a director may elect for his or her designated beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive the account in a lump sum payment or installments from two to fifteen, provided the elections (including the election hereunder) are made
in accordance with paragraph 5(B). For individuals who were, are, or will be eligible directors prior to or as of December 31, 2008, such directors shall make their election as to the form of distribution for their beneficiary or beneficiaries
on or before December 31, 2008 in accordance with the transition rule contained in IRS Notice 2007-86. Such elections are permanent and may not be changed thereafter.      7. The right of a director to any Deferred Cash Compensation or Awarded Units credited to his or her account and including related earnings thereon shall
not be subject to assignment by him or her. If a director does assign his or her right to any Deferred Cash Compensation or Awarded Units credited to his or her account, the Company may disregard such assignment and discharge its obligation
hereunder by making payment as though no such assignment had been made.       

8.  
  For purposes of this plan:        (A)  Key
Employee  means an individual who is treated as a  specified employee  as of his Separation from Service under Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), i.e., a key employee (as defined in Code section 416(i) without regard to paragraph
(5) thereof) of the Company or its affiliates if the Company s stock is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise. Key Employees shall be determined in accordance with Code section 409A using a January 1
identification date. A listing of Key Employees as of an identification date shall be effective for the 12-month period following the identification date; and      (B)  Separation from Service  or  Separate(s) from Service  means a  separation from service  within the
meaning of Section 409A.   

</EX-10.(23)>

<EX-12>
 4
 dex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12        PFIZER INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES        COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
       
    All financial information reflects the following as discontinued operations for 2006, 2005 and
2004: the Consumer Healthcare business; certain European generics businesses; and for 2004: our in-vitro allergy and autoimmune diagnostics testing, and surgical ophthalmics.       

(b)    
        Preferred stock dividends are from our Series A convertible
perpetual preferred stock held by an Employee Stock Ownership Plan assumed in connection with our acquisition of Pharmacia in 2003.          

(c)    
        Rents included in the computation consist of one-third of rental
expense, which we believe to be a conservative estimate of an interest factor in our leases, which are not material.      

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 5
 dex13.htm
 PORTIONS OF THE 2008 FINANCIAL REPORT

Portions of the 2008 Financial Report 

Exhibit 13               Pfizer Inc.      2008 Financial
Report                 

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                     Introduction       Our Financial Review is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and footnotes to assist readers in understanding Pfizer s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Financial
Review is organized as follows:       

Overview of Our Performance and Operating Environment . This section provides information about the following: our business; our 2008 performance; our operating
environment and response to key opportunities and challenges; our cost-reduction initiatives; our strategic initiatives, such as significant licensing and new business development transactions, as well as the disposition of our Consumer Healthcare
business in December 2006; and our expectations for 2009.          

Accounting Policies . This section, beginning on page 13, discusses those accounting policies that we consider important in understanding Pfizer s consolidated
financial statements. For additional accounting policies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies .            

Analysis of the Consolidated Statement of Income . This section, beginning on page 17, provides an analysis of our revenues and products for the three years ended
December 31, 2008, including an overview of important product developments; a discussion about our costs and expenses; and a discussion of Adjusted income, which is an alternative view of performance used by management.

Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources . This section, beginning on page 34, provides an analysis of our consolidated balance sheet as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, and consolidated cash flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and commitments that existed as of December 31, 2008. Included
in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund Pfizer s future activities.          

New Accounting Standards . This section, beginning on page 39, discusses accounting standards that we have recently adopted, as well as those that have been recently
issued, but not yet adopted by us. For those standards that we have not yet adopted, we have included a discussion of the expected impact to Pfizer, if known.          

Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results . This section, beginning on page 40, provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that
could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this Financial Review relating to our financial results, operations and business plans and prospects. Such forward-looking statements are
based on management s current expectations about future events, which are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Also included in this section are discussions of Financial Risk Management and Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies.          Overview of Our Performance and Operating Environment        Our Business       We are a global, research-based company applying innovative science to improve world health. Our efforts in support of that
purpose include the discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of safe and effective medicines; the exploration of ideas that advance the frontiers of science and medicine; and the support of programs dedicated to illness prevention, health
and wellness, and increased access to quality healthcare. Our value proposition is to demonstrate that our medicines can safely and effectively prevent and treat disease, including the associated symptoms and suffering, and can form the basis for an
overall improvement in healthcare systems and their related costs. Our revenues are derived from the sale of our products, as well as through alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered by other companies.      Our Pharmaceutical segment represented approximately 91% of our total revenues in 2008 and, therefore, developments relating to the pharmaceutical industry can have a significant
impact on our operations.      On January 26, 2009, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we will acquire Wyeth in a
cash-and-stock transaction valued on that date at $50.19 per share, or a total of $68 billion. The Boards of Directors of both Pfizer and Wyeth have approved the transaction. Under the terms of the merger agreement, each outstanding share of Wyeth
common stock will be converted into the right to receive $33 in cash and 0.985 of a share of Pfizer common stock, subject to adjustment as set forth in the merger agreement. Based on the closing price of our stock on January 23, 2009, the
last trading day prior to our announcement on January 26, the stock component was valued at $17.19 per share. We expect the transaction will close at the end of the third quarter or during the fourth quarter of 2009, subject to Wyeth
shareholder approval, governmental and regulatory approvals, the satisfaction of conditions related to the debt financing for the transaction, and other usual and customary closing conditions.       Our 2008 Performance       In 2008, our revenues and net income were essentially flat when
compared with 2007; however, there were significant events and factors impacting almost all income statement elements. Overall, our 2008 performance reflects the solid contributions of our in-line patent-protected products not impacted by loss of
exclusivity; the negative impact of products that have lost exclusivity in the U.S.; the favorable impact of foreign exchange; certain charges related to agreements and to agreements in principle to resolve certain legal matters; the impact of
acquisitions; and the positive impact of our cost-reduction initiatives.      In 2008, we continued to face an extremely competitive environment for all of our products.
     The details of our 2008 performance follow:       

the favorable impact of foreign exchange, which increased revenues by approximately $1.6 billion in 2008;            

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

an aggregate year-over-year increase in revenues from products launched since 2006; and          

the solid aggregate performance of the balance of our broad portfolio of patent-protected medicines,         offset by:       

the impact of loss of U.S. exclusivity and cessation of selling of Zyrtec/Zyrtec D in January 2008.         Norvasc, Camptosar and Zyrtec/Zyrtec D collectively experienced a decline in revenues of about $2.6 billion in 2008 compared to 2007. The significant product and alliance revenue
impacts on revenues for 2008, compared to 2007, are as follows:       

(a)     
    Sutent is a new product that was launched since 2006.      

(b)     
    Zyrtec/Zyrtec D lost U.S. exclusivity in late January 2008, at which time we ceased selling this product. Camptosar lost U.S.
exclusivity in February 2008.      

(d)     
    Chantix/Champix is a new product that was launched since 2006. U.S. prescription trends and revenues have declined following the
changes to its U.S. label during 2008.      

(e)     
    Lipitor has been impacted by competitive pressures and other factors.         As of September 30, 2008, our portfolio of medicines included nine medicines that led their therapeutic areas based on revenues. (See further discussion in the  Analysis
of the Consolidated Statement of Income  section of this Financial Review.)       

Certain Charges          

Bextra and Certain Other Investigations         In January 2009,
we entered into an agreement in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice to resolve the previously reported investigation regarding allegations of past off-label promotional practices concerning Bextra, as well as certain other open
investigations. In connection with these actions, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a charge of $2.3 billion, pre-tax and after-tax, in  Other (income)/deductions   net  and such amount is included in  Other current
liabilities .      See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 19D. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies: Government Investigations and
Requests for Information .       

Certain Product Litigation   Celebrex and Bextra         In
October 2008, we reached agreements in principle to resolve the pending U.S. consumer fraud purported class action cases and more than 90% of the known U.S. personal injury claims involving Celebrex and Bextra, and we reached agreements to resolve
substantially all of the claims of state attorneys general primarily relating to alleged Bextra promotional practices. In connection with these actions, in the third quarter of 2008, we recorded aggregate litigation-related charges of approximately
$900 million, pre-tax, in  Other (income)/deductions net . Virtually all of this amount is included in  Other current liabilities . Although we believe that we have insurance coverage for a portion of the proposed personal injury
settlements, no insurance recoveries have been recorded.      We believe that the charges related to personal injury claims will be sufficient to resolve
all known U.S. personal injury claims, including those not being settled at this time. However, additional charges may have to be taken in the future in connection with certain pending claims and unknown claims relating to Celebrex and Bextra.
     See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 19B. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies: Product Litigation  for a discussion of
recent developments with respect to litigation related to Celebrex and Bextra.         

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

Adjustment of Prior Years  Liabilities for Product Returns         Revenues in 2008 include a reduction of $217 million, pre-tax, to adjust our prior years' liabilities for product returns. After a detailed review in 2008 of our returns experience, we determined that our previous accounting methodology for
product returns needed to be revised, as the lag time between product sale and return was actually longer than we had previously assumed. Although fully recorded in the third quarter of 2008, virtually all of the adjustment relates back several
years. We have also reviewed our expense calculations for the prior years and determined that the expense recorded in those years was not materially different from what would have been recorded under our revised approach.       

Exubera         In the third quarter of 2007, we exited Exubera,
an inhalable form of insulin for the treatment of diabetes. Total pre-tax charges in 2007 were $2.8 billion and were included primarily in  Cost of sales  ($2.6 billion),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($85 million),
and  Research and development expenses  ($100 million). The charges comprised asset write-offs of $2.2 billion (intangibles, inventory and fixed assets) and other exit costs, primarily severance, contract and other termination costs. As of
December 31, 2008, the remaining accrual for other exit costs is approximately $152 million. Substantially all of this cash spending is expected to be completed in 2009. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 4D. Certain
Charges: Exubera .       

Acquisitions We completed a number of strategic acquisitions that we believe will strengthen and broaden our existing pharmaceutical capabilities. In 2008, we acquired
Serenex Inc. (Serenex), a privately held biotechnology company with SNX-5422 and an extensive Hsp90 inhibitor compound library; Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Encysive), a biopharmaceutical company with the pulmonary arterial hypertension product,
Thelin; CovX, a privately held biotherapeutics company specializing in preclinical oncology and metabolic research; Coley Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Coley), a biopharmaceutical company specializing in vaccines and drug candidates designed to fight
cancers, allergy and asthma disorders, and autoimmune diseases; a number of animal health product lines in Europe from Schering-Plough Corporation (Schering-Plough); and two smaller acquisitions also related to Animal Health. (See further discussion
in the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions: Acquisitions, Licensing and Collaborations  section of this Financial Review.)          

Cost-reduction initiatives We made significant progress with our cost-reduction and transformation initiatives, launched in early 2005, which are a broad-based,
company-wide effort to improve performance and efficiency. In 2008, we exceeded our cost-reduction goal by reducing adjusted total costs by $2.8 billion, compared to 2006, on a constant currency basis (the actual foreign exchange rates in effect
during 2006). In January 2009, we announced a new cost-reduction initiative that we anticipate will drive a lower, more variable cost structure to achieve a reduction in adjusted total costs of approximately $3 billion, based on the actual foreign
exchange rates in effect during 2008, by the end of 2011, compared with our 2008 adjusted total costs. We plan to reinvest approximately $1 billion of these savings in the business, resulting in an expected $2 billion net decrease. Reductions will
span sales, manufacturing, research and development, and administrative organizations. (See further discussion in the  Our Cost-Reduction Initiatives  section of this Financial Review.) We incurred related costs of approximately $4.2
billion in 2008, $3.9 billion in 2007 and $2.1 billion in 2006. (For an understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted income  section of this Financial Review).          

Income from continuing operations  was $8.0 billion compared to $8.2 billion in 2007. The decrease reflected the following:          

a $2.3 billion, pre-tax and after-tax, charge resulting from an agreement in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice to resolve the previously reported investigation
regarding allegations of past off-label promotional practices concerning Bextra, as well as certain other open investigations, and a $640 million after-tax charge related to agreements and agreements in principle to resolve certain non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) litigation and claims;          

higher  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges  (IPR D). In 2008, we incurred IPR D of $633 million, pre-tax, primarily related to our
acquisitions of Serenex, Encysive, CovX, Coley, and a number of animal health product lines from Schering-Plough, as well as two smaller acquisitions also related to Animal Health, compared with IPR D of $283 million, pre-tax, in 2007, primarily
related to our acquisitions of BioRexis Pharmaceutical Corp. (BioRexis) and Embrex, Inc. (Embrex);          

the up-front payment of $225 million to Medivation, Inc. (Medivation) in connection with our collaboration to develop and commercialize Dimebon and the up-front payment of
$75 million to Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Auxilium) in connection with our collaboration to develop and commercialize Xiaflex;          

a higher effective income tax rate, despite the tax benefits in 2008 related to favorable effectively settled tax issues and the sale of one of our biopharmaceutical
companies (Esperion Therapeutics, Inc.); and          

lower interest income compared to 2007, due primarily to lower average net financial assets during 2008 as compared to 2007, reflecting proceeds of $16.6 billion from the
sale of our Consumer Healthcare business in December 2006, and lower interest rates,         partially offset by:       

lower asset impairment charges, primarily due to $1.8 billion, after-tax, in 2007 related to our decision to exit Exubera;          

the favorable impact of foreign exchange;          

savings related to our cost-reduction initiatives; and          

a payment recorded in 2007 to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) in connection with our collaboration to develop and commercialize apixaban.          

Discontinued operations net of tax  were a gain of $78 million in 2008, compared with a loss of $69 million in 2007. (See further discussion in the  Our
Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions: Dispositions  section of this Financial Review.)            

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                     Our Operating Environment and Response to Key Opportunities and Challenges       Despite the challenging financial markets, Pfizer maintains a strong financial position. We have a strong balance sheet and excellent liquidity that provides us with financial
flexibility. Our long-term debt is rated high quality and investment grade by both Standard   Poor s and Moody s Investors Services. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. We have and will
continue to take a conservative approach to our investments. Both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, investment-grade available-for-sale debt securities. As a result, we continue
to believe that we have the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future. (For further discussion of our financial condition, see the "Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources  section of this Financial Review.)
     We and our industry continue to face significant challenges in a profoundly changing business environment, and we are taking steps to fundamentally change the way we
run our businesses to meet these challenges, as well as to take advantage of the diverse and attractive opportunities that we see in the marketplace. In response to these challenges and opportunities, we are progressing on  our path
forward  strategies for growth:       

Maximize revenues;      

Establish a more flexible cost base; and      

Innovate our business model.         For details about our strategic
initiatives, see the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions  section of this Financial Review, and for details about our cost-reduction initiatives, see the  Our Cost-Reduction Initiatives  section of
this Financial Review.      There are a number of industry-wide factors that may affect our business and they should be considered along with the information presented in
the  Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results  section of this Financial Review. Such industry-wide factors include pricing and access, intellectual property rights, product competition, the regulatory
environment, pipeline productivity and the changing business environment. In addition to industry-specific factors, we, like other businesses, face the potential effects of the global economic recession. We cannot predict what impacts recent
economic and financial market developments may have on our results of operations. Such developments could, among other things, result in lower usage of our products and additional pricing pressures as payers seek to lower their costs. We continue to
monitor our financial investments, key customers, suppliers, accounts receivable and credit risk. We believe we have the ability to meet our product manufacturing and distribution needs. Excluding the proposed acquisition of Wyeth, recent declines
in our stock price could inhibit our ability to use equity for acquisitions (see further discussion in the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions: Acquisitions, Licensing and Collaborations  section of this
Financial Review). In addition, further declines in our stock price could trigger an impairment of goodwill.        Agreement to Acquire Wyeth        On January 26, 2009, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we will acquire Wyeth in a cash-and-stock transaction valued on that date
at $50.19 per share, or a total of $68 billion. (See further discussion in the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions: Acquisitions, Licensing and Collaborations  section of this Financial Review for details
relating to this transaction.)      We believe that the combination of Pfizer and Wyeth will create the world s premier biopharmaceutical company. The combined
entity will be one of the most diversified in the industry and will benefit from complementary patient-centric units. We believe that, in a single transaction, the combination will meaningfully deliver on our strategic priorities, including the
following:       

Enhancing the in-line and pipeline patent-protected portfolio in key  Invest to Win  disease areas, such as Alzheimer s disease, inflammation, oncology, pain
and psychosis;          

Becoming a top-tier player in biotherapeutics and vaccines;          

Accelerating growth in emerging markets;          

Creating new opportunities for established products;          

Investing in complementary businesses; and          

Creating a lower, more flexible cost base.           Pricing and Access
       We believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases, but
also from a reduction in other healthcare costs such as hospitalization or emergency room costs, as well as in improvements in health, wellness and productivity. Notwithstanding the benefits of our products, the pressures from governments and other
payer groups are continuing and increasing. These pressure points can include price controls, price cuts (directly or by rebate actions) and regulatory changes that limit access to certain medicines.         

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

Governments around the world continue to seek discounts on our products, either by leveraging their significant purchasing power or by mandating prices or implementing
various forms of price controls. The growing power of managed care organizations in the U.S. has similarly increased the pressure on pharmaceutical prices and access.          

In the U.S., the enactment of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Medicare Act), which went into effect in 2006, expanded access to
medicines for Medicare beneficiaries. This program has been successfully implemented, with high levels of beneficiary satisfaction and lower-than-expected costs to the government and to beneficiaries due to the enhanced purchasing power of health
plans in the private sector that enables negotiation on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries. Despite this success, the exclusive role of private sector health plans in negotiating prices for the Medicare drug benefit remains controversial and
legislative changes have been proposed to allow the Federal government to directly negotiate prices with pharmaceutical manufacturers. While expanded access under the Medicare Act has resulted in increased use of our products, the substantial
purchasing power of health plans that negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries has increased the pressure on prices. It is expected that if legislation were enacted to provide for direct Federal government negotiation in the Medicare
prescription drug program, access to and reimbursement for our products would be restricted.          

In response to cost concerns by payers, utilization of generics is increasing as a percentage of total pharmaceutical use, especially in the U.S. Payers are also selectively
sponsoring campaigns designed to interchange generic products for molecularly dissimilar branded products within a therapeutic category.          

Consumers have become aware of global price differences that result from price controls imposed by certain governments and some have become more vocal about their desire that
governments allow the sourcing of medicines across national borders. In the U.S., there have been a number of legislative proposals to permit importation of medicines, despite the increased risk of receiving inferior, counterfeit products. The
Secretaries of Health and Human Services in both the Clinton and Bush Administrations declined to certify under current law that importation of medicines is safe and saves money. If the new Secretary of Health and Human Services were to certify that
importation is safe and does save money, an increase in cross-border trade in medicines subject to foreign price controls in other countries could occur.          

Pharmaceutical promotion is highly regulated in most markets around the world. In the U.S., there is growing interest at both the Federal and state level in further
restricting marketing communications and increasing the level of disclosure of marketing activities.          

A growing number of health systems in markets around the world are employing cost effectiveness evaluations and using their findings to help inform pricing and access
decisions, especially for newly introduced biopharmaceutical products. In the U.S., there is growing interest by government and private payers in adopting comparative clinical effectiveness methodologies. While comparative clinical effectiveness
research may enhance our ability to demonstrate the value of our products, it is also possible that comparative effectiveness research could be implemented in a manner designed to focus on cost, minimize therapeutic differences and restrict access
to innovative medicines.         Our response:       

We will continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to
maximize access to patients and minimize the impact on our revenues.          

We will continue to actively engage patients, physicians and payers in dialogues about the value of our products and how we can best work with them to prevent and treat
disease, and improve outcomes.          

We will continue to encourage payers to work with us early in the development process to ensure that our approved products will deliver the value expected by those payers.

We will continue to be a constructive force in helping to shape healthcare policy and regulation of our products. In particular, we are actively working to support health
reform in the U.S. in a way that expands coverage for all Americans (with public subsidies and private sector delivery), improves quality and provides value to patients.          

On February 10, 2009, we announced plans to make publicly available our compensation of U.S. healthcare professionals for consulting, speaking engagements and clinical
trials. This disclosure will include payments made to practicing U.S. physicians and other healthcare providers, as well as principal investigators, major academic institutions and research sites for clinical research. We plan to publish our first
annual update on our website in early 2010.           Intellectual Property Rights        Our business model is highly dependent on intellectual property rights, primarily in the form of government-granted patent rights, and on our ability to enforce and defend those
rights around the world.       

Intellectual property legal protections and remedies are a significant factor in our business. Many of our products are protected by a wide range of patents, such as
composition-of-matter patents, compound patents, patents covering processes and procedures and/or patents issued for additional indications or uses. As such, many of our products have multiple patents that expire at varying dates, thereby
strengthening our overall patent protection. However, once patent protection has expired or been lost prior to the expiration  

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

date as the result of a legal challenge, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers generally produce similar products and sell those products for a lower price. This price
competition can substantially decrease our revenues for products that lose exclusivity, often in a very short period. In the U.S., substantial revenue declines occur in the first year after patent expiration. Revenues in many international markets
do not have the same sharp decline compared to the U.S. in the first year after loss of exclusivity, due to less restrictive policies on generic substitution, different competitive dynamics, and less intervention by government/payers in physician
decision-making, among other factors.          

The loss of patent protection with respect to any of our major products can have a material adverse effect on future revenues and our results of operations. As mentioned
above, our performance in 2008 was significantly impacted by our loss of U.S. exclusivity for Norvasc in March 2007 and Camptosar in February 2008. Further, we experienced a substantial adverse impact on our 2008 performance from the loss of U.S.
exclusivity for Zyrtec/Zyrtec D in late January 2008, at which time we ceased selling this product. These three products represented 6% of our total revenues and 1% of our total U.S. revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, and 11% of our
total revenues and 12% of our total U.S. revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. Revenues in the U.S. contributed approximately 42% of our total revenues in 2008, 48% of our total revenues in 2007 and 53% of our total revenues in 2006.

Patents covering our products are also subject to legal challenges. Increasingly, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers are launching products that are under legal challenge
for patent infringement before the final resolution of the associated legal proceedings called an  at-risk  launch. The success of any of these  at-risk  challenges could significantly impact our revenues and results of
operations. Generic manufacturers are also advancing increasingly novel interpretations of patent law to establish grounds for legal challenges to branded patents.          

There is a continuing disparity in the recognition and enforcement of intellectual property rights among countries worldwide. Organizations such as the World Trade
Organization (WTO), under the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), have been instrumental in educating governments about the long-term benefits of strong patent laws. However, certain activists have
challenged the pharmaceutical industry s position in developing markets.          

The integrity of our products is subject to an increasingly predatory atmosphere, as seen in the growing problem of counterfeit drugs. These drugs can harm patients through a
lack of active ingredients, the inclusion of harmful components or improper accompanying packaging. Our ability to work with law enforcement to successfully counter these dangerous criminal activities will have an impact on our revenues and results
of operations.         Our response:       

We will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights against increasingly aggressive infringement whenever appropriate. (See also Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies ).          

We will continue to participate in the generics market for our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity.          

We will continue to take actions to deliver more products of greater value more quickly. (See further discussion in the  Regulatory Environment and Pipeline
Productivity  section of this Financial Review.)          

We will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights, while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access.

We will continue to employ innovative approaches to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of
our products.           Product Competition        Some of our
products face competition in the form of generic drugs or new branded products, which treat similar diseases or indications. For example, we lost U.S. exclusivity for Norvasc in March 2007 and Camptosar in February 2008 and, as expected, significant
revenue declines followed. Lipitor began to face competition in the U.S. from generic pravastatin (Pravachol) and generic simvastatin (Zocor) in 2006, in addition to other competitive pressures. The volume of patients who start on or switch to
generic simvastatin continues to negatively impact Lipitor prescribing trends, particularly in the managed-care environment.      Our response:       

We will continue to highlight the benefits of our products, in terms of cost, safety and efficacy, as appropriate, as we seek to serve significantly more patients around the
world. (For detailed information about Lipitor and other significant products, see further discussion in the  Revenues Pharmaceutical Selected Product Descriptions  section of this Financial Review.)      

We took a broad look at our business model and examined it from all angles. We have evolved our Pharmaceutical operations into smaller, more focused units to anticipate and
respond more quickly to our customers  and patients  changing needs. With the formation of the Primary Care, Specialty Care, Established Products, Oncology and Emerging Markets units, we believe we can better manage our products 
growth and development throughout their entire time on the market; bring innovation to our  go to market  promotional and commercial strategies; develop ways to further enhance the value of mature products, including those close to losing
their exclusivity; expand our already substantial presence in emerging markets, and create product-line extensions where feasible.            

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                      Regulatory Environment and Pipeline Productivity        The discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our
businesses.       

We are confronted by increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy even as we continue to gather safety and other data on our products, before and after the
products have been launched.          

The opportunities for improving human health remain abundant as scientific innovation increases daily into new and more complex areas and as the extent of unmet medical needs
remains high.          

Our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their exclusivity, as well as to provide for growth.
        Our response:       

As the world s largest privately funded biopharmaceutical operation, and through our global scale, we will continue to develop and deliver innovative medicines that will
benefit patients around the world. We will continue to make the investments necessary to serve patients  needs and to generate long-term growth. For example:          

We have taken important steps to prioritize our research and development portfolio to maximize value. After a review of all our therapeutic areas, in 2008, we announced our
decision to exit certain disease areas anemia, atherosclerosis/hyperlipidemia, bone health/frailty, gastrointestinal, heart failure, liver fibrosis, muscle, obesity, osteoarthritis (disease modifying concepts only) and peripheral arterial
disease and give higher priority to the following disease areas: Alzheimer s disease, diabetes, inflammation/immunology, oncology, pain and psychoses (schizophrenia). We also will continue to work in many other disease areas, such as
asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, genitourinary, infectious diseases, ophthalmology, smoking cessation, thrombosis and transplant, among others. These decisions did not affect our portfolio of marketed products, the development of
compounds currently in Phase 3 or any launches planned over the next three years.          

We continue to review our products for potential new indications and submit them for regulatory review. For example, in 2008, we submitted a supplemental filing for a
pediatric indication to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for Geodon. (For further information about our pending new drug applications (NDAs) and supplemental filings, see further discussion in the  Revenues Major Pharmaceutical
Products Product Developments  section of this Financial Review.)          

We continue to conduct research on a significant scale that can help redefine medical practice. As of December 31, 2008, our R D pipeline includes 106 projects in
development: 84 new molecular entities and 22 product-line extensions. They span multiple therapeutic areas, and we are leveraging our status as the industry s partner of choice to expand our licensing operations. In addition, we have more than
170 projects in discovery research. During 2008, 11 new compounds were advanced from discovery research into preclinical development, 26 preclinical development candidates progressed into Phase 1 human testing and 19 Phase 1 clinical development
candidates advanced into Phase 2 proof-of-concept trials and safety studies.          

We will continue to focus on reducing attrition as a key component of our R D productivity improvement effort. For several years, we have been revising the quality
hurdles for candidates entering development, as well as throughout the development process. As the quality of candidates has improved, the development attrition rate has begun to fall. Three new molecular entities and multiple new indication
programs for in-line products advanced into Phase 3 development during 2008. We expect 15 to 20 new molecular entities and new indication programs to advance to Phase 3 during the 2008-2009 period.          

While a significant portion of R D is done internally, we will continue to seek to expand our pipeline by entering into agreements with other companies to develop,
license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. Collaboration, alliance and license agreements and acquisitions allow us to capitalize on these compounds to expand our pipeline of potential future products.

Due to our strength in marketing and our global reach, we are able to attract other organizations that may have promising compounds and that can benefit from our strength and
skills. We have more than 400 alliances across the entire spectrum of the discovery, development and commercialization process.          

In 2008, we entered into an agreement with Medivation to develop and commercialize Dimebon, Medivation s investigational drug for treatment of Alzheimer s disease
and Huntington s disease, and Auxilium, to develop and commercialize Xiaflex, a novel, late-stage biologic, for the treatment of Dupuytren s contracture and Peyronie s disease, in addition to other collaboration agreements. (See
further discussion in the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions: Acquisitions, Licensing and Collaborations  section of this Financial Review.)          

We recognize that our core strength with small molecules must be complemented by large molecules, as they involve some of the most promising R D technology and
cutting-edge science in medical research. We will expand our internal capabilities in biologics through business development where attractive opportunities become available. In January 2009, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger
agreement to acquire Wyeth, a leader in biotherapeutics and vaccines. In 2008, we acquired Encysive, a biopharmaceutical company, whose main product (Thelin) is for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. For further discussion of these
and other acquisitions we have made in biologics, see the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions: Acquisitions, Licensing and Collaborations  section of this Financial Review.          

The acquisitions of Coley in 2008 and PowderMed Ltd. (PowderMed) in 2006 are enabling us to explore vaccines across various therapeutic areas using the acquired vaccine
technology and delivery device. (See further discussion in the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions: Acquisitions, Licensing and Collaborations  section of this Financial Review.)      

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                      Changing Business Environment for Our Industry        With the business environment changing rapidly, as described above, we recognize that we must also fundamentally change the way we run our company to meet those challenges.
     As a result, we will:       

Continue to streamline our company to reduce bureaucracy and enable us to move quickly.          

Continue to restructure our cost base to drive efficiencies and enable greater agility and operating flexibility.          

Continue to evolve our research organization. We have organized our research teams around therapeutic areas, each with a Chief Scientific Officer who is accountable for the
decisions within his or her portfolio.          

Continue to revitalize our internal R D approach. We are focusing our efforts to improve productivity and give discovery and development teams more flexibility and
clearer goals, by exiting certain disease areas, such as anemia, atherosclerosis/hyperlipidemia, bone health/frailty, gastrointestinal, heart failure, liver fibrosis, muscle, obesity, osteoarthritis (disease modifying concepts only) and peripheral
arterial disease, and giving higher priority to certain other disease areas, such as Alzheimer s disease, diabetes, inflammation/immunology, oncology, pain and psychoses (schizophrenia).          

Continue to develop patient-centric areas of focus within our Pharmaceutical business through our Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Established Products and Emerging
Markets units.          

Continue to focus on business development. We have thoroughly assessed every therapeutic area, looked at gaps we have identified and accelerated programs we already have. We
are also developing opportunistic strategies concerning the best products, product candidates and technologies.          

Seek complementary opportunities in products and technologies that have the potential to leverage our capabilities and are aligned with our goals of improving health.

Continue to address the wide array of patient populations through our innovative access and affordability programs.         See further discussion in the  Our Cost-Reduction Initiatives  section of this Financial Review.      In addition to the above challenges and opportunities, we believe that there are other opportunities for revenue generation for our products, including:       

Current demographics of developed countries indicate that people are living longer and, therefore, have a growing demand for high-quality healthcare, and the most effective
medicines.          

Revising our commercial model, where appropriate, to better engage physicians and customers.          

The large number of patients within our various therapeutic categories that are untreated. For example, of the tens of millions of Americans who need medical therapy for high
cholesterol, we estimate only about 35% are actually receiving treatment.          

Refocusing the debate on health policy to address the cost of disease that remains untreated and the benefits of investing in prevention and wellness to not only improve
health, but save money.          

Developing medicines that meet medical needs; that patients will take; that physicians will prescribe; that customers will pay for; and that add the most value for Pfizer.

Stepping up our focus and investments in emerging markets by developing strategies in areas, especially Eastern Europe and Asia, where changing demographics and economics
will drive growing demand for high-quality healthcare and offer the best potential for our products.          

Worldwide emphasis on the need to find solutions to difficult problems in healthcare systems.          Our Cost-Reduction Initiatives       During 2008, we completed the cost-reduction and transformation initiatives which were launched in early
2005, broadened in October 2006 and expanded in January 2007. These initiatives were designed to increase efficiency and streamline decision-making across the company and change the way we run our business to meet the challenges of a changing
business environment, as well as take advantage of the diverse opportunities in the marketplace.      We have generated net cost reductions through site rationalization
in R D and manufacturing, streamlining organizational structures, sales force and staff function reductions, and increased outsourcing and procurement savings. These and other actions have allowed us to reduce costs in support services and
facilities. These and other initiatives are discussed below.         

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                    During 2008, we achieved a reduction of about $1.6 billion in the  Selling, informational and
administrative expenses  (SI A) pre-tax component of Adjusted income compared to 2006, on a constant currency basis (the actual foreign exchange rates in effect in 2006). In 2008 and 2007, we achieved a total net reduction of the pre-tax
total expense component of Adjusted income of $2.8 billion, compared to 2006 on a constant currency basis (the actual foreign exchange rates in effect in 2006). (For an understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted Income  section of
this Financial Review.) These cost reductions have been achieved despite inflation and compensation increases over the period.      On January 26, 2009, we announced
the implementation of a new cost-reduction initiative that we anticipate will achieve a reduction in adjusted total costs of approximately $3 billion, based on the actual foreign exchange rates in effect during 2008, by the end of 2011, compared
with our 2008 adjusted total costs. We expect that this program will be completed by the end of 2010, with full savings to be realized by the end of 2011. We plan to reinvest approximately $1 billion of these savings in the business, resulting in an
expected $2 billion net decrease compared to our 2008 adjusted total costs. (For an understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted income  section of this Financial Review.)      As part of this new cost-reduction initiative, we intend to reduce our total worldwide workforce by approximately 10%. Reductions will span sales, manufacturing, research and
development, and administrative organizations. We expect to incur costs related to this new cost-reduction initiative of approximately $6 billion, pre-tax, of which $1.5 billion was recorded in 2008.      Projects in various stages of implementation include:      Pfizer Global Research and Development
(PGRD)        

Creating a More Agile and Productive Organization  In January 2009, we announced that we plan to reduce our global research staff. We expect these reductions,
which are part of the planned 10% total workforce reduction discussed above, will be completed during 2009.         After a review of all
our therapeutic areas, in 2008, we announced our decision to exit certain disease areas anemia, atherosclerosis/hyperlipidemia, bone health/frailty, gastrointestinal, heart failure, liver fibrosis, muscle, obesity, osteoarthritis (disease
modifying concepts only) and peripheral arterial disease and give higher priority to the following disease areas: Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, inflammation/immunology, oncology, pain and psychoses (schizophrenia). We also will continue to
work in many other disease areas, such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, genitourinary, infectious diseases, ophthalmology, smoking cessation, thrombosis and transplant, among others. With a smaller, more focused research portfolio,
we will be able to devote our resources to the most valuable opportunities. These decisions did not affect our portfolio of marketed products, the development of compounds currently in Phase 3 or any launches planned over the next three years.
     In 2007, we consolidated each research therapeutic area into a single site and focused our research network by closing R D sites. Since then, we
have ceased pharmaceutical R D operations in six sites that were previously identified for exit by PGRD: Mumbai, India; Plymouth Township, Michigan; Ann Arbor, Michigan; Kalamazoo, Michigan; Nagoya, Japan; and Amboise, France. The facilities in
Mumbai, Plymouth Township and downtown Kalamazoo have been disposed of. We are under contract for sale of the entire Ann Arbor campus, with an anticipated closing in mid-2009. In mid-2008, the former Pfizer R D site in Nagoya became the base of
operations of an R D spin-off in which Pfizer retains a small interest. R D operations in Amboise have ceased and decommissioning of the R D site is now underway.      We continue to focus on reduced cycle time and improved compound survival in the drug discovery and development process. Notable cycle time improvements have been
demonstrated in the period from Compound Selection to the start of Phase 1. In addition, over the next two years, we expect to see a 25% to 33% reduction in cycle time in the period from Final Approved Protocol to Last Subject-First Visit, as new
processes and procedures are adopted for newly initiated Phase 2, 3 and 4 clinical trials. In the past couple of years, a number of steps have been taken to improve compound survival, such as rigorous analyses of the successful and unsuccessful
projects in the entire portfolio to ensure that results are captured and applied to on-going programs and to portfolio decisions.      Pfizer Global Manufacturing
(PGM)        

Supply Network Transformation  To ensure that our manufacturing facilities are aligned with current and future product needs, we are continuing to optimize
Pfizer s network of plants. We have focused on innovation and delivering value through a simplified supply network. Since 2005, 34 sites have been identified for rationalization. In addition, there have been extensive consolidations and
realignments of operations resulting in streamlined operations and staff reductions.         We are moving our global manufacturing network
into a global strategic supply network, consisting of our internal network of plants together with strategic external manufacturers, and including purchasing, packaging and distribution. As of the end of 2008, we have reduced our internal network of
plants from 93 five years ago to 46, which includes the acquisition of seven plants and the sites sold in 2006 as part of our Consumer Healthcare business. We plan to reduce our internal network of plants around the world to 41. We expect that the
cumulative impact will be a more focused, streamlined and competitive manufacturing operation, with less than 50% of our former internal plants and more than 48% fewer manufacturing employees, compared to 2003. As part of our global strategic supply
network, we currently expect to increase outsourced manufacturing of our products from approximately 17% of our products, on a cost basis, to approximately 30% over the next two to three years.      Worldwide Pharmaceutical Operations (WPO)        

Reorganization of our Field Force  As part of Pfizer s overall restructuring into smaller, more focused business units, we have changed our global field force
operations to enable us to adapt to changing market dynamics and respond to local customer needs more quickly  

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

and with more flexibility. This evolutionary process, which began in 2007, will generate savings from de-layering, eliminating duplicative work, and utilizing our
sales representative more efficiently through targeted deployment based on sophisticated segmentation analyses, offset modestly by increased investment in certain emerging markets. Between 2004 and 2008, we reduced our global field force by
approximately 13%, with approximately 10% of those reductions occurring since the beginning of 2007.         Information Technology        

Strategic Outsourcing  We have reorganized our information technology infrastructure and are also consolidating a number of third-party service providers, thereby
reducing labor costs.          

Reductions in Application Software  To achieve cost savings, we have pursued significant reductions in application software and data centers, as well as
rationalization of service providers, while enhancing our ability to invest in innovative technology opportunities to further propel our growth.         Finance        

Further Capitalizing on Shared Service Centers  To achieve cost savings, we have reduced operating costs and improved service levels by standardizing,
regionalizing and/or outsourcing certain transactional accounting activities.         Global Sourcing        

Leveraging Purchasing Power  To achieve cost savings on purchased goods and services, we have focused on rationalizing suppliers, leveraging our substantial
purchases of goods and services and improving demand management to optimize levels of outside services needed and strategic sourcing from lower-cost sources. For example, savings from demand management are being derived in part from reductions in
travel, entertainment, consulting and other external service expenses. Facilities savings are being found in site rationalization, energy conservation and renegotiated service contracts.          Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions        Acquisitions,
Licensing and Collaborations       We are committed to capitalizing on new growth opportunities by advancing our own new-product pipeline and maximizing the value of
our in-line products, as well as through opportunistic licensing, co-promotion agreements and acquisitions. Our business development strategy targets a number of growth opportunities, including biologics, vaccines, oncology, diabetes,
Alzheimer s disease, inflammation/immunology, pain, psychoses (schizophrenia) and other products and services that seek to provide valuable healthcare solutions. Some of our most significant business-development transactions since 2006 are
described below.       

On January 26, 2009, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we will acquire Wyeth in a cash-and-stock transaction valued on
that date at $50.19 per share, or a total of $68 billion. The Boards of Directors of both Pfizer and Wyeth have approved the transaction. Under the terms of the merger agreement, each outstanding share of Wyeth common stock will be converted into
the right to receive $33 in cash and 0.985 of a share of Pfizer common stock, subject to adjustment as set forth in the merger agreement. Based on the closing price of our stock on January 23, 2009, the last trading day prior to our
announcement on January 26, the stock component was valued at $17.19 per share. We expect the transaction will close at the end of the third quarter or during the fourth quarter of 2009, subject to Wyeth shareholder approval, governmental and
regulatory approvals, the satisfaction of the conditions related to the debt financing for the transaction, and other usual and customary closing conditions. We believe that the combination of Pfizer and Wyeth will create the world s premier
biopharmaceutical company and will meaningfully deliver on Pfizer s strategic priorities in a single transaction. The combined entity will be one of the most diversified in the industry and will enable us to offer patients a uniquely broad and
diversified portfolio of biopharmaceutical innovation through patient-centric units. This transaction, expected to be completed in 2009, is not reflected in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2008. We expect to achieve
savings of approximately $4 billion by the end of 2012 related solely to this transaction.         The merger agreement with Wyeth
prohibits us from making acquisitions for cash consideration in excess of $750 million in the aggregate prior to the completion of the transaction without Wyeth s consent.       

In December 2008, we entered into an agreement with Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Auxilium) to develop, commercialize and supply Xiaflex, a novel, first-in-class biologic,
for the treatment of Dupuytren s contracture and Peyronie s disease. Under the collaboration agreement with Auxilium, we will receive exclusive rights to commercialize Xiaflex in the European Union and 19 other European and Eurasian
countries. We expect to file Xiaflex for approval in Europe in 2010. Under the agreement with Auxiliium, we made an up-front payment of $75 million, which is included in  Research and development expenses . We may also make additional payments
to Auxilium of up to $410 million based upon regulatory and commercialization milestones, as well as additional milestone payments based upon the successful commercialization of the product.          

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we concluded the acquisition of a number of animal health product lines from Schering-Plough Corporation for sale in the European Economic Area
in the following categories: swine e.coli vaccines; equine influenza and tetanus vaccines; ruminant neonatal and clostridia vaccines; rabies vaccines; companion animal veterinary specialty products; and parasiticides and anti-inflammatories. The
cost of acquiring these product lines was approximately $170 million.          

In September 2008, we announced an agreement with Medivation, Inc. (Medivation) to develop and commercialize Dimebon, Medivation's investigational drug for treatment of
Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease. Following the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, the agreement went into effect in October 2008. Dimebon currently is  

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

being evaluated in a Phase 3 trial in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. Under the collaboration agreement with Medivation, we made an up-front
payment of $225 million, which is included in  Research and development expenses . We may also make additional payments of up to $500 million based upon development and regulatory milestones, as well as additional milestone payments based upon
the successful commercialization of the product.          

In the second quarter of 2008, we acquired Encysive, a biopharmaceutical company, whose main product (Thelin), for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, is
commercially available in much of the E.U., is approved in certain other markets, and is under review by the FDA. The cost of acquiring Encysive, through a tender offer and subsequent merger, was approximately $200 million, including
transaction costs. In addition, in the second quarter of 2008, we acquired Serenex, a privately held biotechnology company that owns SNX-5422, an oral Heat Shock Protein 90 (Hsp90) inhibitor currently in Phase 1 trials for the potential treatment of
solid tumors and hematological malignancies. Serenex also owns an extensive Hsp90 inhibitor compound library, which has potential uses in treating cancer and inflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases. In connection with these acquisitions, we
recorded approximately $170 million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges  and approximately $450 million in intangible assets.          

In the second quarter of 2008, we entered into an agreement with a subsidiary of Celldex for an exclusive worldwide license to CDX-110, an experimental therapeutic vaccine in
Phase 2 development for the treatment of glioblastoma multiforme, and exclusive rights to the use of EGFRvIII vaccines in other potential indications. Under the license and development agreement, an up-front payment was made. Additional
payments exceeding $390 million could potentially be made to Celldex based on the successful development and commercialization of CDX-110 and additional EGFRvIII vaccine products.          

In the first quarter of 2008, we acquired CovX, a privately held biotherapeutics company specializing in preclinical oncology and metabolic research and the developer of a
biotherapeutics technology platform that we expect will enhance our biologic portfolio. Also in the first quarter of 2008, we acquired all the outstanding shares of Coley, a biopharmaceutical company specializing in vaccines and drug candidates
designed to fight cancers, allergy and asthma disorders, and autoimmune diseases, for approximately $230 million. In connection with these and two smaller acquisitions related to Animal Health, we recorded approximately $440 million in
 Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges .          

In December 2007, we entered into a license agreement with Scil Technology Gmbh (Scil) for worldwide collaboration on Scil cartilage specific growth factor CD-RAP. Under this
agreement, Pfizer obtained a worldwide exclusive license to develop and commercialize CD-RAP. We may make payments of up to $242 million based upon development and regulatory milestones.          

In December 2007, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Adolor Corporation (Adolor) to develop and commercialize ADL5859 and ADL577, proprietary delta
opioid receptor agonist compounds for the treatment of pain. We may make payments of up to $233 million to Adolor, based on development and regulatory milestones.          

In December 2007, we entered into a research collaboration and license agreement with Taisho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Taisho) to acquire worldwide rights outside of Japan
for TS-032, a metabolic glutamate receptor agonist that may offer a new treatment option for central nervous system disorders, and is currently in pre-clinical development for the treatment of schizophrenia. We may make payments of up to $255
million to Taisho based upon development and regulatory milestones.          

In the second quarter of 2007, we entered into a collaboration agreement with BMS to further develop and commercialize apixaban, an oral anticoagulant compound discovered by
BMS. We made an initial payment to BMS of $250 million and additional payments to BMS related to product development efforts, which are included in  Research and development expenses  in 2007. We may also make additional payments of up to $780
million to BMS, based on development and regulatory milestones. In a separate agreement, we are also collaborating with BMS on the research, development and commercialization of a Pfizer discovery program, which includes preclinical compounds with
potential applications for the treatment of metabolic disorders, including diabetes. We exited research efforts in the area of obesity during the third quarter of 2008.          

In April 2007, we agreed with OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (OSI) to terminate a 2002 collaboration agreement to co-promote Macugen, for the treatment of age-related macular
degeneration (AMD), in the U.S. We also agreed to amend and restate a 2002 license agreement for Macugen, and to return to OSI all rights to develop and commercialize Macugen in the U.S. In return, OSI granted us an exclusive right to develop and
commercialize Macugen in the rest of the world.          

In the first quarter of 2007, we acquired BioRexis, a privately held biopharmaceutical company with a novel technology platform for developing new protein drug candidates,
and Embrex, an animal health company that possesses a unique vaccine delivery system known as Inovoject that improves consistency and reliability by inoculating chicks while they are still inside the egg. In connection with these and other smaller
acquisitions, we recorded $283 million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges .          

In December 2006, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Kosan Biosciences Inc. (Kosan) to develop a gastrointestinal disease treatment. In 2006, we expensed a
payment of $12 million, which was included in  Research and development expenses . Additional milestone payments of up to approximately $238 million may be made to Kosan, based upon the successful development and commercialization of a product.

In September 2006, we entered into a license agreement with Quark Biotech Inc. for exclusive worldwide rights to a compound for the treatment of neovascular (wet) AMD.

In September 2006, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with TransTech Pharma Inc. (TransTech) to develop and commercialize small- and large-molecule
compounds for treatment of Alzheimer s disease and diabetic neuropathy. Under the terms of the agreement, Pfizer received exclusive worldwide rights to TransTech s portfolio of compounds. In 2006, we expensed a payment of $101 million,
which was included in  Research and development expenses . Additional significant milestone payments may be made to TransTech, based upon the successful development and commercialization of a product.            

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

In June 2006, we entered into a license agreement with Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corporation to acquire exclusive worldwide rights to DGAT-1 inhibitors.

In June 2006, we acquired the worldwide rights to Toviaz (fesoterodine), a drug for treating overactive bladder which was approved in the E.U. in April 2007 and in the U.S.
in October 2008, from Schwarz Pharma AG.          

In March 2006, we entered into research collaborations with NicOX SA in ophthalmic disorders and NOXXON Pharma AG in Alzheimer s disease and ophthalmic disorders.

In February 2006, we completed the acquisition of the sanofi-aventis worldwide rights, including patent rights and production technology, to manufacture and sell Exubera, an
inhaled form of insulin, and the insulin-production business and facilities located in Frankfurt, Germany, previously jointly owned by Pfizer and sanofi-aventis, for approximately $1.4 billion in cash (including transaction costs). Substantially all
assets recorded in connection with this acquisition have now been written off. (See the  Our 2008 Performance: Certain Charges Exubera  section of this Financial Review.) Prior to the acquisition, in connection with our collaboration
agreement with sanofi-aventis, we recorded a research and development milestone due to us from sanofi-aventis of approximately $118 million ($71 million, after tax) in 2006 in  Research and development expenses  upon the approval of Exubera in
January 2006 by the FDA.          

In December 2006, we completed the acquisition of PowderMed, a U.K. company which specializes in the emerging science of DNA-based vaccines for the treatment of influenza and
chronic viral diseases, and in May 2006, we completed the acquisition of Rinat, a biologics company with several new central-nervous-system product candidates. In 2006, the aggregate cost of these and other smaller acquisitions was approximately
$880 million (including transaction costs). In connection with these transactions, we recorded $835 million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges .          Dispositions       We evaluate our businesses and product lines periodically for strategic fit
within our operations.      In the fourth quarter of 2006, we sold our Consumer Healthcare business for $16.6 billion, and recorded a gain of approximately $10.2 billion
($7.9 billion, net of tax) in  Gains on sales of discontinued operations net of tax  in the consolidated statement of income for 2006. In 2007, we recorded a loss of approximately $70 million, after-tax, primarily related to the resolution
of contingencies, such as purchase price adjustments and product warranty obligations, as well as pension settlements. This business was composed of:       

substantially all of our former Consumer Healthcare segment;          

other associated amounts, such as purchase-accounting impacts, acquisition-related costs and restructuring and implementation costs related to our cost-reduction initiatives
that were previously reported in the Corporate/Other segment; and          

certain manufacturing facility assets and liabilities, which were previously part of our Pharmaceutical or Corporate/Other segment but were included in the sale of the
Consumer Healthcare business. The net impact to the Pharmaceutical segment was not significant.         The results of this business are included in
 Income from discontinued operations net of tax  for 2006. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 3. Discontinued Operations. )      We
continued during 2008 and 2007, and will continue for a period of time, to generate cash flows and to report income statement activity in continuing operations that are associated with our former Consumer Healthcare business. The activities that
give rise to these impacts are transitional in nature and generally result from agreements that ensure and facilitate the orderly transfer of business operations to the new owner. Included in continuing operations for 2008 and 2007 were the
following amounts associated with these transition service agreements that will no longer occur after the full transfer of activities to the new owner:   for 2008,  Revenues  of $172 million;  Cost of sales  of $162 million; and
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses  of $3 million and for 2007,  Revenues  of $219 million;  Cost of sales  of $194 million;  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  of $15 million; and  Other
(income)/deductions net  of $16 million in income.       Our Expectations for 2009       While our revenues and income will continue to be tempered in the near term due to patent expirations and other factors, we will continue to make the investments necessary to sustain long-term growth. We remain confident that
Pfizer has the organizational strength and resilience, as well as the strategies, the financial depth and flexibility, to succeed in the long term. However, no assurance can be given that the factors described above under  Our Operating
Environment and Response to Key Opportunities and Challenges  or below under  Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results  or other significant factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business
and financial results.      Compared to 2008, our 2009 guidance, at current exchange rates, reflects increased pension expenses, lower interest income, as well as an
increase in the effective tax rate resulting from financial strategies in connection with our proposed acquisition of Wyeth.      At current exchange rates, we forecast
2009 revenues of $44.0 billion to $46.0 billion, reported diluted earnings per common share (EPS) of $1.34 to $1.49 and Adjusted diluted EPS of $1.85 to $1.95. On January 26, 2009, we announced the implementation of a new cost-reduction
initiative that we anticipate will achieve a reduction in adjusted total costs of approximately $3 billion, on a constant currency basis, by the end of 2011, compared with our 2008 adjusted total costs. We plan to reinvest approximately $1  

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                   
 billion of these savings in the business, resulting in an expected $2 billion net decrease compared to our 2008 adjusted total costs. (For an understanding of Adjusted
income, see the  Adjusted Income  section of this Financial Review.)      As referenced in this section: (i)  current exchange rates  is defined
as rates approximating foreign currency spot rates in January 2009 and (ii)  constant currency basis  is defined as the actual foreign currency exchange rates in effect during 2008. Both of these assumptions are critical elements of
our guidance and actual foreign currency rates may be materially different from these assumptions. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2008, the foreign currency exchange rates in our largest markets changed by increments ranging from 10% to 25%.
As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, we provide our guidance by reference to historical foreign currency exchange rates. We will continue to disclose the impact of these rates on our results, if material.
     Given these and other factors, a reconciliation, at current exchange rates and reflecting management s current assessment, of 2009 Adjusted income and Adjusted
diluted EPS guidance to 2009 reported Net income and reported diluted EPS guidance, follows:       

(a)     
    Does not assume the completion of any business-development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2008, and excludes
potential effects of litigation-related matters not substantially resolved as of December 31, 2008, as we do not forecast those items.      

(b)     
    For an understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted Income  section of this Financial Review.
        Our 2009 forecasted financial performance guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties as described in the
 Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results  section of this Financial Review.       Accounting Policies       We consider the following accounting policies important in understanding our operating results and financial condition. For additional accounting policies, see Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies.        Estimates and Assumptions       In preparing the consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and disclosures. These estimates and underlying
assumptions can impact all elements of our financial statements. For example, in the consolidated statement of income, estimates are used when accounting for deductions from revenues (such as rebates, chargebacks, sales returns and sales
allowances), determining cost of sales, allocating cost in the form of depreciation and amortization, and estimating restructuring charges and the impact of contingencies. On the consolidated balance sheet, estimates are used in determining the
valuation and recoverability of assets, such as accounts receivables, investments, inventories, fixed assets and intangible assets (including goodwill), and estimates are used in determining the reported amounts of liabilities, such as taxes
payable, benefit obligations, the impact of contingencies, rebates, chargebacks, sales returns and sales allowances and restructuring reserves.      We regularly evaluate
our estimates and assumptions, using historical experience and other factors, including the economic environment. Our estimates are often based on complex judgments, probabilities and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable but that are
inherently uncertain and unpredictable.      As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, our estimates and assumptions may prove to be
incomplete or inaccurate, or unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that might cause us to change those estimates and assumptions. Market conditions, such as illiquid credit markets, volatile equity markets, dramatic fluctuations in
foreign currency rates and economic recession, can increase the uncertainty already inherent in our estimates and assumptions. We adjust our estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances indicate the need for change. Those changes will be
reflected in our financial statements on a prospective basis. It is possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts. We are also
subject to other risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from estimated amounts, such as changes in the healthcare environment, competition, litigation, legislation and regulations. These and other risks and uncertainties are
discussed throughout this Financial Review, particularly in the section  Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results.        Contingencies       We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental
and tax litigations and claims; government investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Except for income tax contingencies, we record accruals for contingencies to the extent that
we conclude their occurrence is probable and that the related liabilities are estimable and we record anticipated recoveries under existing insurance contracts when assured of recovery. For tax matters, beginning in 2007 upon the adoption of a new
accounting standard, we record accruals for income tax contingencies to the extent that we conclude that a tax position is not sustainable under a  more-likely-than-not  standard and we record our estimate of the potential tax benefits in
one tax jurisdiction that could result from the payment of income taxes in another tax jurisdiction when we conclude that the potential recovery is more likely than not. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1B. Significant
Accounting Policies: New Accounting Standards  and  Note 7E. Taxes on   

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                   
  Income: Tax Contingencies. ) We consider many factors in making these assessments. Because litigation and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable and
excessive verdicts do occur, these assessments can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1C. Significant Accounting
Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ).       Acquisitions       Our consolidated
financial statements reflect an acquired business after the completion of the acquisition and are not restated. We account for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting, which requires that most assets acquired and liabilities
assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the assigned values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Amounts allocated to acquired IPR D have been expensed at the date
of acquisition. When we have acquired net assets that do not constitute a business under generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP), no goodwill has been recognized.      The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of operations.      There are several methods that can be used to determine fair value. For intangible assets, including IPR D, we typically use the  income method.  This method starts
with our forecast of all of the expected future net cash flows. These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams. Some of the more
significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the income method or other methods include:       

the amount and timing of projected future cash flows;          

the amount and timing of projected costs to develop the IPR D into commercially viable products;          

the discount rate selected to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows; and          

the assessment of the asset s life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset, including consideration of (i) any technical, legal, regulatory, or
economic barriers to entry, as well as (ii) expected changes in standards of practice for indications addressed by the asset.         Determining the
useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment, as different types of intangible assets will have different useful lives and certain assets may even be considered to have indefinite useful lives. For example, the useful life of the right
to patent associated with a pharmaceutical product s exclusive patent will be finite and will result in amortization expense being recorded in our results of operations over a determinable period. However, the useful life associated with a
brand that has no patent protection but that retains, and is expected to retain, a distinct market identity could be considered to be indefinite and the asset would not be amortized.       Revenues        Revenue Recognition  We record revenues from product sales when the goods are shipped and title passes to the
customer. At the time of sale, we also record estimates for a variety of sales deductions, such as rebates, discounts and incentives, and product returns. When we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of future product returns, we record revenues
when the risk of product return has been substantially eliminated.       Deductions from Revenues  Gross product sales are subject to a variety of deductions
that are generally estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized, and primarily represent rebates and discounts to government agencies, wholesalers, distributors and managed care organizations with respect to our
pharmaceutical products. These deductions represent estimates of the related obligations and, as such, judgment and knowledge of market conditions and practice are required when estimating the impact of these sales deductions on gross sales for a
reporting period.      Specifically,       

In the U.S., we record provisions for pharmaceutical Medicaid, Medicare and contract rebates based upon our experience ratio of rebates paid and actual prescriptions written
during prior quarters. We apply the experience ratio to the respective period s sales to determine the rebate accrual and related expense. This experience ratio is evaluated regularly to ensure that the historical trends are as current as
practicable. As appropriate, we will adjust the ratio to better match our current experience or our expected future experience. In assessing this ratio, we consider current contract terms, such as changes in formulary status and discount rates. If
our ratio is not indicative of future experience, our results could be materially affected.          

Outside the U.S., the majority of our pharmaceutical rebates, discounts and price reductions are contractual or legislatively mandated, and our estimates are based on actual
invoiced sales within each period; both of these elements help to reduce the risk of variations in the estimation process. Some European countries base their rebates on the government s unbudgeted pharmaceutical spending and we use an estimated
allocation factor (based on historical payments) and total revenues by country against our actual invoiced sales to project the expected level of reimbursement. We obtain third-party information that helps us monitor the adequacy of these accruals.
If our estimates are not indicative of actual unbudgeted spending, our results could be materially affected.          

Provisions for pharmaceutical chargebacks (primarily reimbursements to wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties) closely approximate actual as we settle
these deductions generally within two to four weeks of incurring the liability.          

Provisions for pharmaceutical returns are based on a calculation in each market that incorporates the following, as appropriate: local returns policies and practices; returns
as a percentage of sales; an understanding of the reasons for past returns; estimated shelf-life by product; and an estimate of the amount of time between shipment and return or lag time; and any other factors that could impact the estimate of
future returns, such as loss of exclusivity, product recalls, or a changing competitive environment, as appropriate.            

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

We record sales incentives as a reduction of revenues at the time the related revenues are recorded or when the incentive is offered, whichever is later. We estimate the cost
of our sales incentives based on our historical experience with similar incentives programs.         Historically, our adjustments to actual have not been
material; on a quarterly basis, they generally have been less than 1.0% of Pharmaceutical net sales and can result in a net increase to income or a net decrease to income. The sensitivity of our estimates can vary by program, type of customer and
geographic location. However, estimates associated with U.S. Medicaid and contract rebates are most at-risk for material adjustment because of the extensive time delay between the recording of the accrual and its ultimate settlement, an interval
that can range up to one year. Because of this time lag, in any given quarter, our adjustments to actual can incorporate revisions of several prior quarters.       Alliances  We have agreements to co-promote pharmaceutical products discovered by other companies. Alliance revenues are earned when our co-promotion partners ship the related product and title passes to their customer. Alliance
revenues are primarily based upon a percentage of our co-promotion partners  net sales. Expenses for selling and marketing these products are included in  Selling, informational and administrative expenses .       Long-Lived Assets       We review all of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other
intangible assets, for impairment indicators at least annually and we perform detailed impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived assets annually and for all other long-lived assets whenever impairment indicators are present. When
necessary, we record charges for impairments of long-lived assets for the amount by which the present value of future cash flows, or some other fair value measure, is less than the carrying value of these assets. Examples of those events or
circumstances that may be indicative of impairment include:       

A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset. For example, a successful challenge of our patent rights
likely would result in generic competition earlier than expected.          

A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used. For example, restrictions imposed by the FDA or other regulatory authorities could affect our
ability to manufacture or sell a product.          

A projection or forecast that demonstrates losses associated with an asset. This could include, for example, a change in a government reimbursement program that results in an
inability to sustain projected product revenues and profitability. This also could include the introduction of a competitor s product that results in a significant loss of market share or the lack of acceptance of a product by patients,
physicians and payers.         Our impairment review process is as follows:       

For finite-lived intangible assets, such as developed technology rights, whenever impairment indicators are present, we perform an in-depth review for impairment. We
calculate the undiscounted value of the projected cash flows associated with the asset, or asset group, and compare this estimated amount to the carrying amount. If the carrying amount is found to be greater, we record an impairment loss for the
excess of book value over fair value. Fair value is generally calculated by applying an appropriate discount rate to the undiscounted cash flow projections to arrive at net present value. In addition, in all cases of an impairment review, we
reevaluate the remaining useful life of the asset and modify it, as appropriate.          

For indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as brands, each year and whenever impairment indicators are present, we calculate the fair value of the asset and record an
impairment loss for the excess of book value over fair value, if any. Fair value is generally measured as the net present value of projected cash flows. In addition, in all cases of an impairment review, we reevaluate the remaining useful life of
the asset and determine whether continuing to characterize the asset as indefinite-lived is appropriate.          

For Goodwill, which includes amounts related to our Pharmaceutical and Animal Health segments, each year and whenever impairment indicators are present, we calculate the fair
value of each business segment and calculate the implied fair value of goodwill by subtracting the fair value of all the identifiable net assets other than goodwill and record an impairment loss for the excess of book value of goodwill over the
implied fair value, if any.          

For other long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, we apply procedures similar to those for finite-lived intangible assets to determine if an asset is
impaired. When necessary, we record charges for impairments of long-lived assets for the amount by which the fair value is less than the book value of these assets. Long-term investments and loans are subject to periodic impairment reviews whenever
impairment indicators are present.          

For non-current deferred tax assets, we provide a valuation allowance when we believe that our deferred tax assets are not recoverable based on an assessment of estimated
future taxable income that incorporates ongoing, prudent, feasible tax-planning strategies.         The value of intangible assets is determined primarily
using the  income method,  which starts with a forecast of all the expected future net cash flows, some of which are more certain than others. For example, the valuation of an intangible asset may include the cash flows associated with
selling the approved product throughout the world, as well as the value associated with using the developed technology in current R D projects. In this situation, the projected cash flows of the approved indications are more likely to be
achieved than the potential cash flows associated with R D projects for the currently unapproved indications. The unequal probability of realizing these cash flow streams reflects the uncertainty associated with the future benefits of individual
R D projects and those that leverage the benefits of developed technology. Accordingly, the potential for impairment for these intangible assets may exist if actual revenues are significantly less than those initially forecasted or actual
expenses are significantly more than those  

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                   
 initially forecasted. Further, an asset s expected useful life can increase estimation risk and, thus, impairment risk, as longer-lived intangibles necessarily
require longer-term forecasts it should be noted that, for some assets, these time spans can range up to 20 years or longer. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the intangible asset impairment estimation process
include: the amount and timing of projected future cash flows; the discount rate selected to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows; and the assessment of the asset s life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset,
including consideration of any technical, legal, regulatory or economic barriers to entry, as well as expected changes in standards of practice for indications addressed by the asset.      The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by first estimating the fair value of the associated business segment. To estimate the fair value of the Pharmaceutical business segment, we generally use the  market
approach,  where we compare the segment to similar businesses or  guideline  companies whose securities are actively traded in public markets or which have recently been sold in a private transaction. For the Animal Health business
segment, we generally use the  income approach,  where we use a discounted cash flow model in which cash flows anticipated over several periods, plus a terminal value at the end of that time horizon, are discounted to their present value
using an appropriate rate of return. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the goodwill impairment estimation process using the  market approach  include: the selection of appropriate guideline companies; the
determination of market value multiples for the guideline companies and the subsequent selection of an appropriate market value multiple for the business segment based on a comparison of the business segment to the guideline companies; and the
determination of applicable premiums and discounts based on any differences in ownership percentages, ownership rights, business ownership forms, or marketability between the segment and the guideline companies; and/or knowledge of the terms and
conditions of comparable transactions. When considering the  income approach,  we include the required rate of return used in the discounted cash flow method, which reflects capital market conditions and the specific risks associated with
the business segment. Other estimates inherent in the  income approach  include long-term growth rates and cash flow forecasts for the business segment.      A
single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions (see  Estimates and Assumptions,  above). The judgments made in determining an
estimate of fair value can materially impact our results of operations.       Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans       We provide defined benefit pension plans for the majority of our employees worldwide. In the U.S., we have both qualified and supplemental (non-qualified) defined benefit plans, as
well as other postretirement benefit plans, consisting primarily of healthcare and life insurance for retirees. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 13. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution
Plans. )      The accounting for benefit plans is highly dependent on actuarial estimates, assumptions and calculations, which result from a complex series of
judgments about future events and uncertainties (see  Estimates and Assumptions,  above). The assumptions and actuarial estimates required to estimate the employee benefit obligations for the defined benefit and postretirement plans, may
include discount rate; expected salary increases; certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality (life expectancy); expected return on assets; and healthcare cost trend rates. Our assumptions reflect our historical
experiences and our best judgment regarding future expectations that have been deemed reasonable by management. The judgments made in determining the costs of our benefit plans can materially impact our results of operations.      As a result of recent global financial market conditions, the fair value of the assets held in our pension plans has decreased by approximately 20%. We estimate those losses will
be amortized over the next 10 years (along with previous year s actuarial gains and losses). As a result of the amortization of these losses, as well as a lower asset base on which to earn future returns, we expect U.S. net periodic pension
benefit costs in 2009 to increase by approximately $400 million.      The following table shows the expected versus actual rate of return on plan assets and the discount
rate used to determine the benefit obligations for the U.S. qualified pension plans:       
    We reduced our expected long-term return on plan assets from 9.0% in 2007 to 8.5% in 2008 for our U.S. pension plans, which
impacts net periodic benefit cost. The decline in our expected return on plan assets reflects the modification made during late 2007 to our strategic asset target allocation to reduce the volatility of our plan funded status and the probability of
future contribution requirements. Our revised target allocation increased debt securities allocation by 10.0% and reduced global equity securities allocation by 10.0%. No further changes to the strategic asset allocation were made in 2008 and
therefore, we maintain the 8.5% expected long-term rate of return-on-assets in 2009. The assumption for the expected return-on-assets for our U.S. and international plans reflects our actual historical return experience and our long-term assessment
of forward-looking return expectations by asset classes, which is used to develop a weighted-average expected return based on the implementation of our targeted asset allocation in our respective plans. The expected return for our U.S. plans and the
majority of our international plans is applied to the fair market value of plan assets at each year end. Holding all other assumptions constant, the effect of a 0.5 percentage-point decline in the return-on-assets assumption is an increase in our
2009 U.S. qualified pension plan pre-tax expense by approximately $27 million.      The discount rate used in calculating our U.S. defined benefit plan obligations as of
December 31, 2008, is 6.4%, which represents a 0.1 percentage-point decrease from our December 31, 2007, rate of 6.5%. The discount rate for our U.S. defined benefit plans is based on a bond model constructed from a portfolio of high
quality corporate bonds rated AA or better for which the timing and  

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                   
 amount of cash flows approximate the estimated payouts of the plans. For our international plans, the discount rates are set by benchmarking against investment grade
corporate bonds rated AA or better, including where there is sufficient data, a yield curve approach. Holding all other assumptions constant, the effect of a 0.1 percentage-point decrease in the discount rate assumption is an increase in our 2009
U.S. qualified pension plans  pre-tax expense of approximately $12 million and an increase in the U.S. qualified pension plans  projected benefit obligations as of December 31, 2008, of approximately $97 million.       
     Revenues       Total revenues were $48.3
billion in 2008, essentially flat compared to 2007, primarily due to:       

an aggregate increase in revenues from Pharmaceutical products launched in the U.S. since 2006 and from many in-line products in 2008;          

the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to many foreign currencies, especially the euro, Japanese yen and Canadian dollar, which increased revenues by approximately $1.6
billion, or 3.3%, in 2008; and          

increased revenues in our Animal Health segment and other businesses of $128 million in 2008,         offset by:       

a decrease in revenues for Zytec/Zyrtec D of $1.4 billion in 2008, primarily due to the loss of U.S. exclusivity and, in connection with our divestiture of our Consumer
Healthcare business, the cessation of selling this product in late January 2008;          

an increase in rebates in 2008 due to a 2007 favorable adjustment recorded in 2007 based on the actual claims experienced under the Medicare Act, as well as the impact of our
contracting strategies with both government and non-government entities in the U.S.;          

a decrease in revenues for Lipitor in the U.S. of $863 million in 2008, primarily resulting from competitive pressures from generics, among other factors; and

an adjustment to the prior years  liabilities for product returns of $217 million recorded in the third quarter of 2008 (see the  Certain Charges: Adjustment of
Prior Years  Liabilities for Product Returns  section of this Financial Review).         In 2008, Lipitor, Norvasc (which lost U.S. exclusivity
in March 2007), Lyrica and Celebrex each delivered at least $2 billion in revenues, while Geodon/Zeldox, Zyvox, Viagra, Detrol/Detrol LA and Xalatan/Xalacom each surpassed $1 billion.         

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                    Total revenues were $48.4 billion in 2007, flat compared to 2006, primarily due to:       

an aggregate increase in revenues from Pharmaceutical products launched in the U.S. since 2005 of $2.0 billion and from many in-line products in 2007;

the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to many foreign currencies, especially the euro, U.K. pound and Canadian dollar, which increased revenues by $1.5 billion, or 3.0%,
in 2007; and          

increased revenues in our Animal Health segment and other businesses of $706 million in 2007,         offset by:       

a decrease in revenues for Lipitor in the U.S. of $654 million in 2007, primarily due to competitive pressures from generics among other factors; and

the one-time reversal of a sales deduction accrual in 2006 related to a favorable development in a pricing dispute in the U.S. of about $170 million.
        In 2007, Lipitor, Norvasc (which lost U.S. exclusivity in March 2007) and Celebrex each delivered at least $2 billion in revenues, while Lyrica,
Viagra, Detrol/Detrol LA , Xalatan/Xalacom and Zyrtec/Zytec D (which lost U.S. exclusivity in January 2008) each surpassed $1 billion.      Revenues exceeded $500 million
in each of 14 countries outside the U.S. in 2008 and in each of 12 countries outside the U.S. in 2007. The U.S. was the only country to contribute more than 10% of total revenues in each year.      Our policy relating to the supply of pharmaceutical inventory at domestic wholesalers, and in major international markets, is to maintain stocking levels under one month on average
and to keep monthly levels consistent from year to year based on patterns of utilization. We have historically been able to closely monitor these customer stocking levels by purchasing information from our customers directly, or by obtaining other
third-party information. We believe our data sources to be directionally reliable, but cannot verify their accuracy. Further, as we do not control this third-party data, we cannot be assured of continuing access. Unusual buying patterns and
utilization are promptly investigated.      Rebates reduced revenues, as follows:       
    The above rebates for 2008 were higher than 2007 and reflect:       

the impact of our contracting strategies with both government and non-government entities in the U.S.; and          

a favorable adjustment recorded in 2007 based on the actual claims experienced under the Medicare Act, which went into effect in 2006,         partially offset by:       

changes in product mix, among other factors.         Performance-based contracts
are with managed care customers, including health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted performance terms for products. Rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for
any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold. Chargebacks (primarily reimbursements to wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties) reduced revenues by $1.9 billion in 2008, $1.6 billion in 2007 and $1.4 billion in 2006.
Chargebacks were impacted by the launch of certain generic products in 2008, 2007 and 2006 by our Greenstone subsidiary.      Our accruals for Medicaid rebates, Medicare
rebates, performance-based contract rebates and chargebacks were $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2008, and are included in  Other current liabilities .         

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                     Revenues by Business Segment       We operate in the following business segments:       

Pharmaceutical           

The Pharmaceutical segment includes products that prevent and treat cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, central nervous system disorders, arthritis and pain, infectious and respiratory
diseases, urogenital conditions, cancer, eye disease and endocrine disorders, among others.         

Animal Health           

The Animal Health segment includes products that prevent and treat diseases in livestock and companion animals.         Total Revenues by Business Segment        
     Change in Revenues by Segment and Geographic Area       Worldwide revenues by segment and geographic area follow:       
     Pharmaceutical Revenues       Our
pharmaceutical business is the largest in the world. Revenues from this segment contributed approximately 91% of our total revenues in 2008, 92% of our total revenues in 2007 and 93% of our total revenues in 2006. As of September 30, 2008, nine
of our pharmaceutical products were number one in their respective therapeutic categories based on revenues.      We recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion
for each of nine products in 2008, each of eight products in 2007 and each of nine products in 2006. These products represented 60% of our Pharmaceutical revenues in 2008, 58% of our Pharmaceutical revenues in 2007 and 64% of our Pharmaceutical
revenues in 2006.      Worldwide Pharmaceutical revenues in 2008 were $44.2 billion, a decrease of 1% compared to 2007, primarily due to:       

a decrease in revenues for Zyrtec/Zyrtec D of $1.4 billion in 2008, primarily due to the loss of U.S. exclusivity and, in connection with our divestiture of our Consumer
Healthcare business, the cessation of selling this product in late January 2008;          

an increase in rebates in 2008 due to a 2007 favorable adjustment recorded in 2007 based on the actual claims experienced under the Medicare Act, as well as the impact of our
contracting strategies with both government and non-government entities in the U.S.;          

a decrease in revenues for Lipitor in the U.S. of $863 million in 2008, primarily resulting from competitive pressures from generics, among other factors; and

an adjustment to the prior years  liabilities for product returns of $217 million recorded in 2008 (see the  Certain Charges: Adjustment of Prior Years 
Liabilities for Product Returns  section of this Financial Review),         partially offset by:       

an aggregate increase in revenues from products launched in the U.S. since 2006, particularly Sutent, and from many in-line products, including Lyrica, which increased 41% in
2008; and          

the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to many foreign currencies, especially the euro, Japanese yen and Canadian dollar, which increased Pharmaceutical revenues by
approximately $1.5 billion, or 3.3%, in 2008.            

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                    Geographically:       

in the U.S., Pharmaceutical revenues in 2008 decreased 13% compared to 2007, primarily due to the effect of the loss of exclusivity on Norvasc, Zyrtec/Zyrtec D and Camptosar,
an adjustment to the prior years  liabilities for product returns (approximately $160 million) recorded in the third quarter of 2008, higher rebates, lower sales of Lipitor, and lower sales of Chantix following the changes to its U.S. label in
2008, partially offset by the increase in revenues from products launched since 2006, except for Chantix, and from many in-line products; and          

in our international markets, Pharmaceutical revenues in 2008 increased 11% compared to 2007, primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange on international
revenues of approximately $1.5 billion (6.5%) in 2008, revenues from some of our products launched since 2006, as well as growth of certain in-line products, partially offset by an adjustment to the prior years  liabilities for product
returns (approximately $60 million) recorded in the third quarter of 2008.         During 2008, international Pharmaceutical revenues grew to represent
57.3% of total Pharmaceutical revenues, compared to 51.5% in 2007. This increase has been fueled by higher volumes and the favorable impact of foreign exchange, despite pricing pressures in international markets.      Effective January 3, 2009, August 1, 2008, May 2, 2008, January 1, 2008, July 13, 2007 and January 1, 2007, we increased the
published prices for certain U.S. pharmaceutical products. These price increases had no material effect on wholesaler inventory levels in comparison to the prior year.       

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                     Revenues Major Pharmaceutical Products       Revenue information for several of our major Pharmaceutical products follows:       
     Pharmaceutical Selected Product Descriptions        

Lipitor,  for the treatment of elevated LDL-cholesterol levels in the blood, is the most widely used prescription treatment for lowering cholesterol and the
best-selling pharmaceutical product of any kind in the world. Lipitor recorded worldwide revenues of $12.4 billion in 2008, a decrease of 2% compared to 2007 despite the favorable impact of foreign exchange, which increased revenues by approximately
$310 million, or 2%. In the U.S., revenues of $6.3 billion in 2008 declined 12% compared to 2007. Internationally, Lipitor revenues in 2008 increased 11% compared to 2007, with 6% due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange.

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                    The decrease in Lipitor worldwide revenues in 2008 compared to 2007 was driven by a
combination of factors, including the following:       

the impact of an intensely competitive lipid-lowering market, with competition from multi-source generic simvastatin and branded products in the U.S.;

increased payer pressure in the U.S.; and          

slower growth in the lipid-lowering market, due in part to a slower rate of growth in the Medicare Part D population and heightened overall patient cost-sensitivity in the
U.S., resulting in a softening overall market demand,         partially offset by:       

the favorable impact of foreign exchange; and          

operational growth internationally.         See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for a discussion of recent developments with respect to certain patent and product litigation relating to Lipitor.       

Norvasc,  for treating hypertension, lost exclusivity in the U.S. in March 2007. Norvasc also experienced patent expirations in most other major markets, with the
exception of Canada. Norvasc worldwide revenues in 2008 decreased 25% compared to 2007.         See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for a discussion of recent developments with respect to certain patent litigation relating to Norvasc.       

Chantix/Champix,  the first new prescription treatment to aid smoking cessation in nearly a decade, became available to patients in the U.S. in August 2006 and in
select E.U. markets in December 2006 and has been launched in all major markets. Chantix/Champix has been prescribed to more than ten million patients globally since its launch. Chantix/Champix recorded worldwide revenues of $846 million in 2008, a
decrease of 4% compared to 2007. In the U.S., revenues of $489 million in 2008 declined 30% compared to the same period in 2007 following changes to the Chantix U.S. label during 2008. Internationally, revenues of $357 million in 2008 increased 95%
compared to 2007, due primarily to launches in additional countries and continued growth in the U.K., Spain, Canada, Belgium and Japan.         In January 2008, we added a warning to Chantix s label in the U.S. that patients who are attempting to quit smoking by taking Chantix should be observed by a physician for neuropsychiatric symptoms like changes in behavior, agitation,
depressed mood, suicidal ideation and suicidal behavior. A causal relationship between Chantix and these reported symptoms has not been established.      In May 2008, we updated the Chantix label in the U.S. to provide further guidance about the use of Chantix. The updated label advises that patients should stop taking Chantix and contact their healthcare provider immediately if agitation,
depressed mood, or changes in behavior that are not typical for them are observed, or if they develop suicidal thoughts or suicidal behavior.      U.S.
prescription trends and U.S. revenues for Chantix have declined following the addition of the warnings to the product s label in the U.S. We are continuing our educational and promotional efforts, which are focused on the Chantix benefit-risk
proposition, the significant health consequences of smoking and the importance of the physician-patient dialogue in helping patients quit smoking. In September 2008, the U.S. branded direct-to-consumer campaign was relaunched with print, television
and web advertising.      See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for a discussion of
recent developments with respect to certain product litigation relating to Chantix.       

Caduet , a single pill therapy combining Norvasc and Lipitor, recorded worldwide revenues of $589 million, an increase of 4% for 2008, compared to 2007, due primarily
to growth in new launch countries, partially offset by lower revenues in the U.S., due to the introduction of generic amlodipine besylate and increased competition in the hypertension market. A more focused message platform and highly targeted
consumer campaign have recently stabilized the rate of new patient starts in the U.S.          

Lyrica , indicated for the management of post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN), diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) and fibromyalgia, and as adjunctive therapy for adult
patients with partial onset seizures in the U.S., and for neuropathic pain and general anxiety disorder (GAD) outside the U.S., recorded worldwide revenues of $2.6 billion in 2008, an increase of 41% compared to 2007. In June 2007, Lyrica was
approved in the U.S. for the management of fibromyalgia, one of the most common chronic, widespread pain conditions, which affects more than five million Americans. Lyrica is the leading branded treatment for fibromyalgia, PHN and DPN in the U.S.
        In July 2008, an FDA advisory committee concurred with the FDA's finding of a potential increased signal regarding suicidal
thoughts and behavior for the class of 11 epilepsy drugs reviewed, including Lyrica and Neurontin. However, the committee determined that the available data did not warrant black box labeling as had been recommended by the FDA. We are confident in
the efficacy and safety profile of Lyrica and Neurontin for their approved indications. We have conducted an extensive review of controlled clinical trials and post-marketing reports for both medicines, which showed no evidence of an increased
signal  

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                   
 regarding suicidal thoughts and behavior. We are working closely with the FDA to update the labeling for these products and we hope that the labeling change will
further facilitate important dialogue between patients and their doctors when considering treatment options.       

Geodon/Zeldox , a psychotropic agent, is a dopamine and serotonin receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia and acute manic or mixed episodes
associated with bipolar disorder. It is available in both an oral capsule and rapid-acting intramuscular formulation. In 2008, Geodon worldwide revenues grew 18%, compared to 2007. Geodon is supported by Pfizer's recently launched psychiatric field
force and Geodon's efficacy and favorable tolerability and metabolic profiles.          

Celebrex,  a treatment for the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis and acute pain in adults, experienced a 9% increase in worldwide revenues
to $2.5 billion in 2008, supported by continued educational and promotional efforts highlighting Celebrex s efficacy and safety profile.         See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for a discussion of recent developments with respect to certain patent and product litigation relating to Celebrex.

Zyvox  is the world s best-selling branded agent for the treatment of certain serious Gram-positive pathogens, including Methicillin-Resistant
Staphylococcus-Aureus (MRSA). MRSA remains a serious and growing threat in hospitals and the community. Zyvox is an excellent first-line choice for the treatment of adults and children with complicated skin and skin structure infections and
nosocomial pneumonia due to known or suspected MRSA. Zyvox is the only FDA approved agent for MRSA that offers intravenous and oral formulations for these indications. Its unique mechanism of action minimizes the potential for cross-resistance. To
date, more than three million patients have been treated worldwide. Zyvox worldwide sales grew 18% to $1.1 billion in 2008.          

Selzentry/Celsentri  (maraviroc tablets), a CCR5 antagonist, is the first in a new class of oral HIV medicines in more than a decade known as CCR5 antagonists. CCR5
antagonists work by blocking the CCR5 co-receptor, the virus  predominant entry route into T-cells. Selzentry/Celsentri stops the R5 virus on the outside surface of the cells before it enters, rather than fighting the virus inside, as do all
other classes of oral HIV medicines. Selzentry/Celsentri was approved in the U.S. and in Europe in 2007 and in Japan in 2008, and is indicated for combination anti-retroviral treatment of treatment-experienced adults infected with only CCR5-tropic
HIV-1, who have evidence of viral replication and have HIV-1 strains resistant to multiple anti-retroviral agents. A diagnostic test confirms whether a patient is infected with CCR5-tropic HIV-1, which is also known as  R5-virus.  We
accelerated the Selzentry/Celsentri development program to make it available to patients in need. Performance has been driven by increased access and reimbursement of tropism testing, targeted promotion and combination therapy with new agents.

Viagra  remains the leading treatment for erectile dysfunction and one of the world s most recognized pharmaceutical brands after more than a decade. Viagra
worldwide revenues grew 10% in 2008, compared to 2007.         See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 19. Legal
Proceedings and Contingencies  for a discussion of recent developments with respect to certain product litigation relating to Viagra.       

Detrol/Detrol LA,  a muscarinic receptor antagonist, is the most prescribed branded medicine worldwide for overactive bladder. Detrol LA is an extended-release
formulation taken once a day. Detrol/Detrol LA worldwide revenues grew 2% to $1.2 billion in 2008, compared to 2007.         See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for a discussion of recent developments with respect to certain patent litigation relating to Detrol/Detrol LA.       

Sutent,  for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, including metastatic renal cell carcinoma, and gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) after disease
progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate, was launched in the U.S. in January 2006. It has now been launched in all major markets, including Japan, where it was approved in April 2008 for the treatment of GIST, after failure of imatinib
treatment due to resistance, and for renal cell carcinoma not indicated for curative resection and mRCC. Sutent recorded worldwide revenues of $847 million in 2008, an increase of 46% compared to 2007. We continue to drive growth in the U.S. and
internationally, supported by cost-effectiveness data and efficacy data in first-line mRCC including 2-year survival data, which represents the first time overall survival of two years has been seen in the treatment of advanced kidney cancer,
as well as through strong promotional efforts and the promotion of access and health care coverage. As of September 30, 2008, Sutent was the best-selling medicine in the world for the treatment of first-line mRCC.      

Camptosar,  indicated as first-line therapy for metastatic colorectal cancer in combination with 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin, lost exclusivity in the U.S. in February
2008. It is also indicated for patients in whom metastatic colorectal cancer has recurred or progressed following initial fluorouracil-based therapy. Camptosar is for intravenous use only. Camptosar worldwide revenues decreased 42% to $563 million
in 2008, compared to 2007.          

Xalatan , a prostaglandin, is the world s leading branded agent to reduce elevated eye pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
Xalatan's proven clinical benefits and studies demonstrating long-term safety should support the continued growth of this important medicine.  Xalacom,  a fixed combination prostaglandin (Xalatan) and beta blocker (timolol), is available
outside the U.S. Xalatan/Xalacom worldwide revenues grew 9% in 2008, compared to 2007.          

Genotropin , the world s leading human growth hormone, is used in children for the treatment of short stature with growth hormone deficiency, Prader-Willi
Syndrome, Turner Syndrome, Small for Gestational Age Syndrome, Idiopathic Short Stature (in the U.S. only) and Chronic Renal Insufficiency (outside the U.S. only), as well as in adults with growth hormone deficiency. Genotropin worldwide revenues
grew 6% in 2008 to $898 million, compared to 2007, driven by its broad platform of innovative injection-delivery devices.            

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

Zyrtec/Zyrtec D  allergy medicines experienced a 92% decline in worldwide revenues in 2008 compared to 2007, following the loss of U.S. exclusivity in January 2008.
Since we sold our rights to market Zyrtec/Zyrtec D over-the-counter in connection with the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business, we ceased selling this product in late January 2008.          

Alliance revenues reflect revenues primarily associated with our co-promotion of Aricept, Rebif and Spiriva.          

Aricept , discovered and developed by our alliance partner Eisai Co., Ltd, is the world s leading medicine to treat symptoms of Alzheimer s disease. See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for a discussion of certain patent litigation relating to Aricept.         

Rebif , discovered and developed by EMD Serono, Inc. (Serono), is used to treat symptoms of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. Pfizer co-promotes Rebif with Serono in the U.S.

Spiriva , discovered and developed by our alliance partner Boehringer Ingelheim, is used to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, a chronic respiratory disorder that includes
chronic bronchitis and emphysema.        Alliances allow us to co-promote or license these products for sale in certain countries. Under the
co-promotion agreements, these products are marketed and promoted with our alliance partners. We provide funding through cash, staff and other resources to sell, market, promote and further develop these products.       Product Developments       We continue to invest in R D to provide future sources of
revenues through the development of new products, as well as through additional uses for existing in-line and alliance products, and we have taken important steps to prioritize our research and development portfolio to maximize value. After a review
of all our therapeutic areas, in 2008, we announced our decision to exit certain disease areas anemia, atherosclerosis/hyperlipidemia, bone health/frailty, gastrointestinal, heart failure, liver fibrosis, muscle, obesity, osteoarthritis
(disease modifying concepts only) and peripheral arterial disease and give higher priority to the following disease areas: Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, inflammation/immunology, oncology, pain and psychoses (schizophrenia). We also will
continue to work in many other disease areas, such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, genitourinary, infectious diseases, ophthalmology, smoking cessation, thrombosis and transplant, among others. These decisions did not affect our
portfolio of marketed products, the development of compounds currently in Phase 3 or any launches planned over the next three years. Notwithstanding our efforts, there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for
additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development. Below are significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the FDA and regulatory authorities in the E.U. and Japan.       

Recent FDA approvals:    
 
  PRODUCT  
      
  INDICATION  
     
  DATE APPROVED   
 
  Toviaz (fesoterodine)  
      
  Treatment of overactive bladder  
     
  October 2008   
 
  Zmax  
      
  Community-acquired pneumonia Pediatric filing  
     
  October 2008   

Pending U.S. new drug applications (NDAs) and supplemental filings:    
 
  PRODUCT  
      
  INDICATION  
     
  DATE SUBMITTED   
 
  Selzentry (maraviroc)  
      
  HIV in treatment-na ve patients  
     
  December 2008   
 
  Geodon  
      
  Maintenance treatment of bipolar mania  
     
  December 2008   
 
  Geodon  
      
  Treatment of bipolar disorders Pediatric filing  
     
  October 2008   
 
  Fablyn (lasofoxifene)  
      
  Treatment of osteoporosis  
     
  December 2007   
 
  Spiriva  
      
  Respimat device for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease  
     
  November 2007   
 
  Zmax  
      
    Treatment of bacterial infections sustained release acute otitis media (AOM) and
sinusitis Pediatric filing   
     
  November 2006   
 
  Vfend  
      
  Treatment of fungal infections Pediatric filing  
     
  June 2005   
 
  Thelin  
      
  Treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH)  
     
  May 2005   
    We received  not-approvable  letters from the FDA for Fablyn (lasofoxifene) for the prevention of post-menopausal
osteoporosis in September 2005 and for the treatment of vaginal atrophy in January 2006. We submitted a new NDA for the treatment of osteoporosis in post-menopausal women in December 2007, including the three-year interim data from the
Postmenopausal Evaluation And Risk-reduction with Lasofoxifene (PEARL) study in support of the new NDA. In September 2008, nine of the 13 members of an FDA advisory committee concluded that there is a population of women with post-menopausal
osteoporosis for which the benefit of treatment with Fablyn is likely to outweigh the risks. In January 2009, we received a  complete response  letter from the FDA for the Fablyn submission. The FDA is seeking additional data and we are
working with the FDA to determine the appropriate next steps regarding our application.      In September 2008, we received a  complete response  letter from
the FDA for the Spiriva Respimat submission. The FDA is seeking additional data and we are working with the FDA to provide the additional information.         

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                    In September 2007, we received an "approvable" letter from the FDA for Zmax that sets forth
requirements to obtain approval for the pediatric AOM indication based on pharmacokinetic data. A supplemental filing for pediatric AOM and sinusitis remains under review.      In December 2005, we received an "approvable" letter from the FDA for our Vfend pediatric filing, which sets forth the additional requirements for approval. We have been systematically working through these requirements and addressing the
FDA's concerns, including initiating an additional pharmacokinetics study in November 2008.      In June 2008, we completed the acquisition of Encysive, whose main
product is Thelin. In June 2007, Encysive received a third "approvable" letter from the FDA for Thelin for the treatment of PAH. We began an additional Phase 3 clinical trial in patients with PAH during the fourth quarter of 2008 to address the
concerns of the FDA regarding efficacy as reflected in that letter.      In September 2008, we announced that we would globally withdraw all dalbavancin marketing
applications for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure gram-positive bacterial infections in adults, including the U.S. NDA and the European marketing authorization application. We plan to conduct an additional Phase 3 clinical trial
to support planned future regulatory submissions. A pediatric program with dalbavancin is also planned.       

Regulatory approvals and filings in the E.U. and Japan:    
 
  PRODUCT  
      
  DESCRIPTION OF EVENT  
     
  DATE APPROVED  
     
  DATE SUBMITTED   
 
  Zithromac  
      
  Approval in Japan for bacterial infections  
     
  January 2009  

Celsentri (maraviroc)  
      
  Application submitted in the E.U. for HIV in treatment-na ve patients  

January 2009   

Approval in Japan for HIV in treatment-experienced patients  
     
  December 2008  

Genotropin  
      
  Approval in Japan for treatment of short stature/growth problems  
     
  December 2008  

Geodon  
      
  Application submitted in the E.U. for pediatric bipolar disorders  

October 2008   
 
  rifabutin  
      
  Approval in Japan for mycobacterium infection  
     
  July 2008  

Macugen  
      
  Approval in Japan for treatment of age-related macular degeneration  
     
  July 2008  

Lyrica  
      
  Application submitted in Japan for the treatment of pain associated with post-herpetic neuralgia  

May 2008   

Application submitted in the E.U. for the treatment of fibromyalgia  

March 2008   
 
  Sutent  
      
  Approval in Japan for treatment of mRCC and GIST  
     
  April 2008  

Xalacom  
      
  Application submitted in Japan for the treatment of glaucoma  

February 2008   
 
  sildenafil  
      
  Approval in Japan for treatment of PAH  
     
  January 2008  

Fablyn (lasofoxifene) (a)   
      
  Application submitted in the E.U. for the treatment of osteoporosis  

January 2008   
 
  Chantix/Champix  
      
  Approval in Japan as an aid to smoking cessation  
     
  January 2008  

Caduet  
      
  Application submitted in Japan for hypertension  

November 2007   
 
  Celebrex  
      
  Application submitted in Japan for treatment of lower-back pain  

February 2007   

(a)     
    In December 2008, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) issued a positive opinion recommending that the
European Commission grant marketing authorization for Fablyn (lasofoxifene) as a treatment for osteoporosis in post-menopausal women at increased risk of fracture in Europe.          

Ongoing or planned clinical trials for additional uses and dosage forms for our in-line products
include:    
 
        PRODUCT   
      
  INDICATION   
 
  Celebrex  
      
  Acute gouty arthritis   
 
  Eraxis/Vfend Combination    
      
  Aspergillosis fungal infections   
 
  Lyrica  
      
  Epilepsy monotherapy; post-operative pain; GAD; restless legs syndrome   
 
  Macugen  
      
  Diabetic macular edema   
 
  Revatio  
      
  Pediatric pulmonary arterial hypertension   
 
  Sutent  
      
  Breast cancer; colorectal cancer; non-small cell lung cancer; prostate cancer; liver cancer   
 
  Zithromax/chloroquine  
      
  Malaria   
    New drug candidates in late-stage development include: axitinib, a multi-targeted kinase inhibitor for the treatment of renal
cell carcinoma; Dimebon, a novel mitochondrial protectant and enhancer being developed in partnership with Medivation for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease; CP-751871, an anti-insulin-like growth factor receptor 1 (IGF1R) human monoclonal
antibody for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer; dalbavancin, for the treatment of skin and skin structure infections; tanezumab, an anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain; and apixaban, for the prevention
and treatment of venous thromboembolism and the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation, which is being developed in collaboration with BMS.         

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                    In February 2009, we terminated the development programs for PD-332334, an alpha2delta ligand compound
for the treatment of GAD, and esreboxetine, for the treatment of fibromyalgia, because it was considered unlikely that either compound would provide meaningful benefit to patients beyond the current standard of care.      In January 2009, we terminated the development program for axitinib, a multi-targeted kinase inhibitor, for the treatment of pancreatic cancer, after the review of interim data
showed that the trial would not demonstrate superiority to the current standard of care.      In November 2008, we terminated the development program for CP-945,598, a
cannabinoid-1 receptor antagonist for the treatment of obesity, based on changing regulatory perspectives on the benefit-risk profile of the cannabinoid-1 class and likely new regulatory requirements for approval.      In April 2008, we announced the discontinuation of a Phase 3 clinical trial of single-agent tremelimumab (CP-675,206), an anti-CTLA4 monoclonal antibody, in patients with advanced
melanoma, after the review of interim data showed that the trial would not demonstrate superiority to standard chemotherapy.      Additional product-related programs are
in various stages of discovery and development. Also, see the discussion in the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions: Acquisitions, Licensing and Collaborations  section of this Financial Review.       Animal Health       Revenues of our Animal Health business follow:       
    Our Animal Health business is one of the largest in the world.      The increase in Animal Health revenues in 2008, compared to 2007, was primarily attributable to:       

for livestock products, the continued good performance of our cattle biologicals and intramammaries franchises in 2008;          

for companion animal products, the good performances of Revolution (a parasiticide for dogs and cats), and new product launches, such as Convenia ( first-in-class single-dose
treatment antibiotic therapy for dogs and cats), Cerenia (treatment and prevention of vomiting in dogs) and Improvac (boar taint vaccine for pigs); and          

the favorable impact of foreign exchange, which increased revenues by 3%.         The increase in Animal Health revenues in 2007, compared to 2006, was primarily attributable to:       

for livestock products, the continued good performance of our cattle biologicals and intramammaries franchises in 2007, as well as revenues from Embrex, which we acquired in
the first quarter of 2007;          

for companion animal products, the good performances of Revolution; Rimadyl (for treatment of pain and inflammation associated with canine osteoarthritis and soft-tissue
orthopedic surgery); and new product launches, such as Convenia, Slentrol (weight management for dogs) and Cerenia; and          

the favorable impact of foreign exchange, which increased revenues by 5%.          Costs and Expenses        Cost of Sales       Cost of sales decreased
28% in 2008, while revenues were essentially flat in 2008, and cost of sales increased 47% in 2007, while revenues were flat in 2007. Cost of sales as a percentage of revenues decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 and increased in 2007 compared to
2006.      Cost of sales in 2008, compared to 2007, decreased as a result of:       

asset impairment charges, write-offs and other exit costs associated with Exubera of $2.6 billion recorded in 2007 (see the  Our 2008 Performance: Certain
Charges Exubera  section of this Financial Review);          

savings related to our cost-reduction initiatives; and          

the favorable impact of foreign exchange on expenses,            

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                    partially offset by:       
    Cost of sales in 2007, compared to 2006, increased as a result of:       

asset impairment charges, write-offs and other exit costs associated with Exubera of $2.6 billion recorded in 2007 (see the  Our 2008 Performance: Certain
Charges Exubera  section of this Financial Review);          

the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange on expenses;          

costs of $194 million for 2007, related to business transition activities associated with the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business, completed in December 2006,
        partially offset by:       

savings related to our cost-reduction initiatives.          Selling,
Informational and Administrative (SI A) Expenses       SI A expenses decreased 7% in 2008, compared to 2007, which reflects:       

savings related to our cost-reduction initiatives; and          

charges associated with Exubera of $85 million recorded in 2007 (see the  Our 2008 Performance: Certain Charges Exubera  section of this Financial Review),
        partially offset by:       

the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange on expenses; and          
    SI A expenses in 2007 were comparable to 2006, which reflects:       

savings related to our cost-reduction initiatives,         offset by:

the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange on expenses;          

charges associated with Exubera of $85 million recorded in 2007 (see the  Our 2008 Performance: Certain Charges Exubera  section of this Financial Review).
         Research and Development (R D) Expenses       R D
expenses decreased 2% in 2008, compared to 2007, which reflects:       

the up-front payment to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) of $250 million and additional payments to BMS related to product development efforts, in connection with our
collaboration to develop and commercialize apixaban, recorded in 2007;          

exit costs, such as contract termination costs, associated with Exubera of $100 million recorded in 2007 (see the  Our 2008 Performance: Certain
Charges Exubera  section of this Financial Review); and          

savings related to our cost-reduction initiatives,            

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                    partially offset by:       

the up-front payment to Medivation of $225 million in connection with our collaboration to develop and commercialize Dimebon, recorded in 2008; and

higher R D spending in 2008 related to clinical trials for our expanded Phase 3 portfolio.         R D expenses increased 6% in 2007, compared to 2006, which reflects:       

the up-front payment to BMS of $250 million and additional payments to BMS related to product development efforts, in connection with our collaboration to develop and
commercialize apixaban, recorded in 2007;          

the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange on expenses;          

a one-time R D milestone due to us from sanofi-aventis (approximately $118 million) recorded in 2006; and          

exit costs, such as contract termination costs, associated with Exubera of $100 million recorded in 2007 (see the  Our 2008 Performance: Certain
Charges Exubera  section of this Financial Review),         partially offset by:       

savings related to our cost-reduction initiatives.         R D expenses
also include payments for intellectual property rights of $377 million in 2008, $603 million in 2007 and $292 million in 2006. (For further discussion, see the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions: Acquisitions,
Licensing and Collaborations  section of this Financial Review.)       Acquisition-Related In-Process Research and Development Charges       The estimated value of acquisition-related IPR D is expensed at the acquisition date. In 2008, we expensed $633 million of IPR D, primarily related to our acquisitions of
Serenex, Encysive, CovX, Coley and a number of animal health product lines from Schering-Plough Corporation, as well as two smaller acquisitions also related to Animal Health. In 2007, we expensed $283 million of IPR D, primarily related to our
acquisitions of BioRexis and Embrex. In 2006, we expensed $835 million of IPR D, primarily related to our acquisitions of Rinat and PowderMed.       Cost-Reduction
Initiatives       In connection with our cost-reduction and transformation initiatives launched in early 2005, broadened in October 2006 and expanded in January 2007,
to change the way we run our business to meet the challenges of a changing business environment and take advantage of the diverse opportunities in the marketplace, our management performed a comprehensive review of our processes, organizations,
systems and decision-making procedures in a company-wide effort to improve performance and efficiency. We are generating net cost reductions through site rationalization in R D and manufacturing, streamlined organizational structures, sales
force and staff function reductions, and increased outsourcing and procurement savings.      In 2008 and 2007, we achieved a total net reduction of the pre-tax total
expense component of Adjusted income of $2.8 billion, compared to 2006 on a constant currency basis (the actual foreign exchange rates in effect in 2006). (For an understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted Income  section of this
Financial Review.)      The actions associated with the expanded cost-reduction initiatives resulted in restructuring charges, such as asset impairments, exit costs and
severance costs (including any related impacts to our benefit plans, including settlements and curtailments) and associated implementation costs, such as accelerated depreciation charges, primarily associated with supply network transformation
efforts, and expenses associated with system and process standardization and the expansion of shared services worldwide. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 5. Cost-Reduction Initiatives. ) The strengthening of the euro
and other currencies relative to the dollar, while favorable on  Revenues , has had an adverse impact on our total expenses ( Cost of sales, Selling, administrative and informational expenses,  and  Research and development
expenses ), including the reported impact of these cost-reduction efforts.      On January 26, 2009, we announced the implementation of a new cost-reduction
initiative that we anticipate will achieve a reduction in adjusted total costs of approximately $3 billion, at 2008 actual foreign exchange rates, by the end of 2011, compared with our 2008 adjusted total costs. We expect that this program will be
completed by the end of 2010, with full savings to be realized by the end of 2011. We plan to reinvest approximately $1 billion of these savings in the business, resulting in an expected $2 billion net decrease compared to our 2008 adjusted total
costs. (For an understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted income  section of this Financial Review).         

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                    As part of this new cost-reduction initiative, we intend to reduce our total worldwide workforce by
approximately 10%. Reductions will span sales, manufacturing, research and development, and administrative organizations. We expect to incur costs related to this new cost-reduction initiative of approximately $6 billion, pre-tax, of which $1.5
billion was recorded in 2008.      We incurred the following costs in connection with all of our cost-reduction initiatives:       

(a)     
    For 2008, included in  Cost of sales  ($745 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($413
million),  Research and development expenses  ($433 million) and  Other (income)/deductions  net ($14 million). For 2007, included in  Cost of sales  ($700 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($334
million),  Research and development expenses  ($416 million) and  Other (income)/deductions  net ($61 million income). For 2006, included in  Cost of sales  ($392 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses
 ($243 million),  Research and development expenses  ($176 million) and  Other (income)/deductions net  ($23 million income).      

(b)     
    Included in  Restructuring charges and acquisition-related costs .         From the beginning of the cost-reduction and transformation initiatives in 2005 through December 31, 2008, the restructuring charges primarily relate to our supply network
transformation efforts and the restructuring of our worldwide marketing and research and development operations, and the implementation costs primarily relate to accelerated depreciation of certain assets, as well as system and process
standardization and the expansion of shared services.      The components of restructuring charges associated with all of our cost-reduction initiatives follow:
      
    From the beginning of the cost-reduction and transformation initiatives in 2005 through December 31, 2008,  Employee
termination costs  represent the expected reduction of the workforce by 30,700 employees, mainly in manufacturing, sales and research; and approximately 19,500 of these employees have been terminated.  Employee termination costs  are
recorded when the actions are probable and estimable and include accrued severance benefits, pension and postretirement benefits.  Asset impairments  primarily include charges to write down property, plant and equipment.  Other  primarily
includes costs to exit certain activities.       Other (Income)/Deductions Net       In 2008, we recorded charges of approximately $2.3 billion resulting from an agreement in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice to resolve the previously reported investigation regarding allegations of past off-label promotional
practices concerning Bextra, as well as certain other open investigations, and charges of approximately $900 million related to agreements and agreements in principle to resolve certain NSAID litigation and claims (see the  Our 2008
Performance: Certain Charges Bextra and Certain Other Investigations and Certain Charges Certain Product Litigation Celebrex and Bextra  sections of this Financial Review). Also in 2008, we recorded lower net interest income of
$772 million, compared to $1.1 billion in 2007, due primarily to lower average net financial assets, reflecting proceeds of $16.6 billion from the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business in late December 2006, and lower interest rates, which were
partially offset by the receipt of a one-time cash payment of $425 million, pre-tax, in exchange for the termination of a license agreement, including the right to receive future royalties.      In 2007, we recorded higher net interest income of $1.1 billion compared to $437 million in 2006, due primarily to higher average net financial assets during 2007, reflecting
proceeds of $16.6 billion from the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business, and higher interest rates. Also in 2007, we recorded a gain of $211 million related to the sale of a building in Korea. In 2006, we recorded a charge of $320 million
related to the impairment of our Depo-Provera intangible asset. See also Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 6. Other (Income)/Deductions Net .       Provision for Taxes on Income       Our overall effective tax rate for continuing operations was 17.0% in 2008, 11.0% in 2007 and 15.3% in 2006. The tax
rate in 2008 reflects the impact of the agreements and the agreements in principle to resolve certain legal matters in 2008, which are either not deductible or deductible at lower tax rates, higher acquired IPR D expenses in 2008, which are
primarily not deductible for tax purposes, and the change in the jurisdictional mix of income, partially offset by the tax benefits discussed below.      In the second
quarter of 2008, we effectively settled certain issues common among multinational corporations with various foreign tax authorities primarily relating to years 2000 through 2005. As a result, we recognized $305 million in tax benefits. Also, in
the  

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                   
 second quarter of 2008, we sold one of our biopharmaceutical companies, Esperion Therapeutics, Inc. (Esperion), to a newly formed company that is majority-owned by a
group of venture capital firms. The sale, for nominal consideration, resulted in a loss for tax purposes that reduced our tax expense by $426 million. This tax benefit is a result of the significant initial investment in Esperion in 2004,
primarily reported on the consolidated statement of income as  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges  at acquisition date.      On
October 3, 2008, the Tax Extenders and Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act (the Extenders Act) extended the research and development tax credit from January 1, 2008, through December 31, 2009. The research and development credit
reduced income tax expense in 2008 by approximately $110 million.      The lower tax rate in 2007 compared to 2006 is primarily due to the impact of charges associated
with our decision to exit Exubera (see the  Our 2008 Performance: Certain Charges Exubera  section of this Financial Review), higher charges related to our cost-reduction initiatives in 2007, lower non-deductible charges for
acquisition-related IPR D, and the volume and geographic mix of product sales and restructuring charges in 2007 compared to 2006, partially offset by certain one-time tax benefits in 2006, all discussed below.      In the third quarter of 2006, we recorded a decrease to the 2005 estimated U.S. tax provision related to the repatriation of foreign earnings, due primarily to the receipt of
information that raised our assessment of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of a certain position, and we recognized a tax benefit of $124 million.      In the first quarter of 2006, we were notified by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Appeals Division that a resolution had been reached on the matter that we were in the process of appealing related to the tax deductibility of an
acquisition-related breakup fee paid by the Warner-Lambert Company in 2000. As a result, in the first quarter of 2006, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $441 million related to the resolution of this issue.      On January 23, 2006, the IRS issued final regulations on Statutory Mergers and Consolidations, which impacted certain prior-period transactions. In the first quarter of 2006,
we recorded a tax benefit of $217 million, reflecting the total impact of these regulations.       Discontinued Operations Net of Tax       For further discussion about our dispositions, see the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions: Dispositions  section of this Financial Review.
The following amounts, primarily related to our former Consumer Healthcare business, have been segregated from continuing operations and included in  Discontinued operations net of tax  in the consolidated statements of income:   
   
     Adjusted Income        General
Description of Adjusted Income Measure       Adjusted income is an alternative view of performance used by management and we believe that investors  understanding
of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. We report Adjusted income in order to portray the results of our major operations the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines for
humans and animals prior to considering certain income statement elements. We have defined Adjusted income as Net income before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain
significant items. The Adjusted income measure is not, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for U.S. GAAP Net income.      The Adjusted income measure is an
important internal measurement for Pfizer. We measure the performance of the overall Company on this basis, in conjunction with other performance metrics. The following are examples of how the Adjusted income measure is utilized.       

Senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an Adjusted income basis;          

Our annual budgets are prepared on an Adjusted income basis; and          

Senior management s annual compensation is derived, in part, using this Adjusted income measure. Adjusted income is one of the performance metrics utilized in the
determination of bonuses under the Pfizer Inc Executive Annual Incentive Plan that is designed to limit the bonuses payable to the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) for purposes of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). Subject to  

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

the Section 162(m) limitation, the bonuses are funded from a pool based on the achievement of three financial metrics, including adjusted diluted earnings per
share, which is derived from Adjusted income. These metrics derived from Adjusted income account for (i) 17% of the target bonus for ELT members and (ii) 33% of the bonus pool made available to ELT members and other members of senior management.
        Despite the importance of this measure to management in goal setting and performance measurement, we stress that Adjusted income is a non-U.S. GAAP
financial measure that has no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, has limits in its usefulness to investors. Because of its non-standardized definition, Adjusted income (unlike U.S. GAAP Net income) may not be comparable
with the calculation of similar measures for other companies. Adjusted income is presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses our performance.      We also recognize that, as an internal measure of performance, the Adjusted income measure has limitations and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to this metric. A limitation of the Adjusted income
measure is that it provides a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and does not provide a comparable view of our performance to other
companies in the pharmaceutical industry. We also use other specifically tailored tools designed to ensure the highest levels of our performance. For example, our R D organization has productivity targets, upon which its effectiveness is
measured. In addition, Performance Share Awards grants made in 2006, 2007, 2008 and future years will be paid based on a non-discretionary formula that measures our performance using relative total shareholder return.       Purchase Accounting Adjustments       Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering
certain significant purchase-accounting impacts, such as those related to business combinations and net asset acquisitions (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 2. Acquisitions) . These impacts can include charges for
purchased in-process R D, the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value and the incremental charges related to the amortization of finite-lived intangible assets for the increase to
fair value. Therefore, the Adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the aforementioned significant charges.      Certain of the purchase-accounting adjustments associated with a business combination, such as the amortization of intangibles acquired in connection with our acquisition of Pharmacia in 2003, can occur for up to 40 years
(these assets have a weighted-average useful life of approximately nine years), but this presentation provides an alternative view of our performance that is used by management to internally assess business performance. We believe the elimination of
amortization attributable to acquired intangible assets provides management and investors an alternative view of our business results by trying to provide a degree of parity to internally developed intangible assets for which research and
development costs have been previously expensed.      However, a completely accurate comparison of internally developed intangible assets and acquired intangible assets
cannot be achieved through Adjusted income. This component of Adjusted income is derived solely with the impacts of the items listed in the first paragraph of this section. We have not factored in the impacts of any other differences in experience
that might have occurred if we had discovered and developed those intangible assets on our own, and this approach does not intend to be representative of the results that would have occurred in those circumstances. For example, our research and
development costs in total, and in the periods presented, may have been different; our speed to commercialization and resulting sales, if any, may have been different; or our costs to manufacture may have been different. In addition, our marketing
efforts may have been received differently by our customers. As such, in total, there can be no assurance that our Adjusted income amounts would have been the same as presented had we discovered and developed the acquired intangible assets.
      Acquisition-Related Costs       Adjusted income is calculated prior to
considering integration and restructuring costs associated with business combinations because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the
acquisition decision. For additional clarity, only restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a purchase business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. We have made no adjustments
for the resulting synergies.      We believe that viewing income prior to considering these charges provides investors with a useful additional perspective because the
significant costs incurred in a business combination result primarily from the need to eliminate duplicate assets, activities or employees a natural result of acquiring a fully integrated set of activities. For this reason, we believe that the
costs incurred to convert disparate systems, to close duplicative facilities or to eliminate duplicate positions (for example, in the context of a business combination) can be viewed differently from those costs incurred in other, more normal
business contexts.      The integration and restructuring costs associated with a business combination may occur over several years, with the more significant impacts
ending within three years of the transaction. Because of the need for certain external approvals for some actions, the span of time needed to achieve certain restructuring and integration activities can be lengthy. For example, due to the highly
regulated nature of the pharmaceutical business, the closure of excess facilities can take several years, as all manufacturing changes are subject to extensive validation and testing and must be approved by the FDA and/or other global regulatory
authorities.       Discontinued Operations       Adjusted income is calculated prior
to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, such as our Consumer Healthcare business, which we sold in December 2006, as well as any related gains or losses on the sale of such operations. We believe that this
presentation is meaningful to investors because, while we review our businesses and product lines periodically for strategic fit with our operations, we do not build or run our businesses with an intent to sell them.         

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                     Certain Significant Items       Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant items. Certain significant items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the
quantitative and the qualitative aspect of their unusual nature. Unusual, in this context, may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of
our normal business on a regular basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. While not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain significant items would be a major
non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated implementation costs for a program which is specific in nature with a defined term, such as those related to our cost-reduction initiatives; charges related to certain sales or disposals of
products or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations as defined by U.S. GAAP; amounts associated with transition service agreements in support of discontinued operations after sale; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments
related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation, such as adjustments associated with charges attributable to the repatriation of foreign earnings in accordance with the
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004; or possible charges related to legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in  Legal Proceedings  in our Form 10-K and in  Part II: Other Information; Item 1, Legal Proceedings  in our Form
10-Q filings. Normal, ongoing defense costs of the Company or settlements and accruals on legal matters made in the normal course of our business would not be considered certain significant items.       Reconciliation       A reconciliation between  Net income , as reported under U.S. GAAP,
and Adjusted income follows:       

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

(a)     
    Included primarily in  Amortization of intangible assets.  (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 12.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. )      

(b)     
    Included in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges.  (See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  Note 2. Acquisitions. )      

(c)     
    Included in  Restructuring charges and acquisition-related costs . (See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  Note 5. Cost-Reduction Initiatives .)      

(d)     
     Discontinued operations net of tax  is primarily related to our Consumer Healthcare business. (See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 3. Discontinued Operations. )      

(e)     
    Included in  Cost of sales  ($745 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($413 million),
 Research and development expenses  ($433 million) and  Other (income)/deductions net  ($14 million) for 2008. Included in  Cost of sales  ($700 million),  Selling, informational and   administrative expenses  ($334
million),  Research and development expenses  ($416 million) and  Other (income)/deductions net  ($61 million income) for 2007. Included in  Cost of sales  ($392 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses
 ($243 million),  Research and development expenses  ($176 million) and  Other (income)/deductions net  ($23 million income) for 2006. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 5. Cost-Reduction Initiatives .)

(f)     
    Included in  Other (income)/deductions net  and for 2008, includes approximately $2.3 billion in charges resulting from
an agreement in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice to resolve the previously reported investigation regarding allegations of past off-label promotional practices concerning Bextra, as well as certain other open investigations, and
approximately $900 million related to the agreements and agreements in principle to resolve certain NSAID litigation and claims. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 4A. Certain Charges: Bextra  and  Certain Other
Investigations  and  Note 4B. Certain Charges: Certain Product Litigation Celebrex and Bextra .)      

(g)     
    Included in  Revenues  and reflects an adjustment to the prior years  liabilities for product returns. (See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 4C. Certain Charges: Adjustment to Prior Years  Liabilities for Product Returns .)      

(h)     
    In 2008, these charges primarily relate to the closing of a manufacturing plant in Italy and are included in  Other
(income)/deductions  net . In 2007, these charges primarily related to the decision to exit Exubera and comprise approximately $1.1 billion of intangible asset impairments, $661 million of inventory write-offs, $454 million of fixed asset
impairments and $578 million of other exit costs and are included in  Cost of sales  ($2.6 billion),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($85 million),   and  Research and development expenses  ($100 million).
See the  Our 2008 Performance: Certain Charges Exubera  section of this Financial Review. In 2006, $320 million related to the impairment of the Depo-Provera intangible asset is included in  Other (income)/deductions net .
(See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 12B. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets: Other Intangible Assets. )            

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

(i)     
    Included in  Revenues  ($172 million),  Cost of sales  ($162 million) and  Selling, informational and administrative
expenses  ($3 million) for 2008. Included in  Revenues  ($219 million),  Cost of sales  ($194 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($15 million) and  Other (income)/deductions net  ($16 million
income) for 2007.      

(j)     
    Included in  Research and development expenses .      

(k)     
    Primarily included in  Other (income)/deductions net . (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 6.
Other (Income)/Deductions Net. )      

(l)     
    Included in  Provision for taxes on income . (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 7. Taxes on
Income. )          Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources        Net Financial Assets       Our net financial asset position as of December 31 follows:       
    We rely largely on operating cash flow, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to
provide for the working capital needs of our operations, including our R D activities. We believe that we have the ability to obtain both short-term and long-term debt to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future.      On January 26, 2009, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we will acquire Wyeth in a cash-and-stock transaction valued on that
date at $50.19 per share, or a total of $68 billion. We plan to finance this acquisition with a combination of cash (about $22.5 billion), debt financing (about $22.5 billion) and the issuance of common stock (about $23.0 billion, based on the price
of our common stock on January 23, 2009, the last trading day prior to our announcement on January 26). We have received a commitment from a syndicate of banks for the debt financing related to this transaction. The financing commitment is
subject to, among other things, there being no material adverse change with respect to Pfizer and Pfizer maintaining credit ratings of A2/A long-term stable/stable and A1/P1 short-term affirmed.      Set forth below is information about our investments, credit ratings and debt capacity as of December 31, 2008.       

Investments          Our short-term and long-term
investments consist primarily of high-quality, investment-grade available-for-sale debt securities. Our long-term investments include debt securities that totaled $9.1 billion as of December 31, 2008, which have maturities ranging substantially
from one to five years. Wherever possible, cash management is centralized and intercompany financing is used to provide working capital to our operations. Where local restrictions prevent intercompany financing, working capital needs are met through
operating cash flows and/or external borrowings. Our portfolio of financial assets increased in 2008 as a result of strong operating cash flow.       

Credit Ratings          Two major corporate debt-rating
organizations, Moody s Investors Service (Moody s) and Standard   Poor s (S P), assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. The following chart reflects the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to
our commercial paper and senior unsecured non-credit enhanced long-term debt issued by us:       

COMMERCIAL     PAPER      
        
  LONG-TERM DEBT  
        
  DATE OF LAST ACTION   
 
  NAME OF RATING AGENCY  

RATING  
      
  OUTLOOK  

Moody s   
      
  P-1      
        
  Aa1  
      
  Negative  
        
  October 2007   
 
    S P   
      
  A1+      
        
  AAA  
      
  Negative  
        
  December 2006   

On January 26, 2009, after our announcement that we had entered into a definitive merger agreement under
which we will acquire Wyeth, Moody s put us on review for possible downgrade and S P put us on credit watch with negative outlook implications. We do not expect the acquisition to impact our credit ratings for commercial paper, but we do
expect a possible reduction in our long-term debt ratings, from Aa1/Negative to A1/Stable long term (Moody s) and from AAA/Negative to AA/Stable long term (S P).       

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

Debt Capacity          We have available lines of credit
and revolving-credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. We maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. As of
December 31, 2008, we had access to $7.2 billion of lines of credit, of which $5.1 billion expire within one year. Of these lines of credit, $7.1 billion are unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $6.1 billion at our request.
$6.0 billion of the unused lines of credit, of which $4.0 billion expire in 2009 and $2.0 billion expire in 2013, may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings.      In March 2007, we filed a securities registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This registration statement was filed under the automatic  shelf registration  process available to
 well-known seasoned issuers  and is effective for three years. We can issue securities of various types under that registration statement at any time, subject to approval by our Board of Directors in certain circumstances.       Changes in Global Financial Markets       Beginning near the end of the third quarter of 2008,
dramatic changes in the global financial markets weakened global economic conditions. These changes have not had, nor do we anticipate they will have, a significant impact on our liquidity. Due to our significant operating cash flow, financial
assets, access to the capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving-credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future. As market conditions change, we continue to
monitor our liquidity position.       Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets       As
of December 31, 2008,  Goodwill  totaled $21.5 billion (19% of our total assets) and  Identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization , totaled $17.7 billion (16% of our total assets).      The components of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, by segment, as of December 31, 2008, follow:       
    At least annually, we review all of our intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment. (See the  Accounting
Policies: Long-Lived Assets  section of this Financial Review.) For goodwill, volatility in securities markets and changes in Pfizer's market capitalization can impact these calculations. None of our goodwill is impaired as of December 31,
2008.       

Developed Technology Rights    Developed technology rights represent the amortized value associated with developed technology, which has been acquired from third
parties, and which can include the right to develop, use, market, sell and/or offer for sale the product, compounds and intellectual property that we have acquired with respect to products, compounds and/or processes that have been completed. We
possess a well-diversified portfolio of hundreds of developed technology rights across therapeutic categories, primarily representing the commercialized products included in our Pharmaceutical segment that we acquired in connection with our
Pharmacia acquisition in 2003. While the Arthritis and Pain therapeutic category represents about 29% of the total amortized value of developed technology rights as of December 31, 2008, the balance of the amortized value is distributed in a
range of 5% to 15% across the following Pharmaceutical therapeutic product categories: Ophthalmology; Oncology; Urology; Infectious and Respiratory Diseases; Endocrine Disorders categories; and, as a group, the Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases;
Central Nervous System Disorders and All Other categories. The significant components include values determined for Celebrex, Detrol/Detrol LA, Xalatan, Genotropin and Zyvox. Also included in this category are the post-approval milestone payments
made under our alliance agreements for certain Pharmaceutical products, such as Rebif and Spiriva.         In 2007, we recorded a charge of
$1.1 billion for the impairment of intangible assets (primarily developed technology rights) associated with Exubera. (See the  Our 2008 Performance: Certain Charges Exubera  section of this Financial Review.)       

Brands    Significant components of brands include values determined for Depo-Provera contraceptive, Xanax and Medrol.         In 2006, we recorded impairment charges of approximately $320 million related to the Depo-Provera brand (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note
6. Other (Income)/Deductions   Net).               

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

(b)     
    Represents total shareholders  equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury
shares and those held by our employee benefit trust).         Working capital and the ratio of current assets to current liabilities in 2008 were lower
than in 2007, primarily due to:       

an increase in liabilities of $3.2 billion, related to legal matters concerning Celebrex and Bextra. (See the  Our 2008 Performance: Certain Charges Bextra and
Certain Other Investigations and Certain Charges Certain Product Litigation Celebrex and Bextra  sections of this Financial Review.)          

the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of about $1 billion;          

an increase in cash generated from operations being invested in long-term investments; and          

the timing of accruals, cash receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business.          

Operating Activities        Our
net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $18.2 billion in 2008, compared to $13.4 billion in 2007. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to:       

lower tax payments ($3.4 billion) made in 2008, primarily due to the higher taxes paid in 2007, substantially all of which related to the gain on the sale of our Consumer
Healthcare business in December 2006;          

the sale of certain royalty rights ($425 million); and          

the timing of other receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business.         Our net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $13.4 billion in 2007, compared to $17.6 billion in 2006. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to:       

higher tax payments ($2.2 billion) in 2007, related primarily to the gain on the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business in December 2006; and      

the timing of other receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business.         In 2008, the cash flow line item called  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities  primarily reflects the $3.2 billion accrued in 2008 for legal matters related to Celebrex and Bextra that has not yet been paid. In 2007 and 2006, the
cash flow line item called  Taxes  primarily reflects the taxes provided in 2006 on the gain on the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business that were paid in 2007.       

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                      Investing Activities        Our net cash used in investing activities was $12.8 billion in 2008, compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $795 million in 2007. The decrease in net cash provided by investing activities was primarily
attributable to:       

net purchases of investments of $8.3 billion in 2008, compared to net sales and redemptions of investments of $3.4 billion in 2007 (a negative change in cash and cash
equivalents of $11.7 billion); and          

the acquisitions of Serenex, Encysive, CovX, Coley and animal health product lines from Schering-Plough, as well as two smaller animal health acquisitions in 2008, compared
to the acquisitions of BioRexis and Embrex in 2007 (an increased use of cash of $720 million).         Our net cash provided by investing activities was
$795 million in 2007, compared to $5.1 billion in 2006. The decrease in net cash provided by investing activities was primarily attributable to:       
    partially offset by:       

the acquisitions of BioRexis and Embrex in 2007, compared to the acquisitions of PowderMed, Rinat and sanofi-aventis  rights associated with Exubera in 2006 (a decreased
use of cash of $1.9 billion).         In 2008, the cash flow line item called  Other  primarily reflects a $1.2 billion payment by us upon the
redemption of a Swedish krona currency swap. In a related transaction, this payment was offset by the receipt of cash in our operating activities.        Financing
Activities        Our net cash used in financing activities was $6.6 billion in 2008, compared to $12.6 billion in 2007. The decrease in net cash used in financing
activities was primarily attributable to:       
     
    partially offset by:       
    Our net cash used in financing activities was $12.6 billion in 2007, compared to $23.1 billion in 2006. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily
attributable to:       
    partially offset by:       

cash dividends paid of $8.0 billion in 2007, compared to $6.9 billion in 2006, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate, partially offset by lower shares outstanding.
        In June 2005, we announced a $5 billion share-purchase program. In June 2006, the Board of Directors increased our share-purchase authorization
from $5 billion to $18 billion, which is primarily being funded by operating cash flows and a portion of the proceeds from the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business. In total, under the June 2005 program, through December 31, 2008, we
purchased approximately 710 million shares for approximately $18.0 billion.      In January 2008, we announced a new $5 billion share-purchase program, to be funded
by operating cash flows, that may be utilized from time to time. On January 26, 2009, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we will acquire Wyeth in a cash-and-stock transaction. The merger agreement
limits our stock purchases to a maximum of $500 million prior to the completion of the transaction without Wyeth s consent.         

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                    A summary of common stock purchases follows:       
     Contractual Obligations       Payments
due under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008, mature as follows:       

(a)     
    Our long-term debt obligations include both our expected principal and interest obligations. Our calculations of expected interest
payments incorporates only current period assumptions for interest rates, foreign currency translation rates and hedging strategies. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 9. Financial Instruments .) Long-term debt consists
of senior, unsecured notes, floating rate, unsecured notes, foreign currency denominated notes, and other borrowings and mortgages.      

(b)     
    Includes expected payments relating to our unfunded U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans, postretirement plans and
deferred compensation plans.      

(c)     
    Includes operating and capital lease obligations.      

(d)     
    Includes agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and include amounts relating to
advertising, information technology services, employee benefit administration services, and potential milestone payments deemed reasonably likely to occur.      

(e)     
    Except for amounts reflected in  Income taxes payable , we are unable to predict the timing of tax settlements, as tax audits
can involve complex issues and the resolution of those issues may span multiple years, particularly if subject to negotiation or litigation.         The
above table excludes amounts for potential milestone payments under collaboration, licensing or other arrangements, unless the payments are deemed reasonably likely to occur. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon
the achievement of certain development, regulatory and/or commercialization milestones, which may span several years, and which may never occur.      In 2009, we expect
to spend approximately $1.6 billion on property, plant and equipment. The downward trend in capital expenditures in recent years reflects in part the rationalization of our plant network and other site closures, and Information Technology
infrastructure and application rationalization and standardization. Planned capital spending mostly represents investment to maintain existing facilities and capacity. We rely largely on operating cash flow to fund our capital investment needs. Due
to our significant operating cash flow, we believe we have the ability to meet our capital investment needs and foresee no delays to planned capital expenditures.       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       In the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses, we often indemnify our
counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to activities prior to a transaction. These indemnifications typically pertain to environmental, tax, employee and/or product-related
matters, and patent infringement claims. If the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we would be required to reimburse the loss. These indemnifications are generally subject to threshold
amounts, specified claim periods and other restrictions and limitations. Historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of December 31, 2008, recorded amounts for the estimated fair value of these
indemnifications are not significant.      Certain of our co-promotion or license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases
to obtain, under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products.       Dividends on Common
Stock       We declared dividends of $8.6 billion in 2008 and $8.2 billion in 2007 on our common stock. In
December 2008, our Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 2009 dividend of $0.32 per share. The first-quarter 2009 cash dividend will be our 281 st  consecutive quarterly dividend. In January 2009, in connection with the proposed
merger between Pfizer and Wyeth, the Board of Directors determined that, effective with the dividend to be paid in the second quarter of 2009, it will reduce our quarterly dividend per share to $0.16. The merger agreement prohibits us from declaring
a quarterly dividend on our common stock in excess of $0.16 per share without Wyeth s consent prior to the completion of the transaction.         

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                    Our current and projected dividends provide a return to shareholders while maintaining sufficient
capital to invest in growing our businesses and increasing shareholder value, including through the proposed acquisition of Wyeth. Our dividends are funded from operating cash flows, our financial asset portfolio and short-term commercial paper
borrowings and are not restricted by debt covenants. We believe that our profitability and access to financial markets provide sufficient capability for us to pay current and future dividends.       New Accounting Standards        Recently Adopted Accounting Standards       As of January 1, 2008, we adopted on a prospective basis certain required provisions of SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements . Those provisions relate to our
financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value and our fair value disclosures related to financial assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 157, as amended, defines fair value, expands related disclosure requirements and specifies a hierarchy
of valuation techniques based on the nature of the inputs used to develop the fair value measures. The adoption of SFAS No. 157, as amended, did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.      Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 07-3,  Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services to Be Used in Future Research and Development
Activities,  became effective for new contracts entered into on or after January 1, 2008. EITF Issue No. 07-3 requires that non-refundable advance payments for goods and services that will be used in future R D activities be
expensed when the R D activity has been performed or when the R D goods have been received rather than when the payment is made. The adoption of EITF Issue No. 07-3 did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial
statements.       Recently Issued Accounting Standards, Not Adopted as of December 31, 2008       In November 2008, the EITF issued EITF Issue No. 08-6,  Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations , to clarify how to account for certain transactions involving equity method investments. More specifically,
it addresses how to determine the initial carrying value of the investment; allocation of the difference between the investor s carrying value and investor s share of the underlying equity of the investment; impairment assessment of
underlying intangibles held with the investee; how to account for the investee s issuance of additional shares; and how to account for a change in an investment from equity method to cost method. The provisions of EITF Issue No. 08-6 will
be adopted prospectively on January 1, 2009. We do not currently have any significant equity method investments.      In November 2008, the EITF issued EITF Issue
No. 08-7,  Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets . EITF No. 08-7 clarifies the accounting for certain separately identifiable assets, which an acquirer does not intend to actively use but intends to hold to prevent its
competitors from obtaining access to them. EITF Issue No. 08-7 requires an acquirer to account for a defensive intangible asset as a separate unit of accounting, which should be amortized to expense over the period the asset diminishes in
value. The provisions of EITF Issue No. 08-7 will be adopted prospectively on January 1, 2009, and could impact the accounting for future acquisitions, if any.      In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 142-3,  Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets . FSP SFAS 142-3 amends the factors considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a
recognized intangible asset. Among other things, in the absence of historical experience, an entity will be required to consider assumptions used by market participants. The provisions of FSP SFAS 142-3 will be adopted prospectively on
January 1, 2009, and could impact the accounting for future acquisitions, if any.      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value
Measurements , and in February 2008, issued FSP 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 . Under the terms of FSP 157-2, the adoption of SFAS No. 157 with respect to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except
for those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, will be required on January 1, 2009. We do not expect the adoption of the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to have a significant impact on
our consolidated financial statements, but it will impact the accounting for future acquisitions, if any.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),
 Business Combinations . (SFAS No. 141(R) replaced SFAS No. 141,  Business Combinations , originally issued in June 2001.) SFAS No. 141(R) retains the purchase method of accounting for acquisitions, but requires a number of
changes, including changes in the way assets and liabilities are recognized in purchase accounting. It also changes the recognition of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including contingencies, requires the capitalization of in-process
research and development costs at fair value and requires the expensing of acquisition-related costs and all restructuring charges, as incurred. Generally, SFAS No. 141(R) is effective on a prospective basis for all business combinations
completed on or after January 1, 2009, and will impact the accounting for future acquisitions, if any.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,
 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements , an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,  Consolidated Financial Statements . SFAS No. 160 provides guidance for the accounting, reporting and disclosure of
noncontrolling interests, also called minority interests. A minority interest represents the portion of equity (net assets) in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to a parent. The provisions of SFAS No. 160 will be adopted as
of January 1, 2009. The provisions of SFAS No. 160 will impact our current accounting for minority interests, which are not significant, and will impact our accounting for future acquisitions, if any, where we do not acquire 100% of the
entity.      In December 2007, the EITF issued EITF Issue No. 07-1,  Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements . EITF Issue No. 07-1 provides guidance
concerning: determining whether an arrangement constitutes a collaborative arrangement within the scope of the Issue; how costs incurred and revenues generated on sales to third parties should be reported in the income statement; how an entity
should characterize payments on the income statement; and what participants should disclose in the notes to the financial statements about a collaborative arrangement. The provisions of EITF Issue No. 07-1 will be adopted as of January 1,
2009, and we do not expect the adoption of EITF Issue No. 07-1 to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.         

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                     Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results       The Securities and Exchange Commission encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company s future prospects and
make informed investment decisions. This report and other written or oral statements that we make from time to time contain such forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management s plans and assumptions. Such
forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as  will,   anticipate,   estimate,   expect, 
 project,   intend,   plan,   believe,   target,   forecast  and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance or
business plans and prospects. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales
efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following:       

Success of research and development activities;          

Decisions by regulatory authorities regarding whether and when to approve our drug applications as well as their decisions regarding labeling and other matters that could
affect the availability or commercial potential of our products;          

Speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing approvals and product launches may be achieved;          

Success of external business-development activities;          

Competitive developments, including with respect to competitor drugs and drug candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and
drug candidates;          

Ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally;          

Difficulties or delays in manufacturing;          

Trade buying patterns;          

Ability to meet generic and branded competition after the loss of patent protection for our products and competitor products;          

Impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory provisions on product exclusivity;          

Trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment;          

U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including under Medicaid, Medicare and other
publicly funded or subsidized health programs; the importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries; direct-to-consumer advertising and interactions with healthcare
professionals; and the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access
to innovative medicines;          

Impact of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003;          

Legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the U.S. affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access;          

Contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination;          

Claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of in-line products and product candidates;          

Significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure;          

Legal defense costs, insurance expenses, settlement costs and the risk of an adverse decision or settlement related to product liability, patent protection, governmental
investigations, ongoing efforts to explore various means for resolving asbestos litigation, and other legal proceedings;          

Ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property both domestically and internationally;          

Interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;          

Governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including tax obligations;          

Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;          

Uncertainties related to general economic, political, business, industry, regulatory and market conditions including, without limitation, uncertainties related to the impact
on us, our lenders, our customers, our suppliers and counterparties to our foreign-exchange and interest-rate agreements, of the global economic recession and recent and possible future changes in global financial markets;

Any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to actual or threatened terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world, and related U.S. military
action overseas;            

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                 

Growth in costs and expenses;          

Changes in our product, segment and geographic mix;          

Our ability and Wyeth s ability to satisfy the conditions to closing our merger agreement; and          

Impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual items, including our ability to realize the projected benefits of our proposed
acquisition of Wyeth and of our cost-reduction initiatives.         We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we
believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying
assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements.      We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult
any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q, 8-K and 10-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission.      Certain risks, uncertainties
and assumptions are discussed here and under the heading entitled  Risk Factors  in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, which will be filed in February 2009. We note these factors for
investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all
potential risks or uncertainties.      This report may include discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates.
These studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data.       Financial Risk Management       The overall objective of our financial risk management program
is to seek to minimize the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on our earnings. We manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using various financial instruments. These practices may change as
economic conditions change.       Foreign Exchange Risk  A significant portion of our revenues and earnings is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. We
seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same currency revenues in relation to same currency costs, and same currency assets in relation to same currency liabilities.      Foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. These contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly
intercompany short-term foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations. Foreign currency swaps are used to offset the potential earnings effects from foreign currency debt. We also use foreign currency forward-exchange contracts
and foreign currency swaps to hedge the potential earnings effects from short and long-term foreign currency investments, third-party loans and intercompany loans.      In addition, under certain market conditions, we protect against possible declines in the reported net investments of our Japanese yen, Swedish krona and certain euro functional-currency subsidiaries. In these cases, we use currency swaps
or foreign currency debt.      Our financial instrument holdings at year-end were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. The fair
values of these instruments were determined using various methodologies. For additional details, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 9E. Financial Instruments: Fair Value . In this sensitivity analysis, we assumed that the
change in one currency s rate relative to the U.S. dollar would not have an effect on other currencies  rates relative to the U.S. dollar; all other factors were held constant.      If the dollar were to devalue against all other currencies by 10%, the expected adverse impact on net income related to our financial instruments would be immaterial. For additional details, see Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  Note 9D. Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities .       Interest Rate Risk  Our U.S. dollar
interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to interest rate risk. We are also subject to interest rate risk on euro debt, investments and currency swaps, Swedish krona currency swaps, and Japanese yen short and long-term
borrowings and currency swaps. We invest, loan and borrow primarily on a short-term or variable-rate basis. From time to time, depending on market conditions, we will fix interest rates either through entering into fixed-rate investments and
borrowings or through the use of derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps.      Our financial instrument holdings at year-end were analyzed to
determine their sensitivity to interest rate changes. The fair values of these instruments were determined using various methodologies. For additional details, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 9E. Financial Instruments:
Fair Value . In this sensitivity analysis, we used a one hundred basis point parallel shift in the interest rate curve for all maturities and for all instruments; all other factors were held constant.      If there were a one hundred basis point increase in interest rates, the expected adverse impact on net income related to our financial instruments would be immaterial.   

Financial Review       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                     Legal Proceedings and Contingencies       We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims; government
investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. We do not believe any of them will have a material adverse effect on our financial position.      Beginning in 2007 upon the adoption of a new accounting standard, we record accruals for income tax contingencies to the extent that we conclude that a tax position is not
sustainable under a  more likely than not  standard and we record our estimate of the potential tax benefits in one tax jurisdiction that could result from the payment of income taxes in another tax jurisdiction when we conclude that the
potential recovery is more likely than not. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1B. Significant Accounting Policies: New Accounting Standards  and  Note 7E. Taxes on Income: Tax Contingencies. ) We record accruals
for all other contingencies to the extent that we conclude their occurrence is probable and the related damages are estimable, and we record anticipated recoveries under existing insurance contracts when assured of recovery. If a range of liability
is probable and estimable and some amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within the range, we accrue that amount. If a range of liability is probable and estimable and no amount within the range appears to be
a better estimate than any other amount within the range, we accrue the minimum of such probable range. Many claims involve highly complex issues relating to causation, label warnings, scientific evidence, actual damages and other matters. Often
these issues are subject to substantial uncertainties and, therefore, the probability of loss and an estimation of damages are difficult to ascertain. Consequently, we cannot reasonably estimate the maximum potential exposure or the range of
possible loss in excess of amounts accrued for these contingencies. These assessments can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions (see Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  Note 1C. Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ). Our assessments are based on estimates and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by management. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive
verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular
period.      Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. Although we believe we have substantial
defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead
to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations.         

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting                Management s Report       We prepared and are responsible for the financial statements that appear in our 2008 Financial Report. These financial
statements are in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and, therefore, include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates. We also accept responsibility for the preparation of other
financial information that is included in this document.       Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Management assessed the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment and those criteria, management believes that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008.      The Company s independent auditors have issued their auditors  report on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. That report appears in our 2008
Financial Report under the heading,  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.      

       Jeffrey B. Kindler       Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer       

Frank A. D Amelio   
     
   Loretta V. Cangialosi    
 
  Principal Financial Officer  
     
  Principal Accounting Officer   
     February 27, 2009          

Audit Committee s Report                   The
Audit Committee reviews the Company s financial reporting process on behalf of the Board of Directors. Management has the primary responsibility for the financial statements and the reporting process, including the system of internal controls.
     In this context, the Committee has met and held discussions with management and the independent registered public accounting firm regarding the fair and complete
presentation of the Company s results and the assessment of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. The Committee has discussed significant accounting policies applied by the Company in its financial statements, as well as
alternative treatments. Management represented to the Committee that the Company s consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and the Committee
has reviewed and discussed the consolidated financial statements with management and the independent registered public accounting firm. The Committee discussed with the independent registered public accounting firm matters required to be discussed
by statement on Auditing Standards No. 61, as amended (AICPA,  Professional Standards , Vol. 1, AU section 380), as adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in Rule 3200T.      In addition, the Committee has reviewed and discussed with the independent registered public accounting firm the auditor s independence from the Company and its management. As
part of that review, the Committee received the written disclosures and the letter required by applicable requirements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding the independent accountant s communications with the Audit
Committee concerning independence and the Committee has discussed the independent registered public accounting firm s independence from the Company. The Committee also has considered whether the independent registered public accounting
firm s provision of non-audit services to the Company is compatible with the auditor s independence. The Committee has concluded that the independent registered public accounting firm is independent from the Company and its management.
     The Committee reviewed and discussed Company policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management.      The Committee discussed with the Company s internal auditors and the independent registered public accounting firm the overall scope and plans for their respective audits. The
Committee met with the internal auditors and the independent registered public accounting firm, with and without management present, to discuss the results of their examinations, the evaluations of the Company s internal controls, and the
overall quality of the Company s financial reporting.      In reliance on the reviews and discussions referred to above, the Committee recommended to the Board of
Directors, and the Board has approved, that the audited financial statements be included in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, for filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
Committee has selected and the Board of Directors has ratified, subject to shareholder ratification, the selection of the Company s independent registered public accounting firm.     

       W. Don Cornwell       Chair, Audit Committee
      February 27, 2009        The Audit Committee s Report shall not be
deemed to be filed or incorporated by reference into any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates the Audit
Committee s Report by reference therein.          

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Consolidated Financial Statements                The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Pfizer Inc.:       We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary
Companies as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary
Companies  internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO), and our report dated February 27, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effective operation of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.     

       KPMG LLP       New York, New York       February 27, 2009          

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting                The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Pfizer Inc.:       We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary
Companies as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists and testing and evaluating the design
and operating effectiveness of internal control, based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based
on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).      We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008, and our report dated February 27, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those
consolidated financial statements.     

       KPMG LLP       New York, New York       February 27, 2009          

Consolidated Statements of Income       Pfizer
Inc and Subsidiary Companies       

(a)     
    Exclusive of amortization of intangible assets, except as disclosed in  Note 1K .  Amortization of Intangible Assets,
Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived Assets.              See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.         

Consolidated Balance Sheets       Pfizer Inc
and Subsidiary Companies       
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.         

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies       
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.         

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies       

(a)   Reflects portion of proceeds received in the form of short-term investments.   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                      1.   Significant Accounting Policies
        A. Consolidation and Basis of Presentation       The consolidated
financial statements include our parent company and all subsidiaries, including those operating outside the U.S., and are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). The
consolidation decision requires consideration of majority voting interests, as well as effective economic or other control. Typically, we do not seek control by means other than voting interests and we do not have significant interests in
non-consolidated entities. For subsidiaries operating outside the U.S., the financial information is included as of and for the year ended November 30 for each year presented. Substantially all unremitted earnings of international subsidiaries
are free of legal and contractual restrictions. All significant transactions among our businesses have been eliminated.       B. New Accounting Standards
       Financial Instruments Fair Value  As of January 1, 2008, we adopted on a prospective basis certain required provisions of SFAS No. 157,
 Fair Value Measurements . Those provisions relate to our financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value and our fair value disclosures related to financial assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 157, as amended, defines fair value,
expands related disclosure requirements and specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on the nature of the inputs used to develop the fair value measures. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid
to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. There are three levels of inputs to fair value measurements Level 1, meaning the use of quoted prices for identical instruments in active
markets; Level 2, meaning the use of quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active or are directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, meaning the use
of unobservable inputs. Observable market data should be used when available.      Many, but not all, of our financial instruments are carried at fair value. For
example, substantially all of our cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments are classified as available-for-sale securities and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in  Other
comprehensive income  /(expense) . Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value in various balance sheet categories (see  Note 9D. Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities ), with
changes in fair value reported in current earnings or deferred on qualifying hedging relationships. Virtually all of our valuation measurements use Level 2 inputs. The adoption of SFAS No. 157, as amended, did not have a significant impact on
our consolidated financial statements. As of January 1, 2008, we did not elect to adopt SFAS No. 157, as amended, for acquired nonfinancial assets and assumed nonfinancial liabilities.       Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Other Intangible Assets  As of January 1, 2008, we adopted the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue
No. 07-3,  Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services to Be Used in Future Research and Development Activities,  for new contracts entered into on or after that date. EITF Issue No. 07-3 requires that
non-refundable advance payments for goods and services that will be used in future research and development (R D) activities be expensed when the R D activity has been performed or when the R D goods have been received rather than
when the payment is made. The adoption of EITF Issue No. 07-3 did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.       Taxes on
Income Income Tax Contingencies  As of January 1, 2007, we adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48),  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of SFAS 109, Accounting for Income
Taxes , as amended, and changed our policy related to the accounting for income tax contingencies to a  more-likely-than-not  standard from a  probable  standard. To understand the cumulative effect of this accounting change,
see  Note 7A. Taxes on Income: Adoption of New Accounting Standard.         Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans  As of
December 31, 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans (an amendment of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statements No. 87, 88,
106 and 132R).  SFAS 158 requires us to recognize on our consolidated balance sheet the difference between our benefit obligations and any plan assets of our benefit plans. In addition, we are required to recognize as part of other comprehensive
income/(expense), net of taxes, gains and losses due to differences between our actuarial assumptions and actual experience (actuarial gains and losses) and any effects on prior service due to plan amendments (prior service costs or credits) that
arise during the period and which are not yet recognized as net periodic benefit costs. At adoption date, we recognized the previously unrecognized actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs and credits and net transition amounts within
 Accumulated other comprehensive income/(expense),  net of tax. To understand the cumulative effect of this accounting change, see  Note 13A. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans: Adoption of New Accounting
Standard .       C. Estimates and Assumptions       In preparing the consolidated
financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and disclosures. These estimates and underlying assumptions can impact all elements of our financial statements. For example, in the consolidated statement
of income, estimates are used when accounting for deductions from revenues (such as rebates, chargebacks, sales returns and sales allowances), determining cost of sales, allocating cost in the form of depreciation and amortization, and estimating
restructuring charges and the impact of contingencies. On the consolidated balance sheet, estimates are used in determining the valuation and recoverability of assets, such as accounts receivables, investments, inventories, fixed assets and
intangible assets (including goodwill), and estimates are used in determining the reported amounts of liabilities, such as taxes payable, benefit obligations, the impact of contingencies, rebates, chargebacks, sales returns and sales allowances and
restructuring reserves.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions, using historical experience and other factors,
including the economic environment. Our estimates are often based on complex judgments, probabilities and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable but that are inherently uncertain and unpredictable.      As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, our estimates and assumptions may prove to be incomplete or inaccurate, or unanticipated events and
circumstances may occur that might cause us to change those estimates and assumptions. Market conditions, such as illiquid credit markets, volatile equity markets, dramatic fluctuations in foreign currency rates and economic recession, can increase
the uncertainty already inherent in our estimates and assumptions. We adjust our estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances indicate the need for change. Those changes will be reflected in our financial statements on a prospective basis.
It is possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts. We are also subject to other risks and uncertainties that may cause actual
results to differ from estimated amounts, such as changes in the healthcare environment, competition, litigation, legislation and regulations. These and other risks and uncertainties are discussed in the accompanying Financial Review, which is
unaudited, under the headings  Our Operating Environment and Response to Key Opportunities and Challenges  and  Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results.        D. Contingencies       We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent,
product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims; government investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Except for income tax
contingencies, we record accruals for contingencies to the extent that we conclude their occurrence is probable and that the related liabilities are estimable and we record anticipated recoveries under existing insurance contracts when assured of
recovery. For tax matters, beginning in 2007 upon the adoption of a new accounting standard, we record accruals for income tax contingencies to the extent that we conclude that a tax position is not sustainable under a  more-
likely-than-not  standard and we record our estimate of the potential tax benefits in one tax jurisdiction that could result from the payment of income taxes in another tax jurisdiction when we conclude that the potential recovery is more
likely than not. (See  Note 1B. Significant Accounting Policies: New Accounting Standards  and  Note 7E. Taxes on Income: Tax Contingencies.)  We consider many factors in making these assessments. Because litigation and other contingencies
are inherently unpredictable and excessive verdicts do occur, these assessments can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions (see  Note 1C. Significant Accounting Policies:
Estimates and Assumptions ).       E. Acquisitions       Our consolidated financial
statements reflect an acquired business after the completion of the acquisition and are not restated. We account for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting, which requires that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed be
recorded at the date of acquisition at their fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the assigned values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Amounts allocated to acquired in-process research and development (IPR D)
have been expensed at the date of acquisition. When we have acquired net assets that do not constitute a business under U.S. GAAP, no goodwill has been recognized.       F. Foreign Currency Translation       For most international operations, local currencies have been determined to be the functional currencies. We
translate functional currency assets and liabilities to their U.S. dollar equivalents at rates in effect at the balance sheet date and record these translation adjustments in  Shareholders  equity Accumulated other comprehensive
income/(expense) . We translate functional currency statement of income amounts at average rates for the period. The effects of converting non-functional currency assets and liabilities into the functional currency are recorded in  Other
(income)/deductions net .      For operations in highly inflationary economies, we translate monetary items at rates in effect at the balance sheet date, with
translation adjustments recorded in  Other (income)/deductions net , and nonmonetary items at historical rates.       G. Revenues        Revenue Recognition  We record revenues from product sales when the goods are shipped and title passes to the customer. At the time of sale, we also record estimates for
a variety of sales deductions, such as sales rebates, discounts and incentives, and product returns. When we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of future product returns, we record revenues when the risk of product return has been substantially
eliminated.       Deductions from Revenues  Gross product sales are subject to a variety of deductions that are generally estimated and recorded in the same
period that the revenues are recognized and primarily represent rebates and discounts to government agencies, wholesalers, distributors and managed care organizations with respect to our pharmaceutical products. These deductions represent estimates
of the related obligation and, as such, judgment and knowledge of market conditions and practices are required when estimating the impact of these sales deductions on gross sales for a reporting period.      Specifically:       

In the U.S., we record provisions for pharmaceutical Medicaid, Medicare and contract rebates based upon our experience ratio of rebates paid and actual prescriptions written
during prior quarters. We apply the experience ratio to the respective period s sales to determine the rebate accrual and related expense. This experience ratio is evaluated regularly to ensure that the historical trends are as current as
practicable. As appropriate, we will adjust the ratio to better match our current experience or our expected future experience. In assessing this ratio, we consider current contract terms, such as changes in formulary status and discount rates.

Outside the U.S., the majority of our pharmaceutical rebates, discounts and price reductions are contractual or legislatively mandated and our estimates are based on actual
invoiced sales within each period; both of these elements help to reduce the risk of variations in the estimation process. Some European countries base their rebates on the government s unbudgeted pharmaceutical spending and  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                 

we use an estimated allocation factor (based on historical payments) and total revenues by country against our actual invoiced sales to project the expected level of
reimbursement. We obtain third-party information that helps us to monitor the adequacy of these accruals.          

Provisions for pharmaceutical chargebacks (primarily reimbursements to wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties) closely approximate actual as we settle
these deductions generally within two to four weeks of incurring the liability.          

Provisions for pharmaceutical returns are based on a calculation at each market that incorporates the following, as appropriate: local returns policies and practices; returns
as a percentage of sales; an understanding of the reasons for past returns; estimated shelf-life by product; an estimate of the amount of time between shipment and return or lag time; and any other factors that could impact the estimate of future
returns, such as loss of exclusivity, product recalls, or a changing competitive environment, as appropriate.          

We record sales incentives as a reduction of revenues at the time the related revenues are recorded or when the incentive is offered, whichever is later. We estimate the cost
of our sales incentives based on our historical experience with similar incentives programs.          

Our accruals for Medicaid rebates, Medicare rebates, performance-based contract rebates and chargebacks were $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2008, and $1.4 billion as of
December 31, 2007, and are included in  Other current liabilities .         Taxes collected from customers relating to product sales and remitted
to governmental authorities are presented on a net basis; that is, they are excluded from  Revenues .       Alliances  We have agreements to co-promote
pharmaceutical products discovered by other companies. Alliance revenues are earned when our co-promotion partners ship the related product and title passes to their customer. Alliance revenues are primarily based upon a percentage of our
co-promotion partners  net sales. Expenses for selling and marketing these products are included in  Selling, informational and administrative expenses .       H. Cost of Sales and Inventories       We value inventories at lower of cost or market. Cost is determined as follows:       

finished goods and work in process at average actual cost; and          

raw materials and supplies at average or latest actual cost.          I.
Selling, Informational and Administrative Expenses       Selling, informational and administrative costs are expensed as incurred. Among other things, these expenses
include the costs of marketing, advertising, shipping and handling, information technology and non-manufacturing employee compensation.      Advertising expenses relating
to production costs are expensed as incurred and the costs of radio time, television time and space in publications are expensed when the related advertising occurs. Advertising expenses totaled approximately $2.6 billion in 2008, $2.7 billion in
2007 and $2.6 billion in 2006.       J. Research and Development Expenses       Research and development (R D) costs are expensed as incurred. These expenses include the costs of our proprietary R D efforts, as well as costs incurred in connection with our third-party collaboration efforts. Before a compound
receives regulatory approval, we record milestone payments made by us to third parties under contracted R D arrangements as expense when the specific milestone has been achieved. Once a compound receives regulatory approval, we record any
subsequent milestone payments in  Identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization  and, unless the assets are determined to have an indefinite life, we amortize them evenly over the remaining agreement term or the expected product
life cycle, whichever is shorter.       K. Amortization of Intangible Assets, Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived Assets       Long-lived assets include:       

Goodwill  Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the assigned values of its net assets. Goodwill is not amortized.

Identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization  These acquired assets are recorded at our cost. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized
evenly over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized.          

Property, plant and equipment, less accumulated depreciation  These assets are recorded at original cost and increased by the cost of any significant improvements
after purchase. We depreciate the cost evenly over the assets  estimated useful lives. For tax purposes, accelerated depreciation methods are used as allowed by tax laws.         Amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets that contribute to our ability to sell, manufacture, research, market and distribute products, compounds and intellectual
property are included in  Amortization of intangible assets  as they benefit multiple business functions. Amortization expense related to intangible assets that are associated with a single function and depreciation of property, plant and
equipment are included in  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses  and  Research and development expenses,  as appropriate.      We
review all of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment indicators at least annually and we perform detailed impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived assets annually and for all other
long-lived assets whenever impairment indicators are present. When necessary, we record charges for impairments of long-lived assets for the amount by which the present value of future cash flows, or some other fair value measure, is less than the
carrying value of these assets. The process  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                   
 for evaluating goodwill requires the calculation of the fair value of the corresponding business segment and determining the implied fair value of goodwill by
subtracting the fair value of all the identifiable net assets other than goodwill from the fair value of the business segment.       L. Acquisition-Related In-Process
Research and Development Charges and Restructuring Charges and Acquisition-Related Costs       When recording acquisitions, we have expensed amounts related to
acquired IPR D in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges .      We may incur restructuring charges in connection with our
cost-reduction initiatives, as well as in connection with acquisitions, when we implement plans to restructure and integrate the acquired operations. For restructuring charges associated with a business acquisition that are identified in the first
year after the acquisition date, the related costs have been recorded as additional goodwill, if any, because they have been considered to be liabilities assumed in the acquisition. All other restructuring charges, all integration costs and any
charges related to our pre-existing businesses impacted by an acquisition have been expensed as incurred in  Restructuring charges and acquisition-related costs . Termination costs are a significant component of our restructuring charges and
are recorded when the actions are probable and estimable.       M. Cash Equivalents and Statement of Cash Flows       Cash equivalents include items almost as liquid as cash, such as certificates of deposit and time deposits with maturity periods of three months or less when purchased. If items
meeting this definition are part of a larger investment pool, we classify them as  Short-term investments .      Cash flows associated with financial instruments
designated as fair value or cash flow hedges may be included in operating, investing or financing activities, depending on the classification of the items being hedged. Cash flows associated with financial instruments designated as net investment
hedges are classified according to the nature of the hedge instrument. Cash flows associated with financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are classified according to their purpose and accounting nature.   
   N. Investments, Loans and Derivative Financial Instruments       Many, but not all, of our
financial instruments are carried at fair value. For example, substantially all of our cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments are classified as available-for-sale securities and are carried at fair value, with unrealized
gains and losses, net of tax, reported in  Other comprehensive income  /(expense) . Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value in various balance sheet categories (see  Note 9D.   Financial Instruments: Derivative
Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities ), with changes in fair value reported in current earnings or deferred on qualifying hedging relationships. Virtually all of our valuation measurements are based on the use of quoted prices for similar
instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active or are directly or indirectly observable.      Realized
gains or losses on sales of investments are determined by using the specific identification cost method.       O. Income Tax Contingencies       We account for income tax contingencies using a benefit recognition model. If we consider that a tax position is more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, based solely on
the technical merits of the position, we recognize the benefit. We measure the benefit by determining the amount that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement, presuming that the tax position is examined by the appropriate taxing
authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Under the benefit recognition model, if our initial assessment fails to result in the recognition of a tax benefit, we regularly monitor our position and subsequently recognize the tax
benefit: (i) if there are changes in tax law or analogous case law that sufficiently raise the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of the position to more likely than not; (ii) if the statute of limitations expires; or
(iii) if there is a completion of an audit resulting in a favorable settlement of that tax year with the appropriate agency. We regularly reevaluate our tax positions based on the results of audits of federal, state and foreign income tax
filings, statute of limitations expirations, and changes in tax law that would either increase or decrease the technical merits of a position relative to the  more-likely-than-not  standard. Liabilities associated with uncertain tax
positions are classified as current only when we expect to pay cash within the next 12 months. Interest and penalties, if any, are recorded in  Provision for taxes on income  and are classified on our consolidated balance sheet with the related
tax liability.      We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions and a certain degree of estimation is required in recording the assets and liabilities related to
income taxes. All of our tax positions are subject to audit by the local taxing authorities in each tax jurisdiction. Tax audits can involve complex issues and the resolution of issues may span multiple years, particularly if subject to negotiation
or litigation.       P. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans       We provide
defined benefit pension plans for the majority of employees worldwide. In the U.S., we have both qualified and supplemental (non-qualified) defined benefit plans, as well as other postretirement benefit plans, consisting primarily of healthcare and
life insurance for retirees. We recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of each of our defined benefit plans as an asset or liability on our consolidated balance sheet. The obligations are generally measured at the actuarial present value of
all benefits attributable to employee service rendered, as provided by the applicable benefit formula. Our pension and other postretirement obligations may include assumptions such as long-term rate of return on plan assets, expected employee
turnover and participant mortality. For our pension plans, the obligation may also include assumptions as to future compensation levels. For our other postretirement benefit plans, the obligation may include assumptions as to the expected cost of
providing the healthcare and life insurance benefits, as well as the extent to which those costs are shared with the employee or others (such as governmental programs). Plan assets are measured at fair value. Net periodic benefit costs are
recognized, as required, into  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative  and  Research and development expenses , as appropriate.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                     Q. Share-Based Payments       Our compensation programs can include share-based payments. All grants under share-based payment programs are accounted for at fair value and these fair values are generally amortized on an even basis over the vesting terms
into  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses  and  Research and development expenses , as appropriate.        2.   Acquisitions        We are committed to capitalizing on new growth opportunities, a strategy that can include
acquisitions of companies, products or technologies. During the three years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we acquired the following:       

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we concluded the acquisition of a number of animal health product lines from Schering-Plough Corporation (Schering-Plough) for sale in the
European Economic Area in the following categories: swine e.coli vaccines; equine influenza and tetanus vaccines; ruminant neonatal and clostridia vaccines; rabies vaccines; companion animal veterinary specialty products; and parasiticides and
anti-inflammatories. The cost of acquiring these product lines was approximately $170 million.          

In the second quarter of 2008, we acquired Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Encysive), a biopharmaceutical company, whose main product (Thelin), for the treatment of pulmonary
arterial hypertension, is commercially available in much of the E.U., is approved in certain other markets, and is under review by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The cost of acquiring Encysive, through a tender offer and subsequent
merger, was approximately $200 million, including transaction costs. Upon our acquisition of Encysive, Encysive s change of control repurchase obligations under its $130 million, 2.5% convertible notes came into effect and, as such, Encysive
repurchased the convertible notes in consideration for their par value plus accrued interest in June 2008. In addition, in the second quarter of 2008, we acquired Serenex, Inc. (Serenex), a privately held biotechnology company that owns SNX-5422, an
oral Heat Shock Protein 90 (Hsp90) inhibitor currently in phase I trials for the potential treatment of solid tumors and hematological malignancies, and an extensive Hsp90 inhibitor compound library, which has potential uses in treating cancer and
inflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases. In connection with these acquisitions, we recorded approximately $170 million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges  and approximately $450 million in intangible assets.

In the first quarter of 2008, we acquired CovX, a privately held biotherapeutics company specializing in preclinical oncology and metabolic research and the developer of a
biotherapeutics technology platform that we expect will enhance our biologic portfolio. Also in the first quarter of 2008, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Coley Pharmaceutical Group, Inc., (Coley), a biopharmaceutical company
specializing in vaccines and drug candidates designed to fight certain cancers, allergy and asthma disorders, and autoimmune diseases, for approximately $230 million. In connection with these and two small acquisitions related to Animal Health, we
recorded approximately $440 million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges .          

In the first quarter of 2007, we acquired BioRexis Pharmaceutical Corp. (BioRexis), a privately held biopharmaceutical company with a novel technology platform for developing
new protein drug candidates, and Embrex, Inc. (Embrex), an animal health company that possesses a unique vaccine delivery system known as Inovoject that improves consistency and reliability by inoculating chicks while they are still in the egg. In
connection with these and other smaller acquisitions, we recorded $283 million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges .          

In February 2006, we completed the acquisition of the sanofi-aventis worldwide rights, including patent rights and production technology, to manufacture and sell Exubera, an
inhaled form of insulin, and the insulin-production business and facilities located in Frankfurt, Germany, previously jointly owned by Pfizer and sanofi-aventis, for approximately $1.4 billion in cash (including transaction costs). Substantially all
assets recorded in connection with this acquisition have now been written off. See  Note 4D. Certain Charges: Exubera . Prior to the acquisition, in connection with our collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis, we recorded a research and
development milestone due to us from sanofi-aventis of $118 million ($71 million, after tax) in 2006 in  Research and development expenses  upon the approval of Exubera in January 2006 by the FDA.          

In December 2006, we completed the acquisition of PowderMed Ltd. (PowderMed), a U.K. company which specializes in the emerging science of DNA-based vaccines for the treatment
of influenza and chronic viral diseases, and in May 2006, we completed the acquisition of Rinat Neurosciences Corp. (Rinat), a biologics company with several new central-nervous-system product candidates. In 2006, the aggregate cost of these and
other smaller acquisitions was approximately $880 million (including transaction costs). In connection with those transactions, we recorded $835 million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges .
          3.   Discontinued Operations        We evaluate our businesses and product lines periodically for strategic fit within our operations.      In the fourth quarter of 2006, we sold our Consumer Healthcare business for $16.6 billion, and recorded a gain of approximately $10.2 billion ($7.9 billion, net of tax) in  Gains on sales of discontinued operations net of tax  in
the consolidated statement of income for 2006. In 2007, we recorded a loss of approximately $70 million, net of tax, primarily related to the resolution of contingencies, such as purchase price adjustments and product warranty obligations, as well
as pension settlements. This business was composed of:       

substantially all of our former Consumer Healthcare segment;          

other associated amounts, such as purchase-accounting impacts, acquisition-related costs and restructuring and implementation costs related to our cost-reduction initiatives
that were previously reported in the Corporate/Other segment; and            

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                 

certain manufacturing facility assets and liabilities, which were previously part of our Pharmaceutical or Corporate/ Other segment but were included in the sale of our
Consumer Healthcare business. The net impact to the Pharmaceutical segment was not significant.         The results of this business are included in
 Income from discontinued operations net of tax  for 2006.      Legal title to certain assets and legal control of the business in certain non-U.S.
jurisdictions did not transfer to the buyer on the closing date of December 20, 2006, because the satisfaction of specific local requirements was pending. These operations represented a small portion of our former Consumer Healthcare business
and all of these transactions have now closed. In order to ensure that the buyer was placed in the same economic position as if the assets, operations and activities of those businesses had been transferred on the same date as the rest of the
business, we entered into an agreement that passed the risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer from December 20, 2006. We treated these delayed-close businesses as sold for accounting purposes on December 20, 2006.      We continued during 2008 and 2007, and we will continue for a period of time, to generate cash flows and to report gross revenues, income and expense activity that are associated
with our former Consumer Healthcare business, in continuing operations, although at a substantially reduced level. After the transfer of these activities, these cash flows and the income statement activity reported in continuing operations will be
eliminated. The activities that give rise to these impacts are transitional in nature and generally result from agreements that ensure and facilitate the orderly transfer of business operations to the new owner. For example, we entered into a number
of transition services agreements that allow the buyer sufficient time to prepare for the transfer of activities and to limit the risk of business disruption. The nature, magnitude and duration of the agreements vary depending on the specific
circumstances of the service, location and/or business need. The agreements can include the following: manufacturing and product supply, logistics, customer service, support of financial processes, procurement, human resources, facilities
management, data collection and information services. Most of these agreements extended for periods generally less than 24 months, but because of the inherent complexity of manufacturing processes and the risk of product flow disruption, some
manufacturing and product supply agreements were extended to 36 months. Included in continuing operations for 2008 and 2007 were the following amounts associated with these transition service agreements that will no longer occur after the full
transfer of activities to the new owner: for 2008, included in  Revenues  ($172 million),  Cost of Sales  ($162 million) and  Selling ,  informational and administrative expenses  ($3 million) and for 2007, included in
 Revenues  ($219 million),  Cost of Sales  ($194 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($15 million), and  Other  ( income)/deductions net  ($16 million income).      None of these agreements confers upon us the ability to influence the operating and/or financial policies of our former Consumer Healthcare business under its new ownership.
     The following amounts, primarily related to our former Consumer Healthcare business, which was sold in December 2006 for $16.6 billion, have been segregated from
continuing operations and included in  Discontinued operations net of tax  in the consolidated statements of income:       

Net cash flows of our discontinued operations from each of the categories of operating, investing and financing
activities were not significant.        4.   Certain Charges         A. Bextra and Certain Other Investigations       In January 2009, we entered into an agreement
in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice to resolve the previously reported investigation regarding allegations of past off-label promotional practices concerning Bextra, as well as certain other open investigations. In connection with these
actions, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a charge of $2.3 billion, pre-tax and after-tax, in  Other (income)/deductions net  and such amount is included in  Other current liabilities . (See  Note 19D. Legal Proceedings
and Contingencies: Government Investigations and Requests for Information .)         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                     B. Certain Product Litigation Celebrex and Bextra       In October 2008, we reached agreements in principle to resolve the pending U.S. consumer fraud purported class action cases and more than 90% of the known U.S. personal injury
claims involving Celebrex and Bextra, and we reached agreements to resolve substantially all of the claims of state attorneys general primarily relating to alleged Bextra promotional practices. In connection with these actions, in the third quarter
of 2008, we recorded pre-tax charges of approximately:       

$745 million applicable to all known U.S. personal injury claims;          

$89 million applicable to the pending U.S. consumer fraud purported class action cases; and          

$60 million applicable to agreements to resolve civil claims brought by 33 states and the District of Columbia, primarily relating to alleged Bextra promotional practices.
Under these agreements, we made a payment of $60 million to the states and have adopted compliance measures that complement policies and procedures previously established by us.         These litigation-related charges were recorded in  Other (income)/deductions net . Virtually all of this amount is included in  Other current liabilities . Although
we believe that we have insurance coverage for a portion of the proposed personal injury settlements, no insurance recoveries have been recorded.      We believe that
the charges of approximately $745 million will be sufficient to resolve all known U.S. personal injury claims, including those not being settled at this time. However, additional charges may have to be taken in the future in connection with certain
pending claims and unknown claims relating to Celebrex and Bextra. (See  Note 19B. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies: Product Litigation .)       C. Adjustment of Prior Years  Liabilities for Product Returns       Revenues in 2008 include a reduction of $217 million, pre-tax, to adjust our
prior years  liabilities for product returns. After a detailed review in 2008 of our returns experience, we determined that our previous accounting methodology for product returns needed to be revised, as the lag time between product sale and
return was actually longer than we had previously assumed. Although fully recorded in 2008, virtually all of the adjustment relates back several years.      We performed
an evaluation of the impact of this error on prior years, as well the impact of correcting the error on a cumulative basis in 2008. As a result of that analysis, we determined that the cumulative correction was not material to our results for 2008
and the cumulative correction was recorded in 2008. We have also reviewed our expense calculations for the prior years and determined that the expense recorded in those years was not materially different from what would have been recorded under our
revised approach.       D. Exubera       In the third quarter of 2007, after an
assessment of the financial performance of Exubera, an inhalable form of insulin for the treatment of diabetes, as well as its lack of acceptance by patients, physicians and payers, we decided to exit the product.      In connection with these actions, we recorded total pre-tax charges of $2.8 billion, virtually all of which were recorded in the third quarter of 2007. These charges were included
primarily in  Cost of sales  ($2.6 billion),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($85 million), and  Research and development expenses  ($100 million). The charges comprised asset write-offs of $2.2 billion
(intangibles, inventory and fixed assets) and other exit costs, primarily severance, contract and other termination costs. The exit costs resulted in cash expenditures in 2007 and 2008. As of December 31, 2008, the remaining accrual for other
exit costs is approximately $152 million. Substantially all of this cash spending is expected to be completed in 2009.        5.   Cost-Reduction Initiatives        In the first quarter of 2005, we launched cost-reduction and transformation initiatives to increase
efficiency and streamline decision-making across the company. These initiatives, announced in April 2005, broadened in October 2006 and expanded in January 2007, followed the integration of Warner-Lambert and Pharmacia. In January 2009, we announced
a new cost-reduction initiative, the implementation of which we expect will be completed by the end of 2010.      We incurred the following costs in connection with all
of our cost-reduction initiatives:       

(a)     
    For 2008, included in  Cost of sales  ($745 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($413
million),  Research and development expenses  ($433 million) and  Other (income)/deductions net  ($14 million). For 2007, included in  Cost of sales  ($700 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($334
million),  Research and development expenses  ($416 million), and  Other (income)/deductions net  ($61 million income). For 2006, included in  Cost of sales  ($392 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses
 ($243 million),  Research and development expenses  ($176 million), and  Other (income)/deductions net  ($23 million income).      

(b)     
    Included in  Restructuring charges and acquisition-related costs .            

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    From the beginning of the cost-reduction and transformation initiatives in 2005 through
December 31, 2008, the restructuring charges primarily relate to our supply network transformation efforts and the restructuring of our worldwide marketing and research and development operations, and the implementation costs primarily relate
to accelerated depreciation of certain assets, as well as system and process standardization and the expansion of shared services.      The components of restructuring
charges associated with all of our cost-reduction initiatives follow:       

(a)    
      Includes adjustments for foreign currency translation.      

(b)    
      Included in  Other current liabilities  ($1.5 billion) and  Other noncurrent liabilities  ($636 million).
        From the beginning of the cost-reduction and transformation initiatives in 2005 through December 31, 2008,  Employee termination costs 
  represent the expected reduction of the workforce by approximately 30,700 employees, mainly in manufacturing, sales and research; and approximately 19,500 of these employees have been terminated.  Employee termination costs  are recorded
when the actions are probable and estimable and include accrued severance benefits, pension and postretirement benefits.  Asset impairments  primarily include charges to write down property, plant and equipment.  Other  primarily includes
costs to exit certain activities.        6.   Other (Income)/Deductions Net        The components of  Other (income)/deductions net  follow:       

(c)     
    In 2007, includes a gain of $211 million related to the sale of a building in Korea. In 2008, gross realized gains were $20
million and gross realized losses were nil on sales of available-for-sale securities. In 2007, gross realized gains were $8 million and gross realized losses were nil on sales of available-for-sale securities. In 2006, gross realized gains were $65
million and gross realized losses were $1 million on sales of available-for-sale securities. Proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities were $2.2 billion in 2008, $663 million in 2007 and $79 million in 2006.

(d)     
    In 2008, primarily includes charges of $2.3 billion resulting from an agreement in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice
to resolve the previously reported investigation regarding allegations of past off-label promotional practices concerning Bextra, as well as certain other open investigations, and charges of $900 million related to our agreements and our agreements
in principle to resolve certain litigation and claims involving our non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID) pain medicines. (See  Note 4A. Certain Charges: Bextra and Certain Other Investigations  and  Note 4B. Certain Charges: Certain
Product Litigation   Celebrex and Bextra.)       

(e)     
    In 2006, we recorded a charge of $320 million related to the impairment of our Depo-Provera intangible asset, for which
amortization expense was included in  Amortization of intangible assets .           7.  
Taxes on Income         A. Adoption of New Accounting Standard       As of
January 1, 2007, we adopted the provisions of FIN 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of SFAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes , as supplemented by FASB FSP FIN 48-1,  Definition of Settlement in FASB
Interpretation No. 48 , issued May 2, 2007. See  Note 1O. Significant Accounting Policies: Income Tax Contingencies  for a full description of our accounting policy related to the accounting for income tax contingencies. As a
result of the implementation of FIN 48, as amended, at the date of adoption, we reduced our existing liabilities for uncertain tax positions by approximately $11 million, recorded as a direct adjustment to the opening balance of  Retained
earnings  as of January 1, 2007, and changed the classification of virtually all  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                   
 amounts associated with uncertain tax positions of approximately $4.0 billion, including the associated accrued interest of approximately $780 million, from current to
noncurrent. (See  Note 7E. Taxes on Income: Tax Contingencies .)       B. Taxes on Income        Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income, and minority interests  consists of the following:       
    The decrease in domestic income from continuing operations before taxes in 2008 compared to 2007 is due primarily to charges
of $2.3 billion resulting from an agreement in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice to resolve the previously reported investigation regarding allegations of past off-label promotional practices concerning Bextra, as well as certain
other open investigations (see  Note 4A .  Certain Charges: Bextra and Certain Other Investigations) , and charges of $900 million related to our agreements and our agreements in principle to resolve certain litigation and claims involving
our NSAID pain medicines (see  Note 4B .  Certain Charges: Certain Product Litigation Celebrex and Bextra) , and an increase in restructuring charges in 2008 compared to 2007, partially offset by the charges associated with Exubera in
2007 (see  Note 4D. Certain Charges: Exubera ). The increase in international income from continuing operations before taxes in 2008 compared to 2007 is due primarily to the charges associated with Exubera in 2007 (see  Note 4D. Certain
Charges: Exubera ).      The decrease in domestic income from continuing operations before taxes in 2007 compared to 2006 is due primarily to the volume and geographic
mix of product sales and restructuring charges in 2007 compared to 2006, as well as the impact of charges associated with Exubera, partially offset by lower IPR D charges in 2007 of $283 million, primarily related to our acquisitions of Biorexis
and Embrex, compared to IPR D charges in 2006 of $835 million, primarily related to our acquisitions of Rinat and PowderMed.       Provision for taxes on income 
consists of the following:       

(a)     
    Excludes federal, state and international expense of approximately $4 million in 2008, $1 million in 2007, and a benefit of $119
million in 2006, primarily related to the resolution of certain tax positions related to Pharmacia, which were debited or credited to  Goodwill , as appropriate.         In 2008, we effectively settled certain issues common among multinational corporations with various foreign tax authorities primarily relating to years 2000 through 2005. As a result, we recognized $305 million in tax benefits.
Also, in 2008, we sold one of our biopharmaceutical companies, Esperion Therapeutics, Inc. (Esperion), to a newly formed company that is majority-owned by a group of venture capital firms. The sale, for nominal consideration, resulted in a loss for
tax purposes that reduced our tax expense by $426 million. This tax benefit is a result of the significant initial investment in Esperion in 2004, primarily reported as an income statement charge for in-process research and development at
acquisition date. 2008 also reflects the impact of the third-quarter 2008 provision for the proposed resolution of certain Bextra and Celebrex civil litigation and the impact of the fourth-quarter 2008 provision for the proposed resolution of
certain investigations, which are either not deductible or deductible at lower tax rates.      In 2006, we were notified by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Appeals
Division that a resolution had been reached on the matter that we were in the process of appealing related to the tax deductibility of an acquisition-related breakup fee paid by the Warner-Lambert Company in 2000. As a result, we recorded a tax
benefit of approximately $441 million related to the resolution of this issue (see  Note 7E. Taxes on Income: Tax Contingencies ). Also in 2006, we recorded a decrease to the 2005 estimated U.S. tax provision related to the repatriation of
foreign earnings, due primarily to the receipt of information that raised our assessment of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of a certain position, and we recognized a tax benefit of $124 million. Additionally, in 2006, the IRS
issued final regulations on Statutory Mergers and Consolidations, which impacted certain prior-period transactions, and we recorded a tax benefit of $217 million, reflecting the total impact of these regulations.      Amounts reflected in the preceding tables are based on the location of the taxing authorities.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                     C. Tax Rate Reconciliation       Reconciliation of the U.S. statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate for income from continuing operations follows:       

For earnings taxed at other than the U.S. rate, this rate impact reflects the fact that we operate manufacturing subsidiaries
in Puerto Rico, Ireland and Singapore. We benefit from Puerto Rican incentive grants that expire between 2019 and 2029. Under the grants, we are partially exempt from income, property and municipal taxes. Under Section 936 of the U.S. Internal
Revenue Code, Pfizer was a  grandfathered  entity and was entitled to the benefits under such statute until September 30, 2006. In Ireland, we benefit from an incentive tax rate effective through 2010 on income from manufacturing
operations. In Singapore, we benefit from incentive tax rates effective through 2031 on income from manufacturing operations. This rate impact also reflects the jurisdictional location of earnings, realization of approximately $711 million (tax
effect) in net operating losses, as well as the costs of certain repatriation decisions.      For a discussion about the sale of the biopharmaceutical company, proposed
legal settlements, the tax legislation impact and the repatriation of foreign earnings, see  Note 7B. Taxes on Income: Taxes on Income . For a discussion about the resolution of certain tax positions, see  Note 7E. Taxes on Income: Tax
Contingencies . On October 3, 2008, the Tax Extenders and Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act (the Extenders Act) extended the research and development tax credit from January 1, 2008, through December 31, 2009. The charges for
acquired IPR D in 2008, 2007 and 2006 are primarily not deductible.       D. Deferred Taxes       Deferred taxes arise as a result of basis differentials between financial statement accounting and tax amounts.      The tax effect of the major
items recorded as deferred tax assets and liabilities, shown before jurisdictional netting, as of December 31, is as follows:       
    The reduction in the net deferred tax liability position in 2008 compared to 2007 is primarily due to amortization of
noncurrent deferred tax liabilities related to identifiable intangibles in connection with our acquisition of Pharmacia in 2003, an increase in the noncurrent deferred tax asset on employee benefits and net operating loss carryovers, and an increase
in the current deferred tax asset on restructuring charges, partially offset by an increase in the current deferred tax liability on unremitted earnings.      We have
carryforwards, primarily related to foreign tax credit carryovers and net operating loss carryovers, which are available to reduce future U.S. federal and state, as well as international, income with either an indefinite life or expiring at various
times between 2009 and 2028. Certain of our U.S. net operating losses are subject to limitations under Internal Revenue Code Section 382.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    Valuation allowances are provided when we believe that our deferred tax assets are not recoverable
based on an assessment of estimated future taxable income that incorporates ongoing, prudent, feasible tax planning strategies.      As of December 31, 2008, we have
not made a U.S. tax provision on approximately $63.1 billion of unremitted earnings of our international subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2008, these earnings are intended to be permanently reinvested overseas; as such, it is not practical to
compute the estimated deferred tax liability on these permanently reinvested earnings.      Deferred tax assets and liabilities in the preceding table, netted by taxing
jurisdiction, are in the following captions in our consolidated balance sheets:       
     E. Tax Contingencies       We are
subject to income tax in many jurisdictions and a certain degree of estimation is required in recording the assets and liabilities related to income taxes. For a description of our accounting policy associated with accounting for income tax
contingencies, see  Note 1O. Significant Accounting Policies: Income Tax Contingencies . All of our tax positions are subject to audit by the local taxing authorities in each tax jurisdiction. Tax audits can involve complex issues and the
resolution of issues may span multiple years, particularly if subject to negotiation or litigation.      The United States is one of our major tax jurisdictions. We are
currently appealing two issues related to the IRS  audits of the Pfizer Inc. tax returns for the years 2002 through 2005. The 2006, 2007 and 2008 tax years are currently under audit as part of the IRS Compliance Assurance Process, a real-time
audit process. All other tax years in the U.S. for Pfizer Inc. are closed under the statute of limitations. With respect to Pharmacia Corporation, the IRS is currently conducting an audit for the year 2003 through the date of merger with Pfizer
(April 16, 2003). In addition to the open audit years in the U.S., we have open audit years in other major tax jurisdictions, such as Canada (1998-2008), Japan (2006-2008), Europe (1996-2008, primarily reflecting Ireland, the U.K., France, Italy,
Spain and Germany) and Puerto Rico (2004-2008).      We regularly reevaluate our tax positions based on the results of audits of federal, state and foreign income tax
filings, statute of limitations expirations, and changes in tax law that would either increase or decrease the technical merits of a position relative to the  more-likely-than-not  standard. We believe that our accruals for tax liabilities
are adequate for all open years. Many factors are considered in making these evaluations, including past history, recent interpretations of tax law, and the specifics of each matter. Because tax laws and regulations are subject to interpretation and
tax litigation is inherently uncertain, these evaluations can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions (see  Note 1C. Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and
Assumptions ). Our evaluations are based on estimates and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by management. However, if our estimates and assumptions are not representative of actual outcomes, our results could be materially impacted.
     In 2008, we effectively settled certain issues common among multinational corporations with various foreign tax authorities primarily relating to tax years 2000 to
2005. As a result, we recognized $305 million in tax benefits.      Because tax law is complex and often subject to varied interpretations, it is uncertain whether some
of our tax positions will be sustained upon audit. The amounts associated with uncertain tax positions in 2008 and 2007 are as follows:       

(a)     
    Included in  Other assets, deferred taxes and deferred charges .      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    Tax liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions represent unrecognized tax benefits, which
arise when the estimated benefit recorded in our financial statements differs from the amounts taken or expected to be taken in a tax return because of the uncertainties described above. These unrecognized tax benefits relate primarily to issues
common among multinational corporations. Substantially all of these unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would impact our effective income tax rate.      Tax assets
associated with uncertain tax positions represent our estimate of the potential tax benefits in one tax jurisdiction that could result from the payment of income taxes in another tax jurisdiction. These potential benefits generally result from
cooperative efforts among taxing authorities, as required by tax treaties to minimize double taxation, commonly referred to as the competent authority process. The recoverability of these assets, which we believe to be more likely than not, is
dependent upon the actual payment of taxes in one tax jurisdiction and, in some cases, the successful petition for recovery in another tax jurisdiction.      A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits and accrued interest is as follows:       

(a)     
    Decreases are primarily a result of effectively settling certain issues with various foreign tax authorities for a net benefit of
$305 million, reflecting the reversal of the related tax assets associated with the competent authority process ( see Note 7B. Taxes on Income: Taxes on Income ).      

(b)     
    Primarily included in  Provision for taxes   on income .      

(c)     
    Includes increases based on tax positions taken during a prior period, decreases due to settlements with taxing authorities and
decreases as a result of a lapse of the applicable statute of limitations.      

(d)     
    In 2008, included in  Income taxes payable  ($85 million),  Taxes and other current assets  ($44 million) and  Other
taxes payable  ($6.6 billion). In 2007, included in  Income   taxes payable  ($358 million),  Taxes and other current assets  ($50 million) and  Other taxes payable  ($6.2 billion).         If our estimates of unrecognized tax benefits and potential tax benefits are not representative of actual outcomes, our financial statements could be materially affected in the
period of settlement or when the statutes of limitations expire, as we treat these events as discrete items in the period of resolution. Finalizing audits with the relevant taxing authorities can include formal administrative and legal proceedings
and, as a result, it is difficult to estimate the timing and range of possible change related to our uncertain tax positions. However, any settlements or statute expirations would likely result in a significant decrease in our uncertain tax
positions. We estimate that within the next 12 months, our gross uncertain tax positions could decrease by as much as $200 million, as a result of settlements with taxing authorities or the expiration of the statute of limitations.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                      8.   Other Comprehensive
Income/(Expense)        Changes, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income/(expense) follow:       

(a)     
      The currency translation adjustments reclassified to income result from the sale of businesses.

(b)     
    Includes pre-tax amounts for  Actuarial losses  of $4.3 billion and  Prior service costs/(credits) and other  of $27
million. See also  Note 13A. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans:   Adoption of New Accounting Standard .         Income taxes are not provided for foreign currency translation relating to permanent investments in international subsidiaries.      As of December 31,
2008, we estimate that we will reclassify into 2009 income the following pre-tax amounts currently held in  Accumulated other comprehensive income/(expense) : virtually all of the unrealized holding gains on derivative financial instruments;
$302 million of actuarial losses related to benefit plan obligations and plan assets and other benefit plan items; and $6 million of prior service credits related primarily to benefit plan amendments.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                      9.   Financial Instruments   
      A. Investments in Debt and Equity Securities       Information about our
investments as of December 31 follows:       
    These investments are in the following captions in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31 :  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    The contractual maturities of the available-for-sale and held-to-maturity debt securities as of
December 31, 2008, follow:       
     B. Short-Term Borrowings       Short-term borrowings include amounts for commercial paper of $7.8 billion as of December 31, 2008, and $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2007. The weighted-average effective interest rate on short-term borrowings outstanding was
1.9% as of December 31, 2008, and 3.4% as of December 31, 2007.      As of December 31, 2008, we had access to $7.2 billion of lines of credit, of which
$5.1 billion expire within one year. Of these lines of credit, $7.1 billion are unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $6.1 billion at our request. $6.0 billion of the unused lines of credit, of which $4.0 billion expire in 2009 and
$2.0 billion expire in 2013, may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings.       C. Long-Term Debt       Information about our long-term debt as of December 31 follows:       
    Long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2008, matures in the following years:       

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    In March 2007, we filed a securities registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The registration statement was filed under the automatic shelf registration process available to  well-known seasoned issuers  and is effective for three years. We can issue securities of various types under that registration
statement at any time, subject to approval by our Board of Directors in certain circumstances.       D. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities  
      Foreign Exchange Risk  A significant portion of revenues, earnings and net investments in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign exchange
rates. We seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing expected same currency revenues in relation to same currency costs and same currency assets in relation to same currency liabilities. Depending
on market conditions, foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. These financial instruments serve to protect net income and net investments against the impact of the
translation into U.S. dollars of certain foreign exchange denominated transactions.      We entered into financial instruments to hedge, or offset by the same currency,
an appropriate portion of the currency risk and the timing of the hedged or offset item. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the more significant financial instruments employed to manage foreign exchange risk follow:       

(a)     
    Forwards = Forward-exchange contracts; ST yen borrowings = Short-term yen borrowings; ST yen debt = Short-term yen debt; LT yen
debt = Long-term yen debt.      

(b)     
    The primary consolidated balance sheet caption indicates the financial statement classification of the amount associated with the
financial instrument used to hedge or offset foreign exchange risk. The abbreviations used are defined as follows: OCA =  Taxes and other current assets ; OA =  Other assets, deferred taxes and deferred charges ; STB =  Short-term
borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt ; OCL =  Other current liabilities ; LTD =  Long-term debt ; and ONCL =  Other noncurrent liabilities .      

(c)     
    CF = Cash flow hedge; NI = Net investment hedge.      

(d)     
    Forward-exchange contracts used to offset short-term foreign currency assets and liabilities were primarily for intercompany
transactions in euros, Japanese yen, Swedish krona and U.K. pounds for both years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.      

(e)     
    In 2007, reflects an increase in Swedish krona net investments due to the receipt of proceeds related to the sale of our Consumer
Healthcare business in Sweden in late 2006.         All derivative contracts used to manage foreign currency risk are measured at fair value and reported
as assets or liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. Changes in fair value are reported in earnings or deferred, depending on the nature and purpose of the financial instrument (offset or hedge relationship) and the effectiveness of the hedge
relationships, as follows:       

We recognize the earnings impact of foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forward-exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges in  Other
(income)/deductions net  upon the recognition of the foreign exchange gain or loss on the translation to U.S. dollars of the hedged items.          

We recognize the earnings impact of foreign currency swaps and forward-exchange contracts that are used to offset foreign currency assets or liabilities in  Other
(income)/deductions net  during the terms of the contracts, along with the earnings impact of the items they generally offset.          

We recognize the earnings impact of foreign currency swaps designated as a hedge of our net investments in  Other (income)/deductions net  in three ways: over
time-for the periodic net swap payments; immediately-to the extent of any change in the difference between the foreign exchange spot rate and forward rate; and upon sale or substantial liquidation of our net investments-to the extent of change in
the foreign exchange spot rates.            

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    Any ineffectiveness in a hedging relationship is recognized immediately into earnings. There was no
significant ineffectiveness in 2008, 2007 or 2006.       Interest Rate Risk  Our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to interest rate
risk. We invest, loan and borrow primarily on a short-term or variable-rate basis. From time to time, depending on market conditions, we will fix interest rates either through entering into fixed-rate investments and borrowings or through the use of
derivative financial instruments.      We entered into derivative financial instruments to hedge or offset the fixed interest rates on the hedged item, matching the
amount and timing of the hedged item. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the more significant derivative financial instruments employed to manage interest rate risk follow:       

(a)     
    The primary consolidated balance sheet caption indicates the financial statement classification of the fair value amount
associated with the financial instrument used to hedge or offset interest rate risk. The abbreviations used are defined as follows: OCA =  Taxes and other current assets ; OCL =  Other current liabilities ; ONCL =  Other noncurrent
liabilities ; and OA =  Other assets, deferred taxes and deferred charges .      

(b)     
    FV = Fair value hedge.      

(c)     
    Serve to reduce exposure to long-term U.S. dollar and euro interest rates by effectively converting fixed rates associated with
long-term debt obligations to floating rates (see also  Note 9C. Financial Instruments: Long-Term Debt ).         All derivative contracts used to
manage interest rate risk are measured at fair value and reported as assets or liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. Changes in fair value are reported in earnings, as follows:       

We recognize the earnings impact of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges in  Other (income)/deductions net  upon the recognition of the change in
fair value of the hedged risk.          

We recognize the earnings impact of interest rate swaps that serve as offsets immediately in  Other (income)/deductions   net .      
  Any ineffectiveness in a hedging relationship is recognized immediately in earnings. There was no significant ineffectiveness in 2008, 2007 or 2006.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                     E. Fair Value       Information about certain of our financial assets and liabilities follows:       

(a)     
    Fair values are determined based on valuation techniques categorized as follows: Level 1 means the use of quoted prices for
identical instruments in active markets; Level 2 means the use of quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active or are directly or indirectly observable;
Level 3 means the use of unobservable inputs.      

(b)     
    Included in  Long-term investments and loans .      

(c)     
    Included in  Short-term investments  ($20.9 billion) and  Long-term investments and loans  ($9.2 billion).

(d)     
    Included in  Short-term investments . Virtually all of these money market funds participate in the U.S. Treasury
Department s Temporary Guarantee Program for Money Market Funds.      

(e)     
      Included in  Taxes and other current assets  ($404 million) and  Other assets, deferred taxes and deferred
charges  ($855 million).      

(f)     
    Included in  Cash and cash equivalents  ($2.0 billion),  Short-term investments  ($355 million) and  Long-term
investments and loans  ($14 million).      

(g)     
    Included in  Other current liabilities  ($1.1 billion) and  Other noncurrent liabilities  ($124 million).
        The differences between the estimated fair values and carrying values of our financial assets and liabilities not carried at fair value on a
recurring basis were not significant as of December 31, 2008. See also  Note 9A. Financial Instruments: Investments in Debt and Equity Securities .      As of
December 31, 2008, the following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities:       

Trading securities we use quoted market prices.          

Available-for-sale debt securities we use a matrix-pricing model using observable market quotes and credit ratings.          

Available-for-sale money market funds we use observable prices.          

Available-for-sale equity securities, excluding money market funds we use pricing services that principally use a composite of observable prices.

Derivative financial instruments (assets and liabilities) we use a matrix-pricing model using observable market quotes and credit ratings.      

Held-to-maturity debt securities we use a matrix-pricing model using observable market quotes and credit ratings.          

Short-term and long-term loans we use discounted future cash flows using current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and
for the same remaining maturities.          

Non-traded equity securities we apply the implied volatility associated with an observable biotech index to the carrying amount of our portfolio.

Short-term borrowings and long-term debt we use a matrix-pricing model using observable market quotes and our own credit rating.         In addition, we have long-term receivables where fair value uses discounted future cash flows, using current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar
credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    We regularly evaluate all of our financial assets for impairment. For investments in debt and equity
securities, when a decline in fair value, if any, is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. For loans, an impairment charge is recorded if it is probable that we
will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan agreement. There were no significant impairments recognized in 2008, 2007 or 2006.       F. Credit
Risk       We regularly review the creditworthiness of counterparties to foreign exchange and interest rate agreements and do not expect to incur a significant loss
from failure of any counterparties to perform under the agreements.      There are no significant concentrations of credit risk related to our financial instruments with
any individual counterparty. As of December 31, 2008, we had $3.8 billion due from a well-diversified, highly rated group (primarily Standard   Poor s rating of AA or better) of bank counterparties around the world.      In general, there is no requirement for collateral from customers. However, derivative financial instruments are executed under master netting agreements with financial
institutions. These agreements contain provisions that provide for the ability for collateral payments, depending on levels of exposure, our credit rating and the credit rating of the counterparty. As of December 31, 2008, we advanced cash
collateral of $497 million and received cash collateral of $510 million against various counterparties. The collateral primarily supports the approximate fair value of our derivative contracts. The collateral advanced receivables are reported in
 Short-term loans , and the collateral received obligations are reported in  Short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt.         10  . Inventories        The components of inventories as of December 31 follow:       
      11  . Property, Plant and Equipment     
  The major categories of property, plant and equipment as of December 31 follow:       
      12  . Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
        A. Goodwill       The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by
segment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, follow:       

(a)     
    In 2008, primarily related to our acquisitions of Coley and a number of animal health product lines from Schering-Plough, as well
as two smaller acquisitions also related to Animal Health. In 2007, primarily related to our acquisition of Embrex.      

(b)     
    In 2008, primarily relates to tax adjustments and the impact of foreign exchange. In 2007, primarily relates to the impact of
foreign exchange.            

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                     B. Other Intangible Assets       The components of identifiable intangible assets, primarily included in our Pharmaceutical segment, as of December 31 follow:       
    Developed technology rights represent the amortized value associated with developed technology, which has been acquired from
third parties and which can include the right to develop, use, market, sell and/or offer for sale the product, compounds and intellectual property that we have acquired with respect to products, compounds and/or processes that have been completed.
We possess a well-diversified portfolio of hundreds of developed technology rights across therapeutic categories, primarily representing the commercialized products included in our Pharmaceutical segment that we acquired in connection with our
Pharmacia acquisition in 2003. While the Arthritis and Pain therapeutic category represents about 29% of the total amortized value of developed technology rights as of December 31, 2008, the balance of the amortized value is distributed in a
range of 5% to 15% across the following Pharmaceutical therapeutic product categories: Ophthalmology; Oncology; Urology; Infectious and Respiratory Diseases; Endocrine Disorders categories; and as a group, the Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases,
Central Nervous System Disorders and All Other categories. The significant components include values determined for Celebrex, Detrol/Detrol LA, Xalatan, Genotropin and Zyvox. Also included in this category are the post-approval milestone payments
made under our alliance agreements for certain Pharmaceutical products, such as Rebif and Spiriva. These rights are all subject to our review for impairment, explained in  Note 1K. Significant Accounting Policies: Amortization of Intangible
Assets, Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived Assets.       The weighted-average life of our total finite-lived intangible assets is approximately seven years, which
includes developed technology rights at eight years. Total amortization expense for finite-lived intangible assets was $2.8 billion in 2008, $3.2 billion in 2007 and $3.4 billion in 2006.      Brands represent the amortized value associated with tradenames, as the products themselves no longer receive patent protection. Most of these assets are associated with our Pharmaceutical segment and the significant components
include values determined for Depo-Provera, Xanax and Medrol.      In 2007, we recorded charges of $1.1 billion in  Cost of sales  and  Selling, informational and
administrative expenses  related to the impairment of Exubera (included in our Pharmaceutical segment) (see  Note 4D. Certain Charges: Exubera ). In 2006, we recorded charges of $320 million in  Other   (income)/deductions net
 related to the impairment of our Depo-Provera brand, a contraceptive injection (included in our Pharmaceutical segment).      The annual amortization expense expected
for the years 2009 through 2013 is as follows:       

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                      13.   Pension and Postretirement
Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans        We provide defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for the majority of our employees
worldwide. In the U.S., we have both qualified and supplemental (non-qualified) defined benefit plans. A qualified plan meets the requirements of certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code and, generally, contributions to qualified plans are tax
deductible. A qualified plan typically provides benefits to a broad group of employees and may not discriminate in favor of highly compensated employees in its coverage, benefits or contributions. We also provide benefits through supplemental
(non-qualified) retirement plans to certain employees. In addition, we provide medical and life insurance benefits to certain retirees and their eligible dependents through our postretirement plans.      We use a measurement date that coincides with our fiscal year-ends; December 31 for our U.S. pension and postretirement plans and November 30 for our international plans.
During 2006, pursuant to the divestiture of our Consumer Healthcare business, certain defined benefit obligations and related plan assets, if applicable, were transferred to the purchaser of that business.       A. Adoption of New Accounting Standard       As of December 31, 2006, we adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans (an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132R),  which requires us to recognize on our balance sheet the
difference between our benefit obligations and any plan assets of our defined benefit plans. In addition, we are required to recognize as part of other comprehensive income/(expense), net of taxes, gains and losses due to differences between our
actuarial assumptions and actual experience (actuarial gains and losses) and any effects on prior service due to plan amendments (prior service costs or credits) that arise during the period and are not being recognized as net periodic benefit
costs. Upon adoption, SFAS 158 requires the recognition of previously unrecognized actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs and credits and net transition amounts within  Accumulated other comprehensive income/(expense),  net of tax. The
incremental impact of applying SFAS 158 to our balance sheet as of December 31, 2006, was to reduce our total shareholders  equity by $2.1 billion, primarily due to the recognition of previously unrecognized actuarial losses.   
   B. Components of Net Periodic Benefit Costs and Other Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive (Income)/Expense       The annual cost and other amounts recognized in other comprehensive (income)/expense of the U.S. qualified, U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) and international pension plans and
postretirement plans for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, follow:       
    The decrease in the 2008 U.S. qualified pension plans  net periodic benefit cost compared to 2007 was largely driven by
the increase in the discount rate and the impact of our cost-reduction initiatives. The decrease in the 2007 U.S. qualified pension plans  net periodic benefit cost compared to 2006 was largely driven by a higher 2006 actual investment return,
the increase in the discount rate and the impact of our cost-reduction initiatives.      The increase in the 2008 U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) plans  net
periodic benefit costs compared to 2007 was largely driven by settlement charges required to be recognized due to lump sum benefit payments made to certain of our former executive officers and other former executives in 2008.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    The decrease in the 2007 international plans  net periodic benefit cost compared to 2006 was
largely driven by a settlement gain at our Japanese affiliate. Japanese pension regulations permit employers with certain pension obligations to separate the social security benefits portion of those obligations and transfer it, along with related
plan assets, to the Japanese government. During 2007, our Japanese affiliate completed this transfer and effectively received a subsidy from the Japanese government of approximately $168 million. This subsidy was the result of the transfer of
pension obligations of approximately $309 million (excluding the effect of any future salary increases of approximately $9 million) along with related plan assets of approximately $141 million. This transfer resulted in a settlement gain of
approximately $106 million.      The following table presents the amount in  Accumulated other comprehensive income/(expense)  expected to be amortized into 2009
net periodic benefit costs:       
     C. Actuarial Assumptions       The
following table provides the weighted-average actuarial assumptions:       
    The assumptions above are used to develop the benefit obligations at fiscal year-end and to develop the net periodic benefit
cost for the subsequent fiscal year. Therefore, the assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for each year are established at the end of each previous year, while the assumptions used to determine benefit obligations were established
at each year-end.      The net periodic benefit cost and the benefit obligations are based on actuarial assumptions that are reviewed on an annual basis. We revise these
assumptions based on an annual evaluation of long-term trends, as well as market conditions that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits.      The
expected rates of return on plan assets for our U.S. qualified, international and postretirement plans represent our long-term assessment of return expectations, which we may change based on shifts in economic and financial market conditions. The
2008 expected rates of return for these plans reflect our long-term outlook for a globally diversified portfolio, which is influenced by a combination of return expectations for individual asset classes, actual historical experience and our
diversified investment strategy. The historical returns are one of the inputs used to provide context for the development of our expectations for future returns. Using this information, we develop ranges of returns for each asset class and a
weighted-average expected return for our targeted portfolio, which includes the impact of portfolio diversification and active portfolio management.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    The healthcare cost trend rate assumptions for our U.S. postretirement benefit plans are as follows:
      
    A one-percentage-point increase or decrease in the healthcare cost trend rate assumed for postretirement benefits would have
the following effects as of December 31, 2008:       

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)  
      
  INCREASE  
      
  DECREASE  

Effect on total service and interest cost components   
      
  $  17  
      
  $  (14  
  )  

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  135  
      
  (115  
  )  

D. Obligations and Funded Status       The following table presents an analysis of the changes in 2008 and 2007 in the benefit obligations, the plan assets and the accounting funded status of our U.S. qualified, U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) and international pension plans,
and our postretirement plans:       

(a)     
      For the U.S. and international pension plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation. For the
postretirement plans, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation.         The unfavorable change in our U.S. qualified
plans projected benefit obligations funded status from $533 million overfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2007, to $1.9 billion underfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2008, was largely driven by the reduction in plan
assets due to investment losses and the 0.1 percentage-point reduction in discount rate. In 2008, contributions to our U.S. qualified plans were not significant. In 2007, we made required U.S. qualified plan contributions of $6 million and voluntary
tax-deductible contributions in excess of minimum requirements of $100 million to certain of our U.S. qualified pension plans. In the aggregate, the U.S. qualified pension plans are underfunded on a projected benefit measurement basis and on an
accumulated benefit obligation measurement basis as of December 31, 2008, and overfunded on a projected benefit measurement basis and on an accumulated benefit obligation measurement basis as of December 31, 2007.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    The U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans are not generally funded, as there are no tax or
other incentives that exist, and these obligations, which are substantially greater than the annual cash outlay for these liabilities, are paid from cash generated from operations.      The unfavorable change in our international plans projected benefit obligations funded status from $1.3 billion underfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2007, to $1.5 billion underfunded in the aggregate as of
December 31, 2008, was largely driven by investments losses in the U.K., Japan and other European plans, somewhat offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound and euro. Outside the U.S., in general, we fund our
defined benefit plans to the extent that tax or other incentives exist and we have accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets to reflect those plans that are not fully funded.      The favorable change in our postretirement plans projected benefit obligations funded status from $1.8 billion underfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2007, to $1.7 billion underfunded in the aggregate as of
December 31, 2008, was largely driven by the impact of our cost-reduction initiatives, partially offset by the 0.1 percentage-point decrease in the discount rate.      The accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) for our U.S. qualified pension plans were $7.0 billion in 2008 and $6.6 billion in 2007. The ABO for our U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans was $762 million in 2008 and $849 million in
2007. The ABO for our international pension plans was $5.3 billion in 2008 and $6.8 billion in 2007.      The U.S. qualified pension plans loan securities to other
companies. Such securities may be onward loaned, or sold, or pledged by the other companies, but they may be required to be returned in a short period of time. We also require cash collateral from these companies and a maintenance margin of 103% of
the fair value of the collateral relative to the fair value of the loaned securities. As of December 31, 2008, the fair value of collateral received was $572 million. The securities loaned continue to be included in the table above in  Fair
value of plan assets at end of year .      Amounts recognized in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31 follow:       
    Amounts recognized in  Accumulated other comprehensive income/(expense)  as of December 31 follow:       
    The actuarial losses primarily represent the cumulative difference between the actuarial assumptions and actual return on
plan assets, changes in discount rates and plan experience. These actuarial losses are recognized in  Accumulated other comprehensive income/(expense)  and are amortized into net periodic pension costs over an average period of 10 years for our
U.S. plans and an average period of 12.5 years for our international plans.      Information related to the U.S. qualified, U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) and
international pension plans as of December 31 follows:       
    All of our U.S. plans are underfunded as of December 31, 2008.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                     E. Plan Assets       The following table presents the weighted-average long-term target asset allocations and the percentages of the fair value of plan assets for our U.S. qualified and international pension plans and postretirement plans by investment category
as of December 31:       
    All long-term asset allocation targets reflect our asset class return expectations and tolerance for investment risk within
the context of the respective plans  long-term benefit obligations. The long-term asset allocation is supported by an analysis that incorporates historical and expected returns by asset class, as well as volatilities and correlations across
asset classes and our liability profile. This analysis, referred to as an asset-liability analysis, also provides an estimate of expected returns on plan assets, as well as a forecast of potential future asset and liability balances. Due to market
conditions and other factors, actual asset allocations may vary from the target allocation outlined above. For the U.S. qualified pension plans, in late 2007, we modified our strategic asset target allocation to reduce the volatility of our plan
funded status and the probability of future contribution requirements. Our target allocations were revised to increase the debt securities allocation by 10% and to reduce the global equity securities allocation by a corresponding amount. The
year-end 2008 cash allocations of 2.3% for U.S. qualified pensions plans and 8.7% for international pension plans were above the target allocation, primarily due to cash raised from the termination of certain investment strategies, which will be
redeployed during 2009. The assets are periodically rebalanced back to the target allocation.      The U.S. qualified pension plans held no shares of our common stock as
of December 31, 2008 and 2007. The plans received no dividends on shares of our common stock in 2008 and approximately $12 million in dividends on shares of our common stock in 2007.       F. Cash Flows       It is our practice to fund amounts for our qualified pension plans that are at least sufficient to meet the minimum
requirements set forth in applicable employee benefit laws and local tax laws.      The following table presents expected cash flow information:       

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    The table reflects the total U.S. and international plan benefits projected to be paid from the plans
or from our general assets under the current actuarial assumptions used for the calculation of the benefit obligation and, therefore, actual benefit payments may differ from projected benefit payments.       G. Defined Contribution Plans       We have savings and investment plans in several countries,
including the U.S., Japan, Spain and the Netherlands. For the U.S. plans, employees may contribute a portion of their salaries and bonuses to the plans, and we match, largely in company stock, a portion of the employee contributions. In the U.S.,
the matching contributions in company stock are made through open market purchases and employees are permitted to subsequently diversify all or any portion of their company match contribution. The contribution match for certain legacy Pfizer U.S.
participants is held in an employee stock ownership plan. We recorded charges related to our plans of $198 million in 2008, $203 million in 2007 and $222 million in 2006.        14.   Equity         A. Common Stock       We purchase our common stock via privately negotiated transactions or in open market purchases as circumstances and prices warrant. Purchased shares under each of the
share-purchase programs, which are authorized by our Board of Directors, are available for general corporate purposes.      A summary of common stock purchases follows:
      
    In January 2008, we announced a new $5 billion share-purchase program, to be funded by operating cash flows, that may be
utilized from time to time. On January 26, 2009, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we will acquire Wyeth in a cash-and-stock transaction. (See  Note 21. Subsequent Event .) The merger
agreement limits our stock purchases to a maximum of $500 million prior to the completion of the transaction without Wyeth s consent.       B. Preferred Stock  
     The Series A convertible perpetual preferred stock is held by an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( Preferred ESOP ) Trust and provides dividends at the rate
of 6.25%, which are accumulated and paid quarterly. The per-share stated value is $40,300 and the preferred stock ranks senior to our common stock as to dividends and liquidation rights. Each share is convertible, at the holder s option, into
2,574.87 shares of our common stock with equal voting rights. The conversion option is indexed to our common stock and requires share settlement, and therefore, is reported at the fair value at the date of issuance. We may redeem the preferred stock
at any time or upon termination of the Preferred ESOP, at our option, in cash, in shares of common stock or a combination of both at a price of $40,300 per share.       C. Employee Stock Ownership Plans       We have two employee stock ownership plans (collectively the  ESOPs ), a Preferred ESOP and another that
holds common stock of the company (Common ESOP). As of January 1, 2008, the legacy Pharmacia U.S. savings plan was merged with the Pfizer Savings Plan. Prior to the merger, a portion of the matching contributions for legacy Pharmacia U.S.
savings plan participants was funded through the ESOPs.      In January 2007, we paid the remaining balance of financing, which was outstanding prior to our acquisition
of Pharmacia in 2003, relating to the Preferred ESOP. Compensation expense related to the ESOPs totaled approximately $35 million in 2007 and $37 million in 2006.      Allocated shares held by the Common ESOP are considered outstanding for the earnings per share (EPS) calculations and the eventual conversion of allocated preferred shares held by the Preferred ESOP is assumed in the diluted EPS
calculation. As of December 31, 2008, the Preferred ESOP held preferred shares with a stated value of approximately $73 million, convertible into approximately 5 million shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, the Common
ESOP held approximately 6 million shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, all preferred and common shares held by the ESOPs have been allocated to the Pharmacia U.S. and certain Puerto Rico savings plan participants.
      D. Employee Benefit Trust       The Pfizer Inc Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) was
established in 1999 to fund our employee benefit plans through the use of its holdings of Pfizer Inc stock. Our consolidated balance sheets reflect the fair value of the shares owned by the EBT as a reduction of  Shareholders  equity. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                      15.   Share-Based Payments   
     Our compensation programs can include share-based payments. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the primary share-based awards and their general terms and conditions are as
follows:       

Stock options, which entitle the holder to purchase, after the end of a vesting term, a specified number of shares of Pfizer common stock at a price per share equal to the
market price of Pfizer common stock on the date of grant.          

Restricted stock units (RSUs), which entitle the holder to receive, at the end of a vesting term, a specified number of shares of Pfizer common stock, including shares
resulting from dividend equivalents paid on such RSUs.          

Performance share awards (PSAs) and performance-contingent share awards (PCSAs), which entitle the holder to receive, at the end of a vesting term, a number of shares of
Pfizer common stock, within a range of shares from zero to a specified maximum, calculated using a non-discretionary formula that measures Pfizer s performance relative to an industry peer group. Dividend equivalents accumulate on PSAs and are
paid at the end of the vesting term in respect to any shares that are paid.          

Short-term incentive awards, which entitle the holder to receive a specified dollar value on the first anniversary of the grant date, based upon performance. At the election
of the holder, such specified dollar value is paid: (i) all in RSUs, or half in RSUs and half in cash, in the case of senior management; and (ii) all in RSUs, all in cash, or half in RSUs and half in cash, in the case of all other holders.

Stock appreciation rights (SARs), which entitle the holder to receive, two years after the end of a vesting term, a number of shares of Pfizer common stock with a value equal
to the difference between the defined settlement price and the closing market price of Pfizer common stock on the date of grant, plus accumulated dividend equivalents through the payment date.          

Restricted stock grants, which entitle the holder to receive, at the end of a vesting term, a specified number of shares of Pfizer common stock, and which also entitle the
holder to receive dividends paid on such grants.         The Company s shareholders approved the Pfizer Inc. 2004 Stock Plan (the 2004 Plan) at the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on April 22, 2004, and, effective upon that approval, new stock option and other share-based awards may be granted only under the 2004 Plan. The 2004 Plan allows a maximum of 3 million shares to be
awarded to any employee per year and 475 million shares in total. RSUs, PSAs, PCSAs and restricted stock grants count as three shares, while stock options and SARs count as one share, under the 2004 Plan toward the maximums.      In the past, we had various employee stock and incentive plans under which stock options and other share-based awards were granted. Stock options and other share-based awards that
were granted under prior plans and were outstanding on April 22, 2004, continue in accordance with the terms of the respective plans.      As of December 31,
2008, 159 million shares were available for award, which include two million shares available for award through February 13, 2010, under the Pharmacia 2001 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  Pharmacia Plan ). Such amounts do not
include 40 million shares previously issuable but no longer available for award under the Pharmacia Plan.      Although not required to do so, historically, we have
used authorized and unissued shares and, to a lesser extent, shares held in our Employee Benefit Trust and treasury stock to satisfy our obligations under these programs.       A. Impact on Net Income       The components of share-based compensation expense and the associated tax benefit follow:       
    Amounts capitalized as part of inventory cost were not significant. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the impact of modifications under
our cost-reduction initiatives to share-based awards was not significant. Generally, these modifications resulted in an acceleration of vesting, either in accordance with plan terms or at management s discretion.       B. Stock Options       Stock options, which entitle the holder to purchase, after the end of a
vesting term, a specified number of shares of Pfizer common stock at a price per share equal to the market price of Pfizer common stock on the date of grant, are accounted for at fair value at the date of grant in the consolidated income statement.
These fair values are generally amortized on an even basis over the vesting term into  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses  and  Research and development expenses,  as appropriate.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    Prior to 2006, stock options were accounted for under APB No. 25, using the intrinsic value method
in the consolidated income statement and fair value information was disclosed. In these disclosures of fair value, we allocated stock option compensation expense based on the nominal vesting period, rather than the expected time to achieve
retirement eligibility. In 2006, we changed our method of allocating stock option compensation expense to a method based on the substantive vesting period for all new awards, while continuing to allocate outstanding nonvested awards not yet
recognized as of December 31, 2005, under the nominal vesting period method. Specifically, under this prospective change in accounting policy, compensation expense related to stock options granted prior to 2006, that are subject to accelerated
vesting upon retirement eligibility, is being recognized over the vesting term of the grant, even though the service period after retirement eligibility is not considered to be a substantive vesting requirement. The impact of this change was not
significant.      All employees may receive stock option grants. Except for stock options awarded to two executive officers at the time they joined Pfizer, no stock
options were awarded to senior and key management in 2008. In virtually all instances, stock options granted since 2005 vest after three years of continuous service from the grant date and have a contractual term of ten years. In all cases, even for
stock options that are subject to accelerated vesting upon voluntary retirement, stock options must be held for at least one year from grant date before any vesting may occur. In the event of a divestiture or restructuring, options held by employees
are immediately vested and are exercisable from three months to their remaining term, depending on various conditions.      The fair value of each stock option grant is
estimated on the grant date using, for virtually all grants, the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model, which incorporates a number of valuation assumptions noted in the following table, shown at their weighted-average values:       
    The following table summarizes all stock option activity during 2008, 2007 and 2006:       

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    The following table provides data related to all stock option activity:       
     C. Restricted Stock Units       RSUs,
which entitle the holder to receive, at the end of a vesting term, a specified number of shares of Pfizer common stock, including shares resulting from dividend equivalents paid on such RSUs, are accounted for at fair value at the date of grant. For
RSUs granted in 2008 and 2007, in virtually all instances, the units vest after three years of continuous service from the grant date and the fair values are amortized on an even basis over the vesting term into  Cost of sales, Selling,
informational and administrative expenses  and  Research and development expenses,  as appropriate. For RSUs granted in 2006, the units vest in substantially equal portions each year over five years of continuous service and the fair value
related to each year s portion is then amortized evenly into  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses  and  Research and development expenses,  as appropriate. For certain members of senior and key
management, vesting may occur after three years of continuous service.      The fair value of each RSU grant is estimated on the grant date. For RSUs granted in 2008 and
2007, the fair value is set using the closing price of Pfizer common stock on the date of grant. For RSUs granted in 2006, the fair value is set using the average price of Pfizer common stock on the date of grant.      The following table summarizes all RSU activity during 2008, 2007 and 2006:       
    The following table provides data related to all RSU activity:       
     D. Performance Share Awards (PSAs) and Performance-Contingent Share Awards (PCSAs)       PSAs in 2008, 2007 and 2006, and PCSAs in earlier years, entitle the holder to receive, at the end of a vesting term, a number of shares of our common stock, within a specified
range of shares, calculated using a non-discretionary formula that measures our performance relative to an industry peer group. PSAs are accounted for at fair value at the date of grant in the consolidated income statement beginning with grants in
2006. Further, PSAs are generally amortized on an even basis over the vesting term into  Cost of   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                   
  sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses  and  Research and development expenses,  as appropriate. The PCSA grants awarded prior to 2006
are accounted for using the intrinsic value method in the consolidated income statement. Senior and other key members of management may receive PSA and PCSA grants. In most instances, PSA grants vest after three years and PCSA grants vest after five
years of continuous service from the grant date. In certain instances, PCSA grants vest over two to four years of continuous service from the grant date. The vesting terms are equal to the contractual terms.      The 2004 Plan limitations on the maximum amount of share-based awards apply to all awards, including PCSA and PSA grants. In 2001, our shareholders approved the 2001
Performance-Contingent Share Award Plan (the 2001 Plan), allowing a maximum of 12.5 million shares to be awarded to all participants. This maximum was applied to awards for performance periods beginning after January 1, 2002 through 2004.
The 2004 Plan is the only plan under which share-based awards may be granted in the future.      PSA grants made in 2008, 2007 and 2006 will vest and be paid based on a
non-discretionary formula that measures our performance using relative total shareholder return over a performance period relative to an industry peer group. If our minimum performance in the measure is below the threshold level relative to the peer
group, then no shares will be paid. PCSA grants made prior to 2006 will vest and be paid based on a non-discretionary formula, which measures our performance using relative total shareholder return and relative change in diluted EPS over a
performance period relative to an industry peer group. If our minimum performance in the measures is below the threshold level relative to the peer group, then no shares will be paid.      We measure PSA grants at fair value, using a Monte Carlo simulation model, times the target number of shares. The target number of shares is determined by reference to the fair value of share-based awards to similar employees
in the industry peer group. We measure PCSA grants at intrinsic value whereby the probable award was allocated over the term of the award, then the resultant shares are adjusted to the fair value of our common stock at each accounting period until
the date of payment.      The weighted average assumptions used in the valuation of PSAs are as follows:       
    The following table summarizes all PSA and PCSA activity during 2008, 2007 and 2006, with the shares granted representing the
maximum award that could be achieved:       

(a)     
    Forfeited includes nil in 2008 and 2007, and 345 thousand shares in 2006 that were forfeited by retirees. At the discretion
of the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors, $9 million in 2006 was paid in cash to such retirees, which was equivalent to the fair value of the forfeited shares pro rated for the portion of the performance period that was completed
prior to retirement.      

(b)     
    Modifications includes pro-ration of the awards for service to the date of termination for 15 former employees in 2008 and 34
employees and former employees in 2007. The modifications were made at the discretion of the Senior Vice President of Worldwide Human Resources, or her designee, for 2008, and the Board of Directors, the Executive Leadership Team or the Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer for 2007. There was no incremental cost related to the modifications.            

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    The following table provides data related to all PSA and PCSA activity:       
    We entered into forward-purchase contracts that partially offset the potential impact on net income of our obligation under
the pre-2006 PCSAs. At settlement date, we would, at the option of the counterparty to each of the contracts, either receive our own stock or settle the contracts for cash. We had contracts for approximately 3 million shares of our stock at a
per-share price of $33.85 outstanding as of December 31, 2006. The contracts matured early in 2007. Changes in the fair value of these contracts were reported in  Other (income)/deductions   net.        E. Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs)       SARs are awarded to senior and key management. SARs
entitle the holders to receive, two years after the end of a vesting term, a number of shares of our common stock with a value equal to the difference between the defined settlement price and the grant price, plus the dividends accumulated during a
five-year term. The settlement price is the average closing price of Pfizer common stock during the 20 trading days ending on the fifth anniversary of the grant; the grant price is the closing price of Pfizer common stock on the date of the grant.
     The SARs are automatically settled on the fifth anniversary of the grant but vest on the third anniversary of the grant, after which time there is no longer a risk
of forfeiture. SARs are accounted for at fair value at the date of grant in the consolidated income statement and generally amortized on an even basis over the vesting term into  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses
 and  Research and development expenses,  as appropriate.      We calculate the fair value by using a Monte Carlo simulation model, using weighted-average
assumptions similar to those used in the valuation of stock options, except using the risk-free rate of 2.77% and contractual five years as the expected term.      The
following summarizes all SARs activity during 2008:       
    The following table provides data related to all SARs activity:       

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,   
 
  (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT PER SARs AMOUNTS AND YEARS)  
     
   2008    
 
    Weighted-average grant date fair value per SARs   
     
   $5.54    
 
    Total compensation cost related to nonvested SARs grants not yet recognized, pre-tax   
     
   $     9    
 
    Weighted-average period in years over which SARs cost is expected to be recognized   
     
   2.2    

F. Restricted Stock       Restricted
stock grants, which entitle the holder to receive, at the end of a vesting term, a specified number of shares of our common stock, and which also entitle the holder to receive dividends paid on such grants, are accounted for at fair value at the
date of grant.      Senior and key members of management received restricted stock awards prior to 2005. In most instances, restricted stock grants vest after three years
of continuous service from the grant date. The vesting terms are equal to the contractual terms. These awards have not been significant.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                      16.   Earnings per Common Share
       Basic and diluted EPS were computed using the following common share data:       

(a)     
    These common stock equivalents were outstanding during 2008, 2007 and 2006, but were not included in the computation of diluted
EPS for those years because their inclusion would have had an anti-dilutive effect.           17.   Lease Commitments        We lease properties and equipment for use in our operations. In addition to rent, the leases may require us to pay directly
for taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses, or to pay higher rent when operating expenses increase. Rental expense, net of sublease income, was $370 million in 2008, $398 million in 2007 and $420 million in 2006. This table shows
future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable operating leases as of December 31 for the following years:       
      18.   Insurance        Our insurance coverage reflects market conditions (including cost and availability) existing at the time it is written, and our decision to obtain insurance coverage or to
self-insure varies accordingly. Depending upon the cost and availability of insurance and the nature of the risk involved, the amount of self-insurance may be significant. The cost and availability of coverage have resulted in our decision to
self-insure certain exposures, including product liability. If we incur substantial liabilities that are not covered by insurance or substantially exceed insurance coverage and that are in excess of existing accruals, there could be a material
adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period (see  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies ).         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                      19.   Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies        We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and
tax litigations and claims; government investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. We do not believe any of them will have a material adverse effect on our financial position.
     Beginning in 2007 upon the adoption of a new accounting standard, we record accruals for income tax contingencies to the extent that we conclude that a tax position
is not sustainable under a  more-likely-than-not  standard and we record our estimate of the potential tax benefits in one tax jurisdiction that could result from the payment of income taxes in another tax jurisdiction when we conclude
that the potential recovery is more likely than not. (See  Note 1B. Significant Accounting Policies: New Accounting Standards  and  Note 7E. Taxes on Income: Tax Contingencies .) We record accruals for all other contingencies to the extent
that we conclude their occurrence is probable and the related damages are estimable, and we record anticipated recoveries under existing insurance contracts when assured of recovery. If a range of liability is probable and estimable and some amount
within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within the range, we accrue that amount. If a range of liability is probable and estimable and no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount
within the range, we accrue the minimum of such probable range. Many claims involve highly complex issues relating to causation, label warnings, scientific evidence, actual damages and other matters. Often these issues are subject to substantial
uncertainties and, therefore, the probability of loss and an estimation of damages are difficult to ascertain. Consequently, we cannot reasonably estimate the maximum potential exposure or the range of possible loss in excess of amounts accrued for
these contingencies. These assessments can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions (see  Note 1C. Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ). Our assessments
are based on estimates and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by management. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future
incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period.      Patent claims
include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. Although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the
outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations.
     Among the principal matters pending to which we are a party are the following:       A. Patent Matters       We are involved in a number of suits relating to our patents, most of which involve claims by generic drug manufacturers that
patents covering our products, processes or dosage forms are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic manufacturer. Challenges have been made by generic manufacturers to patents covering, among other products, Lipitor (atorvastatin),
Norvasc (amlodipine), Celebrex (celecoxib), Detrol and Detrol LA (tolterodine), Vfend (voriconazole) and Aricept (donepezil hydrochloride). Also, counterclaims as well as various independent actions have been filed claiming that our assertions of,
or attempts to enforce, our patent rights with respect to certain products constitute unfair competition and/or violations of the antitrust laws. In addition to the challenges to the U.S. patents on a number of our products that are discussed below,
we note that the patent rights to certain of our products, including without limitation Lipitor and Celebrex, are being challenged in various other countries.       Lipitor (atorvastatin)       In April 2007, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva) notified us that it had filed an abbreviated new drug application with
the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Lipitor. Teva asserts the invalidity of our patent covering the enantiomer form of atorvastatin, which (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expires in June 2011, and the
non-infringement of certain later-expiring patents. Teva is not challenging our basic patent, which (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expires in March 2010. In June 2007, we filed suit against Teva in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Delaware asserting the validity and infringement of the enantiomer patent.      In November 2008, Apotex Inc. (Apotex) notified us that it had filed an
abbreviated new drug application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Lipitor. Apotex asserts the invalidity of our enantiomer patent and the non-infringement of certain later-expiring patents. Apotex is not challenging our
basic patent. In December 2008, we filed suit against Apotex in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware and the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois asserting the validity and infringement of the enantiomer patent.
     In January 2007, we filed a reissue application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the Patent Office) seeking to correct a technical defect in our enantiomer
patent. In January 2009, the Patent Office accepted our application for reissue of the enantiomer patent and issued a Notice of Allowance. Certain formalities must be completed before the reissue patent will be granted. The reissued patent will have
the same force and effect and same June 2011 expiration date (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) as the original enantiomer patent.      In July 2008,
we entered into an agreement to settle our litigation with Apotex with respect to certain of our patents for Lipitor in Canada, subject to certain conditions. Those conditions have been satisfied, and that litigation has been settled. The settlement
does not apply to the aforementioned litigation against Apotex with respect to our Lipitor enantiomer patent in the U.S., which remains pending.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                     Norvasc (amlodipine)       Certain generic manufacturers are seeking to market their own generic amlodipine products in Canada and are challenging our Norvasc patent in that country, which expires in August 2010. In April 2008, the Canadian Federal Court in Toronto
upheld the validity of our Norvasc patent in our action against Pharmascience Inc. (Pharmascience) and issued an order preventing approval of Pharmascience s generic product containing amlodipine besylate, which is the salt form used in
Norvasc, until the expiration of our patent in August 2010. In May 2008, Pharmascience appealed the decision to the Federal Court of Appeal of Canada. In September 2008, Dr. Reddy s Laboratories Limited (Dr. Reddy s) filed an
application with Health Canada also seeking to market a generic product containing amlodipine besylate, and in October 2008 we filed an action in the Canadian Federal Court in Toronto seeking to prevent approval of Dr. Reddy s generic
product.      In addition, in February and April 2008, respectively, Pharmascience and Apotex notified us that they are alleging the non-infringement of our Norvasc
patent in connection with their applications with Health Canada seeking to market in Canada products containing amlodipine salt forms that are different from amlodipine besylate. In April and June 2008, respectively, we filed actions against
Pharmascience and Apotex in the Canadian Federal Court in Toronto asserting the infringement of our Norvasc patent.       Celebrex (celecoxib)       In March 2008, Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Mylan) notified us that it had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA challenging our patent for Celebrex covering use
in the treatment of inflammation, which expires in December 2015. Mylan is seeking to market a product containing celecoxib upon the expiration in May 2014 of our two main patents covering the active ingredient and a pharmaceutical composition
thereof.      In April 2008, Teva notified us that it had filed an amendment to its previously filed abbreviated new drug application with the FDA with respect to the 50
mg dose of Celebrex challenging our patent for Celebrex covering use in the treatment of inflammation. Teva is seeking to market a 50 mg product containing celecoxib upon the expiration of our two main patents in May 2014.       Neurontin (gabapentin)       In August 2005, the U.S. District Court for the District of New
Jersey held that the generic gabapentin (Neurontin) products of a number of generic manufacturers did not infringe our gabapentin low-lactam patent, which expires in 2017, and it granted summary judgment in their favor. Several generic manufacturers
launched their gabapentin products in 2004 and 2005. In September 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the District Court s summary judgment decision and remanded the case to the District Court for trial on the
patent-infringement issue. If successful at trial, we intend to seek compensation from the generic manufacturers for damages resulting from their at-risk launches of generic gabapentin.       Detrol (tolterodine)       In March 2004, we brought a patent infringement suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey
against Teva, which had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Detrol. In January 2007, Teva withdrew its challenge to our patent, and the patent infringement suit was dismissed. At
about the same time in January 2007, Ivax Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Ivax), a wholly owned subsidiary of Teva, amended its previously filed abbreviated new drug application for tolterodine to challenge our basic patent for Detrol, and we brought a
patent infringement action against Ivax in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. The basic patent (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expires in September 2012.       Detrol LA (tolterodine)       In October 2007 and January 2008, respectively, Teva and Impax
Laboratories, Inc. notified us that they had filed abbreviated new drug applications with the FDA challenging on various grounds four patents relating to Detrol LA, an extended-release formulation of Detrol (tolterodine), and seeking approval to
market their generic versions of Detrol LA. We filed suit against each of them in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York asserting the infringement of three of the patents relating to Detrol LA., which (including the six-month
pediatric exclusivity period) expire between 2012 (the basic patent ) and 2020. Each of these actions subsequently was transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey.      In March 2008, Sandoz Inc., a division of Novartis AG (Sandoz), also notified us that it had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA seeking approval to market a
generic version of Detrol LA. Sandoz is challenging three later-expiring patents, which (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expire in 2020, but not our basic patent.       Vfend (voriconazole)       In July 2008, Matrix Laboratories Ltd. notified us that it had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the
FDA challenging on various grounds four of our patents relating to Vfend, which expire between 2009 and 2016, and seeking approval to market a generic version of Vfend.      In November 2008, Sandoz notified us that it had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA challenging on various grounds two of our patents relating to Vfend, which expire in 2016 and 2018, and seeking approval to market a
generic version of Vfend for intravenous use.       Aricept (donepezil hydrochloride)       In October 2005, Teva notified Eisai Co., Ltd. (Eisai) that Teva had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA challenging on various grounds Eisai s U.S. basic patent for Aricept, which expires in November 2010, and
seeking approval to market a generic version of Aricept. In December 2005, Eisai filed suit against Teva in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey asserting infringement of that patent. While Teva has received final approval from the
FDA for its generic product, it is subject to a preliminary injunction prohibiting the marketing of its product pending the outcome of Eisai s patent infringement action. We co-promote Aricept with Eisai in the U.S. but are not a party to
Eisai s patent infringement action.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                     B. Product Litigation       Like other pharmaceutical companies, we are defendants in numerous product liability cases, including but not limited to those discussed below, in which the plaintiffs seek relief for personal injuries and other purported damages allegedly
caused by our drugs and other products.       Asbestos        

Quigley         Quigley Company, Inc. (Quigley), a wholly owned subsidiary, was
acquired by Pfizer in 1968 and sold small amounts of products containing asbestos until the early 1970s. In September 2004, Pfizer and Quigley took steps that were intended to resolve all pending and future claims against Pfizer and Quigley in which
the claimants allege personal injury from exposure to Quigley products containing asbestos, silica or mixed dust. We recorded a charge of $369 million before-tax ($229 million after-tax) in the third quarter of 2004 in connection with these matters.
     In September 2004, Quigley filed a petition in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York seeking reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code. In March 2005, Quigley filed a reorganization plan in the Bankruptcy Court that needed the approval of both the Bankruptcy Court and the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York after receipt of the vote of 75% of
the claimants. In connection with that filing, Pfizer entered into settlement agreements with lawyers representing more than 80% of the individuals with claims related to Quigley products against Quigley and Pfizer. The agreements provide for a
total of $430 million in payments, of which $215 million became due in December 2005 and is being paid to claimants upon receipt by the Company of certain required documentation from each of the claimants. The reorganization plan provided for the
establishment of a Trust (the Trust) for the payment of all remaining pending claims as well as any future claims alleging injury from exposure to Quigley products.      As certified by the balloting agent in May 2006, more than 75% of Quigley s claimants holding claims that represented more than two-thirds in value of claims against Quigley voted to accept Quigley s plan of reorganization. In
August 2006, in reviewing the voting tabulation methodology, the Bankruptcy Court ruled that certain votes that accepted the plan were not predicated upon the actual value of the claim. As a result, the reorganization plan was not accepted.
     In June 2007, Quigley filed an amended plan of reorganization that is intended to address the Bankruptcy Court s concerns regarding the voting tabulation
methodology. In February 2008, the Bankruptcy Court authorized Quigley to solicit its amended reorganization plan for acceptance by claimants. According to the official report filed with the court by the balloting agent in July 2008, the requisite
number of votes was cast in favor of the amended plan of reorganization. The Bankruptcy Court has scheduled a confirmation hearing to be held sometime after March 16, 2009 at which it will consider any objections to the plan s confirmation
and determine whether to approve the plan. If approved by the claimants and the courts, the amended reorganization plan will result in a permanent injunction directing all pending and future claims alleging personal injury from exposure to Quigley
products to the Trust.      Under the amended reorganization plan (as under the original reorganization plan), Pfizer will contribute to the Trust $405 million through a
note as well as approximately $100 million in cash and insurance, and will forgive a $30 million secured loan to Quigley. In addition, Pfizer entered into an agreement with the representative of future claimants that provides for the contribution to
the Trust of an additional amount with a present value of $88.4 million.      In a separately negotiated transaction with an insurance company in August 2004, we agreed
to a settlement related to certain insurance coverage which provides for payments to us over a ten-year period of amounts totaling $405 million.       

Other Matters         Between 1967 and 1982, Warner-Lambert owned American
Optical Corporation, which manufactured and sold respiratory protective devices and asbestos safety clothing. In connection with the sale of American Optical in 1982, Warner-Lambert agreed to indemnify the purchaser for certain liabilities,
including certain asbestos-related and other claims. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 104,000 claims naming American Optical and numerous other defendants were pending in various federal and state courts seeking damages for alleged
personal injury from exposure to asbestos and other allegedly hazardous materials. We are actively engaged in the defense of, and will continue to explore various means to resolve, these claims. Several of the insurance carriers that provided
coverage for the American Optical asbestos and other allegedly hazardous materials claims have denied coverage. We believe that these carriers  position is without merit and are pursuing legal proceedings against such carriers.      Numerous lawsuits are pending against Pfizer in various federal and state courts seeking damages for alleged personal injury from exposure to products containing asbestos and other
allegedly hazardous materials sold by Gibsonburg Lime Products Company (Gibsonburg). Gibsonburg was acquired by Pfizer in the 1960s and sold small amounts of products containing asbestos until the early 1970s.      There also is a small number of lawsuits pending in various federal and state courts seeking damages for alleged exposure to asbestos in facilities owned or formerly owned by
Pfizer or its subsidiaries.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                     Celebrex and Bextra        

Product Liability and Consumer Actions         Product liability suits,
including purported class actions, were filed against Pfizer in various U.S. federal and state courts and in certain other countries alleging personal injury as a result of the use of Celebrex and/or Bextra. In addition, purported class actions were
filed against Pfizer in various U.S. federal and state courts and in certain other countries alleging consumer fraud as a result of alleged false advertising of Celebrex and Bextra and the withholding of information from the public regarding the
alleged safety risks associated with Celebrex and Bextra. Subsequently, all of the U.S. federal product liability and consumer fraud actions were transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In re Celebrex
and Bextra Marketing, Sales Practices and Product Liability Litigation  MDL-1699) in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California.      On
October 17, 2008, the Company announced that it had reached agreements in principle to settle the pending U.S. consumer fraud purported class action cases and more than 90% of the known U.S. personal injury claims. The proposed settlements of
the pending U.S. consumer fraud purported class action cases are subject to approval by the appropriate courts.      In connection with these agreements in principle, the
Company recorded pre-tax charges in the third quarter of 2008 of approximately $745 million for all known U.S. personal injury claims and approximately $89 million for the pending U.S. consumer fraud purported class action cases. We believe that the
charges of approximately $745 million will be sufficient to resolve all known U.S. personal injury claims, including those not being settled at this time. However, additional charges may have to be taken in the future in connection with certain
pending claims and unknown claims relating to Celebrex and Bextra.      The Company believes that it has insurance coverage for a portion of the proposed personal injury
settlements and is seeking to recover payments to which it believes it is entitled under the applicable insurance policies.      The agreements in principle and the
charges do not apply to the other actions relating to Celebrex and Bextra discussed immediately below.       

Securities, Fiduciary Duty and ERISA Actions         Beginning in late 2004,
actions, including purported class and shareholder derivative actions, have been filed in various federal and state courts against Pfizer, Pharmacia Corporation (Pharmacia) and certain current and former officers, directors and employees of Pfizer
and Pharmacia. These actions include: (i) purported class actions alleging that Pfizer and certain current and former officers of Pfizer violated federal securities laws by misrepresenting the safety of Celebrex and Bextra; (ii) purported
shareholder derivative actions alleging that certain of Pfizer s current and former officers and directors breached fiduciary duties by causing Pfizer to misrepresent the safety of Celebrex and, in certain of the cases, Bextra; and
(iii) purported class actions filed by persons who claim to be participants in the Pfizer or Pharmacia Savings Plan alleging that Pfizer and certain current and former officers, directors and employees of Pfizer or, where applicable, Pharmacia
and certain former officers, directors and employees of Pharmacia, violated certain provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) by selecting and maintaining Pfizer stock as an investment alternative when it allegedly no
longer was a suitable or prudent investment option. In June 2005, the federal securities, fiduciary duty and ERISA actions were transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In re Pfizer Inc. Securities,
Derivative and  ERISA  Litigation MDL-1688 ) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.      In July 2007, the purported federal
shareholder derivative action alleging breach of fiduciary duty was dismissed with prejudice by the court in the Multi-District Litigation. The plaintiffs appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and, in January
2009, the Second Circuit affirmed the dismissal order. In March 2008, the purported shareholder derivative action in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York County, alleging breach of fiduciary duty also was dismissed with prejudice. In
April 2008, the plaintiff filed a notice of appeal with the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, First Department.       

Securities Action in New Jersey         In 2003, several purported class action
complaints were filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against Pharmacia, Pfizer and certain former officers of Pharmacia. The complaints allege that the defendants violated federal securities laws by misrepresenting the
data from a study concerning the gastrointestinal effects of Celebrex. These cases were consolidated for pre-trial proceedings in the District of New Jersey ( Alaska Electrical Pension Fund et al. v. Pharmacia Corporation et al. ). In January
2007, the court certified a class consisting of all persons who purchased Pharmacia securities from April 17, 2000 through February 6, 2001 and were damaged as a result of the decline in the price of Pharmacia s securities allegedly
attributable to the misrepresentations. Plaintiffs seek damages in an unspecified amount. In October 2007, the court granted defendants  motion for summary judgment and dismissed the plaintiffs  claims. In November 2007, the plaintiffs
appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. On January 30, 2009, the Third Circuit vacated the District Court s grant of summary judgment in favor of defendants and remanded the case to the District Court for
further proceedings. The Third Circuit also held that the District Court erred in determining that the class period ended on February 6, 2001, and directed that the class period end on August 5, 2001.       Trovan       In May 2007, the Attorney General of the Federation of Nigeria filed civil and
criminal actions in the Federal High Court in Abuja against Pfizer, one of our Nigerian subsidiaries, and several current and former U.S. and Nigerian employees, including a current Pfizer director. Also in May 2007, the Attorney General of the
State of Kano, Nigeria, filed substantially similar civil and criminal actions in the High Court of Kano State against substantially the same group of defendants. The federal civil action was voluntarily withdrawn by the federal authorities in July
2007, and a new federal civil complaint seeking substantially similar damages against substantially the same group of defendants was filed shortly thereafter.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    All of these actions arise out of a 1996 pediatric clinical study of Trovan, an antibiotic then in
late-stage development, that was conducted during a severe meningitis epidemic in Kano. The actions allege, among other things, that the study was conducted without proper government authorization and without the informed consent of the parents or
guardians of the study participants and that it resulted in injury or death to a number of study participants. In the civil actions, the federal government is seeking more than $6 billion in damages and the Kano state government is seeking $2.075
billion in damages for, among other things, the costs incurred to provide treatment, compensation and support for the alleged victims and their families; the costs of unrelated health initiatives that failed, allegedly due to societal misgivings
attributable to the Trovan study; and general damages. We believe that we have strong defenses in these actions.      The 1996 Trovan clinical study also has been the
subject of two civil lawsuits filed against Pfizer in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of the study participants. Both of these actions assert that Pfizer violated the federal Alien Tort Statute, and one
of the actions also asserts that Pfizer violated the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act and the Connecticut Products Liability Act, in connection with the 1996 Trovan clinical study. The District Court dismissed both cases in
2005, and the plaintiffs appealed the decisions to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. In January 2009, the Second Circuit reversed the District Court s dismissal of both actions, and remanded them to
the District Court for further proceedings, on the ground that the District Court erred in holding that it did not have subject matter jurisdiction over the plaintiffs  claims under the Alien Tort Statute.       Hormone-Replacement Therapy       Pfizer and certain wholly owned subsidiaries and limited
liability companies, along with several other pharmaceutical manufacturers, have been named as defendants in a number of lawsuits in various federal and state courts alleging personal injury resulting from the use of certain estrogen and progestin
medications prescribed for women to treat the symptoms of menopause. Plaintiffs in these suits allege a variety of personal injuries, including breast cancer, stroke and heart disease. Certain co-defendants in some of these actions have asserted
indemnification rights against Pfizer and its affiliated companies. The cases against Pfizer and its affiliated companies involve the products femhrt (which Pfizer divested in 2003), Activella and Vagifem (which are Novo Nordisk products that were
marketed by a Pfizer affiliate from 2000 to 2004), and Provera, Ogen, Depo-Estradiol, Estring and generic MPA, all of which remain approved by the FDA for use in the treatment of menopause. The federal cases have been transferred for consolidated
pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In re Prempro Products Liability Litigation MDL-1507 ) in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas.      This litigation originally included both individual actions as well as various purported nationwide and statewide class actions. However, as a result of the voluntary dismissal of certain purported class actions and the
withdrawal of the class action allegations by the plaintiffs in certain other actions, this litigation now consists of individual actions and a few purported statewide class actions.      In November 2008, the State of Nevada filed an action against Pfizer, Pharmacia   Upjohn Company and Wyeth in state court in Nevada alleging that they had engaged in deceptive marketing of their respective hormone
replacement therapy medications in Nevada in violation of the Nevada Deceptive Trade Practices Act. In January 2009, the action was removed to the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada. The action seeks monetary relief, including civil
penalties and treble damages.       Viagra       A number of lawsuits, including
purported class actions, have been filed against us in various federal and state courts alleging that Viagra causes certain types of visual injuries. The plaintiffs in the purported class actions seek to represent nationwide and certain statewide
classes of Viagra users. All of the actions seek damages for personal injury, and the purported class actions also seek medical monitoring. In January 2006, the federal cases were transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a
Multi-District Litigation ( In re Viagra Products Liability Litigation MDL-1724 ) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota.       Zoloft
      A number of individual lawsuits have been filed against us in various federal and state courts alleging personal injury as a result of the purported ingesting of
Zoloft.       Mirapex       A number of individual lawsuits seeking damages have been
filed against us and Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (BIPI) in various U.S. federal and state courts and one purported class action has been filed in Canada alleging that Mirapex, a treatment for Parkinson s disease, causes certain
impulse-control disorders. We co-promoted Mirapex with BIPI until May 2005 but, as a result of the sale of our interests in this product to BIPI, we no longer manufacture or sell Mirapex. In June 2007, all of the U.S. federal cases were transferred
for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In re Mirapex Products Liability Litigation MDL -1836 ) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota. We and BIPI have agreed to indemnify each other with
respect to portions of certain of the claims in these actions. We and BIPI have resolved or are in the process of resolving a majority of the lawsuits pending in the U.S. on terms we consider favorable to the Company.       Neurontin       A number of lawsuits, including purported class actions, have been filed
against us in various federal and state courts alleging claims arising from the promotion and sale of Neurontin. The plaintiffs in the purported class actions seek to represent nationwide and certain statewide classes consisting of persons,
including individuals, health insurers, employee benefit plans and other third-party payers, who purchased or reimbursed patients for the purchase of Neurontin that allegedly was used for indications other than those included in the product labeling
approved by the FDA. In October 2004, many of the suits pending in federal courts, including individual actions as well as purported class actions, were transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In re
Neurontin Marketing, Sales Practices and Product Liability Litigation MDL-1629 ) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Purported class actions also have been filed against us in various Canadian provincial courts alleging
claims arising from the promotion and sale of Neurontin and generic gabapentin.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    In the Multi-District Litigation, in August 2007, the court denied without prejudice plaintiffs 
motion to certify a nationwide class of all consumers and third-party payers who allegedly purchased or reimbursed patients for the purchase of Neurontin for  off-label  uses from 1994 through 2004. In December 2007, plaintiffs filed a
renewed motion for class certification.      In June 2007, a Pennsylvania state court certified a class of all individuals in Pennsylvania who allegedly purchased
Neurontin for  off-label  uses from 1995 to the present. The court subsequently expanded the class to include purchasers of generic gabapentin. However, in February 2009, the court determined that class certification was not appropriate
and entered an order decertifying the class. Plaintiffs are seeking certification of statewide classes of Neurontin purchasers in actions pending in California, Illinois, Indiana, Missouri and Oklahoma. State courts in New York and New Mexico have
declined to certify statewide classes of Neurontin purchasers.     A number of individual lawsuits have been filed against us in various U.S. federal and state courts and
in certain other countries alleging suicide, attempted suicide and other personal injuries as a result of the purported ingesting of Neurontin. Certain of the U.S. federal actions have been transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to the
same Multi-District Litigation referred to in the first paragraph of this section.       Lipitor       In March and April 2006, six purported class actions were filed against us in various federal courts alleging claims relating to the promotion of Lipitor. In May 2006, five of the actions were voluntarily dismissed without
prejudice, and the plaintiffs in those actions were added as plaintiffs in the remaining action, which had been filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. In May 2008, on the Company s uncontested motion, the action
was transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Plaintiffs, who are third-party payers, allege that, through patient and medical education programs and other actions, the Company promoted Lipitor for use by certain
patients contrary to national cholesterol guidelines that plaintiffs claim are a part of the labeled indications for the product. In addition, in an amended complaint, plaintiffs allege that, primarily as the result of the Company s purported
failure to fully disclose the risks of alleged side-effects of Lipitor, the prices that plaintiffs paid for Lipitor were higher than they otherwise would have been. The plaintiffs seek to represent nationwide and certain statewide classes consisting
of health and welfare funds and other third-party payers that purchased Lipitor or reimbursed patients for the purchase of Lipitor since January 1, 2002. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, fraud, unjust enrichment and a violation of the
federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act and certain state consumer fraud statutes and seek monetary and injunctive relief, including treble damages.      In 2004, a former employee filed a  whistleblower  action against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The complaint remained under seal until September 2007, at which time the U.S. Attorney for the
Eastern District of New York declined to intervene in the case. We were served with the complaint in December 2007. Plaintiff alleges that, through patient and medical education programs, written materials and other actions aimed at doctors,
consumers, payers and investors, the Company promoted Lipitor for use by certain patients contrary to national cholesterol guidelines that plaintiff claims are a part of the labeled indications for the product. Plaintiff alleges violations of the
Federal Civil False Claims Act and the false claims acts of certain states and seeks treble damages and civil penalties on behalf of the federal government and the specified states as the result their purchase, or reimbursement of patients for the
purchase, of Lipitor allegedly for such  off-label  uses. Plaintiff also seeks compensation as a whistleblower under those federal and state statutes. In addition, plaintiff alleges that he was wrongfully terminated, in violation of the
anti-retaliation provisions of the Federal Civil False Claims Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and applicable New York law, for raising concerns about the alleged  off-label  promotion of Lipitor and about alleged instances of sexual
harassment in the workplace, and he seeks damages and the reinstatement of his employment.       Chantix/Champix       In August 2008, an individual filed a purported nationwide class action against us in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois alleging claims relating to the
marketing of Chantix. In November 2008, the action was dismissed without prejudice by the court at the request of the plaintiff.      A number of individual lawsuits have
been filed against us in various federal and state courts alleging suicide, attempted suicide and other personal injuries as a result of the purported ingesting of Chantix, as well as economic loss. Plaintiffs in these actions seek compensatory and
punitive damages and the disgorgement of profits resulting from the sale of Chantix.      In December 2008, a purported class action was filed against us in the Ontario
Superior Court of Justice (Toronto office) on behalf of all individuals and third-party payers in Canada who have purchased and ingested Champix or reimbursed patients for the purchase of Champix. This action asserts claims under Canadian product
liability law, including with respect to the safety and efficacy of Champix, and, on behalf of the putative class, seeks monetary relief, including punitive damages.       C. Commercial and Other Matters        Merger Agreement Between Pfizer and Wyeth       In late January and early February 2009, four purported class action complaints were filed by Wyeth shareholders challenging Wyeth s proposed merger with Pfizer. (See  Note 21. Subsequent Event. ) The actions were
filed in federal court in New Jersey and in state courts in New Jersey and Delaware. The complaints in all four actions name as defendants the members of Wyeth s board of directors and Wyeth. The complaints in three of the actions also name
Pfizer as a defendant. The plaintiffs allege that (i) each of the members of Wyeth s board of directors breached his or her fiduciary duties to Wyeth and its shareholders by authorizing the sale of Wyeth to Pfizer for what plaintiffs deem
 inadequate  consideration; (ii) Wyeth directly breached and/or aided and abetted the other defendants  alleged breaches of fiduciary duties; and (iii) in the three actions in which Pfizer is a defendant, that Pfizer aided
and abetted the alleged breaches of fiduciary duties by Wyeth and its directors. The plaintiffs seek, among other things, to enjoin the defendants from consummating the merger on the agreed-upon terms.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                     Average Wholesale Price Litigation       A number of states as well as most counties in New York have sued Pharmacia, Pfizer and other pharmaceutical manufacturers alleging that they provided average wholesale price (AWP) information for certain of their products that
was higher than the actual prices at which those products were sold. The AWP is used to determine reimbursement levels under Medicare Part B and Medicaid and in many private-sector insurance policies and medical plans. The plaintiffs claim that the
alleged spread between the AWPs at which purchasers were reimbursed and the actual sale prices was promoted by the defendants as an incentive to purchase certain of their products. In addition to suing on their own behalf, many of the plaintiff
states seek to recover on behalf of individual Medicare Part B co-payers and private-sector insurance companies and medical plans in their states. These various actions generally assert fraud claims as well as claims under state deceptive trade
practice laws, and seek monetary and other relief, including civil penalties and treble damages. Several of the suits also allege that Pharmacia and/or Pfizer did not report to the states their best price for certain products under the Medicaid
program.      In addition, Pharmacia, Pfizer and other pharmaceutical manufacturers are defendants in a number of purported class action suits in various federal and
state courts brought by employee benefit plans and other third-party payers that assert claims similar to those in the state and county actions. These suits allege, among other things, fraud, unfair competition and unfair trade practices and seek
monetary and other relief, including civil penalties and treble damages.      All of these state, county and purported class action suits were transferred for
consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In re Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation MDL-1456 ) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Certain of the state and private suits
have been remanded to their respective state courts. In November 2006, the claims against Pfizer in the Multi-District Litigation were dismissed with prejudice; the claims against Pharmacia are still pending.      In April 2008, the court in the Multi-District Litigation granted preliminary approval with respect to the fairness of a proposed settlement of the claims against 11 defendants,
including Pharmacia, for a total of $125 million. The court has scheduled a hearing in March 2009 to consider final approval of the settlement. If the settlement is approved, Pharmacia s contribution would be immaterial.       Monsanto-Related Matters       In 1997, Monsanto Company (Former Monsanto) contributed certain
chemical manufacturing operations and facilities to a newly formed corporation, Solutia Inc. (Solutia), and spun off the shares of Solutia. In 2000, Former Monsanto merged with Pharmacia   Upjohn Company to form Pharmacia Corporation
(Pharmacia). Pharmacia then transferred its agricultural operations to a newly created subsidiary, named Monsanto Company (New Monsanto), which it spun off in a two-stage process that was completed in 2002. Pharmacia was acquired by Pfizer in 2003
and is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer.      In connection with its spin-off that was completed in 2002, New Monsanto assumed, and agreed to indemnify Pharmacia
for, any liabilities related to Pharmacia s former agricultural business. New Monsanto is defending and indemnifying Pharmacia for various claims and litigation arising out of, or related to, the agricultural business.      In connection with its spin-off in 1997, Solutia assumed, and agreed to indemnify Pharmacia for, liabilities related to Former Monsanto s chemical businesses. As the result of
its reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, Solutia s indemnification obligations related to Former Monsanto s chemical businesses are limited to sites that Solutia has owned or operated. In addition, in connection
with its spinoff that was completed in 2002, New Monsanto assumed, and agreed to indemnify Pharmacia for, any liabilities primarily related to Former Monsanto s chemical businesses, including, but not limited to, any such liabilities that
Solutia assumed. Solutia s and New Monsanto s assumption of and agreement to indemnify Pharmacia for these liabilities apply to pending actions and any future actions related to Former Monsanto s chemical businesses in which Pharmacia
is named as a defendant, including, without limitation, actions asserting environmental claims, including alleged exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls.       Pharmacia
Cash Balance Pension Plan       In 2006, several current and former employees of Pharmacia Corporation filed a purported class action in the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of Illinois against the Pharmacia Cash Balance Pension Plan (the Plan), Pharmacia Corporation, Pharmacia   Upjohn Company and Pfizer Inc. Plaintiffs seek monetary and injunctive relief on behalf of a class consisting
of certain current and former participants in the Plan who accrued a benefit in the Monsanto Company Pension Plan prior to its conversion to a cash balance plan in 1997. In January 2002, after various corporate reorganizations, certain of the assets
and liabilities of the Monsanto Company Pension Plan were transferred to the Plan. Plaintiffs claim that the Plan violates the age discrimination provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 by providing certain credits to such
participants only to age 55. This action has been consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois ( Walker, et al., v. The Monsanto Company Pension Plan et al. ) with purported class actions pending in the same
court that make largely similar claims against substantially similar cash balance plans sponsored by Monsanto Company and Solutia Inc., two former affiliates of Pharmacia. In May 2008, at the request of the parties, the court issued an order
permitting the case to proceed as a class action.       Trade Secrets Action in California       In 2004, Ischemia Research and Education Foundation (IREF) and its chief executive officer brought an action in California Superior Court, Santa Clara County, against a former IREF employee and Pfizer. Plaintiffs allege that
defendants conspired to misappropriate certain information from IREF s allegedly proprietary database in order to assist Pfizer in designing and executing a clinical study of a Pfizer drug. In December 2008, the jury returned a verdict for
compensatory damages of approximately $38.7 million. In February 2009, the judge held a hearing on plaintiffs  motions seeking punitive damages (which, under applicable law, may not exceed two times compensatory damages) as well as prejudgment
interest from 2002 to the present. We are awaiting rulings on those motions. Separately, we will be filing motions for judgment notwithstanding the verdict and for a new trial.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                     Environmental Matters       In January 2009, we submitted a corrective measures study report to the U.S Environmental Protection Agency with regard to Pharmacia Corporation s discontinued industrial chemical facility in North Haven, Connecticut.      We are a party to a number of other proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA or Superfund),
and other state, local or foreign laws in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation.       D. Government Investigations and Requests
for Information       Like other pharmaceutical companies, we are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local government agencies in the U.S. and in
the other countries in which we operate. As a result, we have interactions with government agencies on an ongoing basis. Among the investigations and requests for information by government agencies are those discussed below. It is possible that
criminal charges and substantial fines and/or civil penalties could result from pending government investigations, including but not limited to those discussed below.      In January 2009, the Company entered into an agreement in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice to resolve the previously reported investigation regarding allegations of past  off-label  promotional practices concerning
Bextra as well as certain other open investigations. In connection with the agreement in principle, we recorded a pre-tax and after-tax charge of $2.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008.      The Company has voluntarily provided the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission with information concerning potentially improper payments made in
connection with certain sales activities outside the U.S. Certain potentially improper payments and other matters are the subject of investigations by government authorities in certain foreign countries, including the following: In Germany, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Pfizer is the subject of a civil and criminal investigation with respect to certain tax matters. In Italy, a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer is under criminal investigation by various government authorities with respect to
gifts and payments allegedly provided to certain doctors operating within Italy s national healthcare system. The Pfizer subsidiaries are fully cooperating in these investigations. In November 2008, final court approval was granted to a plea
bargain agreement between the prosecutor in Bari, Italy and a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer pursuant to which the subsidiary paid a total of 1.5 million euros, which included a criminal penalty of 90,000 euros, to resolve allegations of
improper payments to certain doctors in the Puglia region of Italy, which includes Bari. Criminal investigations by various other government authorities in Italy of alleged improper payments to certain doctors are continuing.       E. Guarantees and Indemnifications       In the ordinary course of business and in connection
with the sale of assets and businesses, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with the transaction or related to activities prior to the transaction. These indemnifications typically pertain
to environmental, tax, employee and/or product-related matters and patent infringement claims. If the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we would be required to reimburse the loss. These
indemnifications are generally subject to threshold amounts, specified claim periods and other restrictions and limitations. Historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of December 31, 2008, recorded
amounts for the estimated fair value of these indemnifications were not significant.        20  . Segment,
Geographic and Revenue Information         Business Segments       We operate
in the following business segments:       

Pharmaceutical       

The Pharmaceutical segment includes products that prevent and treat cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, central nervous system disorders, arthritis and pain, infectious and respiratory
diseases, urogenital conditions, cancer, eye diseases and endocrine disorders, among others.         

Animal Health       

The Animal Health segment includes products that prevent and treat diseases in livestock and companion animals.        For our reportable operating segments (i.e., Pharmaceutical and Animal Health), segment profit/(loss) is measured based on income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income and minority interests. Certain
costs, such as significant impacts of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and costs related to our cost-reduction initiatives and transition activity associated with our former Consumer Healthcare business, are included
in  Corporate/Other  only. This methodology is utilized by management to evaluate our businesses.      Each segment is managed separately and offers different
products requiring different marketing and distribution strategies.      We sell our products primarily to customers in the wholesale sector. In 2008, sales to our three
largest U.S. wholesaler customers represented approximately 16%, 10% and 10% of total revenues and, collectively, represented approximately 19% of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2008. In 2007, sales to our three largest U.S. wholesaler
customers represented approximately 18%, 12% and 10% of total revenues and, collectively, represented approximately 20% of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2007. These sales and related accounts receivable were concentrated in the
Pharmaceutical segment.      Revenues exceeded $500 million in each of 14 countries outside the U.S. in 2008 and in each of 12 countries outside the U.S. in 2007. The
U.S. was the only country to contribute more than 10% of total revenues in each year.         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                    The following tables present segment, geographic and revenue information:       

(a)     
     Corporate/Other  includes our gelatin capsules business, our contract manufacturing business and a bulk pharmaceutical
chemicals business, and transition activity associated with our former Consumer Healthcare business (sold in December 2006).  Corporate/Other  under  Segment profit/(loss)  also includes interest income/(expense), corporate expenses (e.g.,
corporate administration costs), other income/(expense) (e.g., realized gains and losses attributable to our investments in debt and equity securities), certain performance-based and all share-based compensation expenses, significant impacts of
purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, intangible asset impairments and costs related to our cost-reduction initiatives.      

(b)     
    Segment profit/(loss) equals  Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income and minority interests.
 Certain costs, such as significant impacts of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and costs related to our cost-reduction initiatives and transition activity associated with our former Consumer Healthcare business,
are included in  Corporate/Other  only. This methodology is utilized by management to evaluate our businesses.      

(c)     
    In 2008,  Corporate/Other  includes: (i) restructuring charges and implementation costs associated with our
cost-reduction initiatives of $4.2 billion; (ii) significant impacts of purchase accounting for acquisitions of $3.2 billion, including acquired in-process research and development, intangible asset amortization and other charges;
(iii) charges of approximately $2.3 billion resulting from an agreement in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice to resolve the previously reported investigation regarding allegations of past off-label promotional practices concerning
Bextra, as well as certain other open investigations, and charges of approximately $900 million associated with agreements and agreements in principle to resolve certain NSAID litigation and claims (see  Note 4A. Certain Charges: Bextra and
Certain Other Investigations  and  Note 4B. Certain Charges: Certain Product Litigation Celebrex and Bextra ); (iv) all share-based compensation expense; (v) net interest income of $772 million; (vi) asset impairment
charges of $213 million; (vii) acquisition-related costs of $49 million; and (viii) transition activity associated with our former Consumer Healthcare business of $7 million in income.      

In 2007, Corporate/Other includes: (i) restructuring charges and implementation costs associated with our cost-reduction
initiatives of $3.9 billion; (ii) significant impacts of purchase accounting for acquisitions of $3.4 billion, including acquired in-process research and development, intangible asset amortization and other charges; (iii) $2.8 billion of
charges associated with Exubera (see  Note 4D. Certain Charges: Exubera ); (iv) net interest income of $1.1 billion; (v) all share-based compensation expense; (vi) gain on disposal of assets and other of $174 million;
(vii) transition activity associated with our former Consumer Healthcare business of $26 million in income; and (viii) acquisition-related costs of $11 million.      

In 2006,  Corporate/Other  includes: (i) significant impacts of purchase accounting for acquisitions of $4.1 billion,
including acquired in-process research and development, intangible asset amortization and other charges; (ii) restructuring charges and implementation costs associated with our cost-reduction initiatives of $2.1 billion; (iii) all
share-based compensation expense; (iv) net interest income of $437 million; (v) impairment of the Depo-Provera intangible asset of $320 million; (vi) gain on disposals of investments and other of $173 million; (vii) a research
and development milestone due to us from sanofi-aventis of approximately $118 million; and (viii) acquisition-related costs of $27 million.      

(d)     
    Corporate assets are primarily cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments and loans.

(e)     
    Certain production facilities are shared by various segments. Property, plant and equipment, as well as capital additions and
depreciation, are allocated based on estimates of physical production.      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies                 
     
     21. Subsequent Event       On
January 26, 2009, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we will acquire Wyeth in a cash-and-stock transaction valued on that date at $50.19 per share, or a total of $68 billion. The Boards of Directors
of both Pfizer and Wyeth have approved the transaction. Under the terms of the merger agreement, each outstanding share of Wyeth common stock will be converted into the right to receive $33 in cash and 0.985 of a share of Pfizer common stock,
subject to adjustment as set forth in the merger agreement. Based on the closing price of our stock on January 23, 2009, the last trading day prior to our announcement on January 26, the stock component was valued at $17.19 per share. We
expect the transaction will close at the end of the third quarter or during the fourth quarter of 2009, subject to Wyeth shareholder approval, governmental and regulatory approvals, the satisfaction of the conditions related to the debt financing
for the transaction, and other usual and customary closing conditions.         

Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies         
    Basic and diluted EPS are computed independently for each of the periods presented. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly EPS
amounts may not agree to the total for the year.       Revenues  include a reduction of $217 million recorded in the third quarter of 2008 to adjust our prior
years  liabilities for product returns. (See  Note 4C. Certain Charges: Adjustment of Prior Years  Liabilities for Product Returns .)       Costs and
expenses  includes a charge of $2.3 billion recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008 resulting from an agreement in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice to resolve the previously reported investigation regarding allegations of past
off-label promotional practices concerning Bextra, as well as certain other open investigations, and charges of $900 million recorded in the third quarter of 2008 related to our agreements and agreements in principle to resolve certain litigation
and claims involving our NSAID pain medicines. (See  Note 4A. Certain Charges: Bextra and Certain Other Investigations  and  Note 4B. Certain Charges: Certain Product Litigation Celebrex and Bextra .)       Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges  primarily includes amounts incurred in connection with our acquisitions of Serenex, Encysive, CovX, Coley and
a number of animal health product lines in Europe from Schering-Plough, as well as two smaller acquisitions also related to Animal Health (see  Note 2. Acquisitions ).       Restructuring charges and acquisition-related costs  includes restructuring charges primarily related to our cost-reduction initiatives (see  Note 5. Cost-Reduction Initiatives ).      As of January 31, 2009, there were 226,383 holders of record of our common stock (symbol PFE).       

Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)       Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies         
    Basic and diluted EPS are computed independently for each of the periods presented. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly EPS
amounts may not agree to the total for the year.       Costs and expenses  includes a charge of $2.8 billion recorded in the third quarter of 2007 resulting from our
decision to exit Exubera (See  Note 4D. Certain Charges: Exubera ).       Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges  primarily includes
amounts incurred in connection with our acquisitions of BioRexis Pharmaceutical Corp. and Embrex Inc. (see  Note 2. Acquisitions ).       Restructuring charges and
acquisition-related costs  includes restructuring charges primarily related to our cost-reduction initiatives (see  Note 5. Cost-Reduction Initiatives ).         

Financial Summary       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies         
    On April 16, 2003, Pfizer acquired Pharmacia Corporation in a transaction accounted for as a purchase. All financial
information reflects the following as discontinued operations: our Consumer Healthcare, in-vitro allergy and autoimmune diagnostic testing, certain European generics, surgical ophthalmic, confectionery, shaving and fish-care products businesses and
the femhrt, Loestrin and Estrostep women s health product lines, as applicable.         

Financial Summary       Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies                     

(c)     
     Restructuring charges and acquisition-related costs  primarily includes the following:      

2008 Restructuring charges of $2.6 billion related to our cost-reduction initiatives.     

2007 Restructuring charges of $2.5 billion related to our cost-reduction initiatives.     

2006 Restructuring charges of $1.3 billion related to our cost-reduction initiatives.     

2005 Integration costs of $532 million and restructuring charges of $372 million related to our acquisition of Pharmacia in 2003 and restructuring charges of $438 million related to our
cost-reduction initiatives.     

(d)     
    In 2005, as a result of adopting FIN 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations,  we recorded a non-cash
pre-tax charge of $40 million ($23 million, net of tax). In 2003, as a result of adopting SFAS No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,  we recorded a non-cash pre-tax charge of $47 million ($30 million, net of tax).

(e)     
    Includes discontinued operations, (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 20. Segment, Geographic and Revenue
Information. )      

(f)      
    For 2005 through 2003, includes assets held for sale of our Consumer Healthcare business, and for 2004 through 2003, also includes
in-vitro allergy and autoimmune diagnostic testing, surgical ophthalmic, certain European generics, confectionery and shaving businesses and the femhrt, Loestrin and Estrostep women s health product lines.      

(g)     
    Defined as long-term debt, deferred taxes, minority interests and shareholders  equity.              Peer Group Performance Graph        Five Year Performance      

Since 2005, Pfizer s pharmaceutical peer group has consisted of the following companies: Abbott Laboratories, Amgen,
AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Eli Lilly and Company, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson   Johnson, Merck and Co., Schering-Plough Corporation and Wyeth (New Peer Group). Prior to that, Pfizer s pharmaceutical peer group was
comprised of Abbot Laboratories, Baxter International, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, Eli Lilly and Company, Johnson   Johnson, Merck and Co., Schering-Plough Corporation and Wyeth (Old Peer Group).      We believe that the companies included in the New Peer Group are more reflective of the Company s core business, and therefore will provide a more meaningful comparison of
stock performance. We have included the New Peer Group in the graph to show what the comparison to those companies would have been if the New Peer Group had been in place during the periods shown on the graph.         

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 6
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Subsidiaries of the Company 

EXHIBIT 21        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY       The following is a list of subsidiaries of the Company as of December 31, 2008,
omitting some subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.       

NAME    
      
     Where Incorporated     
 
    412357 Ontario Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    A S Ruffel (Mozambique) Limitada   
      
  Mozambique   
 
    A.S. Ruffel (Private) Limited   
      
  Zimbabwe   
 
    A/O Pfizer   
      
  Russia   
 
    Agouron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Alginate Industries (Ireland) Ltd.   
      
  Ireland   
 
    American Food Industries, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Andean Services S.A.   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Angiosyn, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Argatroban Royalty Sub LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Balverda S.R.L.   
      
  Italy   
 
    BINESA 2002, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Biocor Animal Health Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Bioindustria Farmaceutici S.R.L.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Bioren, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BioRexis Pharmaceutical Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Biosearch Manufacturing S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Blue Whale Re Ltd.   
      
  Vermont   
 
    C.P. Pharmaceuticals International C.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Capsugel (Thailand) Co. Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Capsugel Belgium BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Capsugel de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Capsugel France   
      
  France   
 
    Capsugel Healthcare Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Capsugel Japan Inc. (KK)   
      
  Japan   
 
    Capsugel Ploermel   
      
  France   
 
    CARDEL   
      
  France   
 
    Carlerba Produtos Qu micos e Farmac uticos, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Catapult Genetics (Australia) Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Catapult Genetics (New Zealand) Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Catapult Genetics Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Catapult Global Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Catapult Systems Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Ceuticlab Laboratorios de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Charlie Papa Operations, LLC   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    Coley Pharmaceutical GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Coley Pharmaceutical Group, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Coley Pharmaceutical Group, Ltd.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Compania Farmaceutica Upjohn, S.A.   
      
  Guatemala   
 
    Consumer Health Products (Minority Interests) Company   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Continental Farmaceutica, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Continental Pharma, Inc.   
      
  Delaware/Belgium   
 
    CovX Research LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Covx Technologies Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Davis Medica, Sociedad Limitada, Sociedad Unipersonal   
      
  Spain   
 
    Distribuidora Mercantil Centro Americana, S.A   
      
  Delaware   

Duchem Laboratories Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Embrex Bio-Tech Trade (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Embrex De Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Embrex Europe Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Embrex Poultry Health, LLC   
      
  North Carolina   
 
    Embrex, Inc.   
      
  North Carolina   
 
    Encysive (Switzerland) GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Encysive (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Encysive Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Encysive GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Encysive Italy S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Encysive, L.P.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    EP-ET, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Esperion LUV Development, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Farminova Produtos Farmaceuticos de Inovacao, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Farmitalia Carlo Erba Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Farmogene Productos Farmaceuticos Lda   
      
  Portugal   
 
    G. D. Searle   Co. Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    G. D. Searle (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    G. D. Searle International Capital LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    G. D. Searle LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    G. D. Searle South Africa (Pty) Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    G decke GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    G decke OTC Beteiligungs GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Greenstone LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Idun Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ImmunoPharmaceutics, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    International Affiliated Corporation LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Invicta Farma, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    J B Tillott Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Jouveinal Holland B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Kenfarma, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Kiinteist  oy Espoon Pellavaniementie 14   
      
  Finland   
 
    Kiinteist  Oy Helsingin Tietokuja   
      
  Finland   
 
    Kommanditbolaget Hus Gron   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Korea Pharma Holding Company Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Laboratoires Pfizer SA   
      
  Morocco   
 
    Laboratorios Parke Davis, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Laboratorios Pfizer Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Laborat rios Pfizer, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Lothian Developments V SPRL   
      
  Belgium   
 
    MED Urological, Inc.   
      
  Minnesota   
 
    Meridica Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Monterey Kelp Corporation   
      
  California   
 
    MTG Divestitures Handels GmbH   
      
  Austria   
 
    MTG Divestitures Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MTG Divestitures LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Nefox Farma, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Nostrum Farma, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    O.C.T. (Thailand) Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Orsim   
      
  France   
 
    Paris Montrouge II (Nederland) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Paris Montrouge II SARL   
      
  France   
 
    Parke Davis   Co. Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Parke Davis International Limited   
      
  Bahamas   

Parke Davis Productos Farmaceuticos Lda   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Parke Davis Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Parke, Davis   Company Limited   
      
  Pakistan   
 
    Parke, Davis   Company LLC   
      
  Michigan   
 
    Parke-Davis GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Parke-Davis Manufacturing Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    P-D Co., Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfidev3 (S.A.S.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfidev4 (S.A.S.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer (China) Research and Development Co. Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Pfizer (Perth) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Pfizer (S.A.S.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Pfizer A.G.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Pfizer AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Pfizer Africa   Middle East for Pharmaceuticals, Animal Health   Chemicals S.A.E.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Pfizer Afrique de L Ouest   
      
  Senegal   
 
    Pfizer Animal Health B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Animal Health Korea Ltd.   
      
  South Korea   
 
    Pfizer Animal Health MA EEIG   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pfizer Animal Health SA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Pfizer AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Pfizer Asia Contract Operations Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Pfizer Asia Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Asia Manufacturing PTE. LTD   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Pfizer Asia Pacific Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Pfizer Australia Holdings Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Pfizer Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Pfizer Australia Superannuation Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Pfizer B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Berlin GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Beteiligungs-G.m.b.H.   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Biologics Ireland Holdings Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Biotechnology Ireland   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Bolivia S.A.   
      
  Bolivia   
 
    Pfizer Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Pfizer Caribe Limited   
      
  Guernsey   
 
    Pfizer CentreSource Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Pfizer Chile S.A.   
      
  Chile   
 
    Pfizer Cia. Ltda.   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    Pfizer Consumer Inc.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Pfizer Continental Holdings SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Continental Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Convention III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Convention IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Co-Promotions Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Cork Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Corporation   
      
  Panama   
 
    Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H.   
      
  Austria   
 
    Pfizer Corporation Hong Kong Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Pfizer Croatia d.o.o.   
      
  Croatia   
 
    Pfizer Deutschland GmbH   
      
  Germany   

Pfizer Distribution Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Distribution Services   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer Domestic Ventures Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Dominicana, S.A.   
      
  Dominican Republic   
 
    Pfizer Egypt S.A.E.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Pfizer Enterprises Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Enterprises SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer ESP Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Pfizer Europe Holdings SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Europe MA EEIG   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pfizer Europe Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer European Service Center BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer Export AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Pfizer Export Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Finance GmbH   Co. KG   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Finance International   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Finance Share Service (Dalian) Co., Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Finance Verwaltungs GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Financial Services NV/SA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer Global Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Global Investments SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Global Supply   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Global Trading   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Group Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pfizer H.C.P. Corporation   
      
  New York   
 
    Pfizer Health AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Pfizer Health Solutions Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Healthcare Consultant (Shanghai) Co., Ltd   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Healthcare Ireland   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Hellas, A.E.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Pfizer HK Service Company Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Pfizer Holding France (S.C.A.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer Holding Italy S.p.A.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Pfizer Holding und Verwaltungs G.m.b.H.   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Holding Ventures   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Holdings Bermuda Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Pfizer Holdings Europe   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Holdings International Luxembourg (PHIL) Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Holdings Luxembourg SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Holdings Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Pfizer Holdings Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Holdings Turkey Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Hungary Asset Management LLC   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Pfizer Ilaclari Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Pfizer International Bank Europe   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer International Corporation   
      
  Panama   
 
    Pfizer International Holdings   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer International LLC   
      
  New York   
 
    Pfizer International Luxembourg SA   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer International Operations (S. A. S.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer International Trading (Shanghai) Limited   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Investment Capital   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Investment Co. Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Ireland Investments Limited   
      
  Ireland   

Pfizer Ireland Pharmaceuticals   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Ireland Pharmaceuticals   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Ireland Ventures   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Italia S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Pfizer Japan Inc.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Pfizer Jersey Capital Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Jersey Company Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Jersey Finance Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Laboratories (Pty) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Pfizer Laboratories Limited   
      
  Kenya   
 
    Pfizer Laboratories Limited   
      
  Pakistan   
 
    Pfizer Limitada   
      
  Angola   
 
    Pfizer Limited   
      
  Taiwan   
 
    Pfizer Limited   
      
  Tanzania   
 
    Pfizer Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Pfizer Limited   
      
  Uganda   
 
    Pfizer Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pfizer LLC   
      
  Russia   
 
    Pfizer Luxco Holdings Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Luxembourg SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer Manufacturing Deutschland GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Manufacturing Frankfurt GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Manufacturing Frankfurt Verwaltungs GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Manufacturing LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Manufacturing Services   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Medical Technology Group (Belgium) N.V.   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer Middle East for Pharmaceuticals, Animal Health and Chemicals S.A.E.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Pfizer Namibia (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  Namibia   
 
    Pfizer New Zealand Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Pfizer OTC B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer OTC Beteiligungs GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Overseas LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Pfizer Pension Trustees (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Pension Trustees Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pfizer PGM (S.A.S.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer PGRD (S.A.S.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer Pharm Algerie   
      
  Algeria   
 
    Pfizer Pharma GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Pharma Trade LLC   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceutical (Wuxi) Co., Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceutical India Pvt. Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceutical Trading Limited Liability Company (a/k/a Pfizer Kft. or Pfizer LLC)   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Israel Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Jersey Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Korea Limited   
      
  South Korea   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Limited   
      
  Cayman Island   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Tunisie Sarl   
      
  Tunisia   
 
    Pfizer PHF   
      
  Ireland   

Pfizer Pigments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Polska Sp. z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Pfizer Precision Holdings SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Prev Sociedade de Previdencia Privada   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Pfizer Private Limited   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Pfizer Private Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Pfizer Production LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Products Inc.   
      
  Connecticut   
 
    Pfizer Products India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Pfizer Romania SRL   
      
  Romania   
 
    Pfizer S.A.   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Pfizer S.A.   
      
  Peru   
 
    Pfizer S.G.P.S. Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Pfizer S.R.L.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Pfizer SA (Belgium)   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer Saidal Manufacturing   
      
  Algeria   
 
    Pfizer Science and Technology Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Service Company BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer Service Company Ireland   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Services 1 (S.N.C.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Shared Services   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Shareholdings Intermediate SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Singapore Trading Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Pfizer Specialities Ghana   
      
  Ghana   
 
    Pfizer Specialties Limited   
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Pfizer Sterling Investments Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Strategic Investment Company Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Suzhou Animal Health Products Co., Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Suzhou Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Technologies Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pfizer Trading Polska sp.z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Pfizer Tunisie SA   
      
  Tunisia   
 
    Pfizer UK Group Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pfizer Vaccines LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Venezuela, S.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Pfizer Ventures Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Warner Lambert Luxembourg SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Zona Franca, S.A.   
      
  Costa Rica   
 
    Pfizer, Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Pfizer, S.A.   
      
  Costa Rica   
 
    Pfizer, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Pfizer, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Pfizer, spol. s r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn Cambridge Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn Company LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn Management Company Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn S.p.A.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn Trading Corporation   
      
  Michigan   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Pharmacia (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Pharmacia Africa Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pharmacia Animal Health Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pharmacia Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   

Pharmacia Australia Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Pharmacia B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pharmacia Brasil Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Pharmacia Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pharmacia de Centroamerica S.A.   
      
  Panama   
 
    Pharmacia de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Pharmacia GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pharmacia Grupo Pfizer, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Pharmacia Hepar Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pharmacia Holding AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Pharmacia Ilac Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Pharmacia Inter-American LLC   
      
  Michigan   
 
    Pharmacia International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pharmacia International Inc.   
      
  South Dakota   
 
    Pharmacia Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pharmacia Korea Ltd.   
      
  South Korea   
 
    Pharmacia Laboratories Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pharmacia Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pharmacia Limited Company   
      
  Michigan   
 
    Pharmacia Little Island Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pharmacia Malaysia Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Pharmacia Polska Sp.z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Pharmacia S.A.   
      
  Peru   
 
    Pharmacia Searle Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pharmacia UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    PowderJect Research Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    PowderJect Vaccines, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PowderMed Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    PowderMed, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ProRe SA   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Prosec (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Prosec Forsakrings AB (Prosec Insurance Co. Ltd.)   
      
  Sweden   
 
    PT. Capsugel Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT. Pfidex Pharma   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT. Pfizer Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    Quigley Company, Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    Renrall LLC   
      
  Wyoming   
 
    Rinat Neuroscience Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Rivepar   
      
  France   
 
    Roerig Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Roerig S.A.   
      
  Chile   
 
    Roerig, Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Roerig, S.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Searle   Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Searle Belgium BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Searle Holdings B. V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Searle Laboratorios, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Searle LLC   
      
  Nevada   
 
    Searle Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Sefarma S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Serenex, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Shiley International   
      
  California   
 
    Shiley LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Sinergis Farma-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Site Realty, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   

SmithKline Beecham Animal Health (SWA) (Pty) Ltd.   
      
  Namibia   
 
    Solinor LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Substantia (S.A.S.)   
      
  France   
 
    Sugen, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Suzhou Capsugel Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Tabor Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The Pfizer Incubator LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The Upjohn Holding Company M LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The Upjohn Manufacturing Company LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Thorney Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Upjohn International Holding Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Upjohn Laboratorios Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Upjohn Pharmaceuticals Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viagra Ltd   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Vicuron Pharmaceuticals Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vicuron Pharmaceuticals Italy S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Vinci Farma, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Warner Lambert (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Warner Lambert Company (M) Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Warner Lambert Consumer Healthcare Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Warner Lambert del Uruguay S.A.   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    Warner Lambert Ilac Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Warner Lambert Poland Sp.z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Warner Lambert Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Warner Lambert Zimbabwe (Private) Limited   
      
  Zimbabwe   
 
    Warner-Lambert (East Africa) Limited   
      
  Kenya   
 
    Warner-Lambert (Nigeria) Limited   
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Warner-Lambert (Tanzania), Limited   
      
  Tanzania   
 
    Warner-Lambert (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Warner-Lambert Company AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Warner-Lambert Company LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warner-Lambert de El Salvador, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  El Salvador   
 
    Warner-Lambert de Honduras, Sociedad Anonima   
      
  Honduras   
 
    Warner-Lambert de Puerto Rico, Inc.   
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Warner-Lambert GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Warner-Lambert Guatemala, Sociedad Anonima   
      
  Guatemala   
 
    Warner-Lambert Ireland   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Warner-Lambert Kenya Limited   
      
  Kenya   
 
    Warner-Lambert Pottery Road Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Warner-Lambert SA (Pty) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Warner-Lambert, S.A.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wilcox Sweets (Pty) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    W-L (Europe)   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    W-L (Portugal)   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    W-L (Spain)   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    WL de Guatemala, Sociedad Anonima   
      
  Guatemala   
 
    W-L LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Yusafarm D.O.O.   
      
  Serbia   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of KPMG LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23         Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm        To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of
Pfizer Inc.:      We consent to the incorporation by reference of our reports dated February 27, 2009, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of
Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008, and all
related financial statement schedules, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, which reports appear in the December 31, 2008 annual report on Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies in
the following Registration Statements:      - Form S-8 dated October 27, 1983 (File No. 2-87473),      - Form S-8 dated March 22, 1990 (File No. 33-34139),      - Form S-8 dated January 24, 1991 (File No. 33-38708),      - Form S-8 dated November 18, 1991 (File No. 33-44053),      - Form S-8 dated May
27, 1993 (File No. 33-49631),      - Form S-8 dated May 19, 1994 (File No. 33-53713),      - Form S-8 dated October 5, 1994 (File No. 33-55771),      - Form S-8 dated December 20, 1994 (File No. 33-56979),   
  - Form S-8 dated March 29, 1996 (File No. 33-02061),      - Form S-8 dated
September 25, 1997 (File No. 333-36371),      - Form S-8 dated April 24, 1998 (File No. 333-50899),      - Form S-8 dated April 22, 1999 (File No. 333-76839),      - Form S-8 dated June
19, 2000 (File No. 333-90975),      - Form S-8 dated June 19, 2000 (File No. 333-39606),      - Form S-8 dated April 27, 2001 (File No. 333-59660),      - Form S-8 dated April 27, 2001 (File No. 333-59654),      - Form S-8 dated April 16, 2003 (File No. 333-104581),      - Form S-8 dated
April 16, 2003 (File No. 333-104582),      - Form S-8 dated November 18, 2003 (File No. 333-110571),      - Form S-8 dated December 18, 2003 (File No. 333-111333),      - Form S-8 dated
April 26, 2004 (File No. 333-114852),      - Form S-8 dated March 1, 2007 (File No. 333-140987),      - Form S-3 dated March 1, 2007 (File No. 333-140989) and      - Form S-3 dated March 30, 2007 (file No. 333-141729)   
  KPMG LLP      New York, New York      February 27, 2009   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 

Exhibit 31.1        Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to        Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002       I, Jeffrey B. Kindler, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc.;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4.
The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls
and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control
over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
     (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.      Date: February 27, 2009

/ S /    J EFFREY  B. K INDLER    
 
   Jeffrey B. Kindler    
 
     Chairman of the Board       and Chief Executive
Officer     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 

Exhibit 31.2        Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to        Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002       I, Frank A. D Amelio, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc.;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.      Date: February 27, 2009       

/ S /    F RANK  A. D A MELIO    
 
   Frank A. D Amelio    
 
     Senior Vice President and       Chief Financial
Officer     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 

Exhibit 32.1        Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, as Adopted        Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, I, Jeffrey B.
Kindler, hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Pfizer Inc.       

/ S /    J EFFREY  B. K INDLER    
 
   Jeffrey B. Kindler    
 
   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer    
    February 27, 2009      This certification accompanies this Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be deemed filed by the Company for
purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). Such certification will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the
Exchange Act, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates it by reference.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 11
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 

Exhibit 32.2        Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, as Adopted        Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, I, Frank A.
D Amelio, hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Pfizer Inc.       

/ S /    F RANK  A. D A MELIO    
 
   Frank A. D Amelio    
 
   Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
    February 27, 2009      This certification accompanies this Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be deemed filed by the Company for
purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). Such certification will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the
Exchange Act, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates it by reference.   

</EX-32.2>

