<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20081124_10-K_edgar_data_829224_0000950134-08-021134_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1654111</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>273529</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>17979</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>970226</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>91</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-08-021134.hdr.sgml : 20081124
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20081124160103
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-08-021134
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20080928
FILED AS OF DATE:		20081124
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20081124

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			STARBUCKS CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000829224
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-EATING & DRINKING PLACES [5810]
		IRS NUMBER:				911325671
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1002

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20322
		FILM NUMBER:		081210533

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 34067
		CITY:			SEATTLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98124-1067
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2064471575

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2401 UTAH AVENUE SOUTH
		CITY:			SEATTLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98134

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 TA+qOUWIISrpOcW9G7D0Zsg5iwM+TvHE5ZaEqmr3W7uiVx1oE+TU9J6xohmMSLKr
 KB4DtTMpLGXhQ6sQ61sydg==

 0000950134-08-021134.txt : 20081124

10-K
 1
 v50316e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, DC 20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission File Number: 0-20322 

Starbucks Corporation  

(Exact Name of Registrant as
    Specified in Its Charter)  

2401 Utah
    Avenue South 
    Seattle, Washington 98134 
    (206) 447-1575  

(Address of principal executive
    offices, zip code, telephone number)  

Securities
    Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share

Nasdaq Global Select Market

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

None  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
    filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
    15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
    preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
    registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
    been subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation of S-K is not contained
    herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the
    registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
    statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large
    accelerated
    filer    
      
           Accelerated
    filer    

Non-accelerated 
    filer    
      
           Smaller
    reporting
    company    

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
    non-affiliates of the registrant as of the last business day of
    the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal
    quarter, based upon the closing sale price of the
    registrant s common stock on March 28, 2008 as
    reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was
    $12.1 billion. As of November 13, 2008, there were
    approximately 733.3 million shares of the registrant s
    Common Stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement for the
    registrant s Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
    March 18, 2009 have been incorporated by reference into
    Part III of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION  

Form 10-K   

For the
    Fiscal Year Ended September 28, 2008  

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

PART I  

Item 1 

Business 

1

Item 1A 

Risk Factors 

8

Item 1B 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

15

Item 2 

Properties 

15

Item 3 

Legal Proceedings 

15

Item 4 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

15

PART II  

Item 5 

Market for the Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

18

Item 6 

Selected Financial Data 

20

Item 7 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

22

Item 7A 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

41

Item 8 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

42

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm 

77

Item 9 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

78

Item 9A 

Controls and Procedures 

78

Item 9B 

Other Information 

80

PART III  

Item 10 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

80

Item 11 

Executive Compensation 

80

Item 12 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 

80

Item 13 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

80

Item 14 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

80

PART IV  

Item 15 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

81

SIGNATURES 

82

INDEX TO EXHIBITS 

84

EX-10.33    
     EX-12    
     EX-21    
     EX-23    
     EX-31.1    
     EX-31.2    
     EX-32    

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.   Business   

General  

Starbucks Corporation was formed in 1985 and today is the
    world s leading roaster and retailer of specialty coffee.
    Starbucks (together with its subsidiaries,  Starbucks 
    or the  Company ) purchases and roasts high-quality
    whole bean coffees and sells them, along with fresh, rich-brewed
    coffees, Italian-style espresso beverages, cold blended
    beverages, a variety of complementary food items, a selection of
    premium teas, and coffee-related accessories and equipment,
    primarily through Company-operated retail stores. Starbucks also
    sells coffee and tea products and licenses its trademark through
    other channels such as licensed retail stores and, through
    certain of its equity investees and licensees, Starbucks
    produces and sells a variety of ready-to-drink beverages. All
    channels outside the Company-operated retail stores are
    collectively known as specialty operations.

The Company s objective is to establish Starbucks as one of
    the most recognized and respected brands in the world. To
    achieve this goal, the Company plans to continue disciplined
    expansion of its retail operations, to grow its specialty
    operations and to selectively pursue other opportunities by
    introducing new products and developing new channels of
    distribution.

Segment
    Financial Information  

Starbucks has three reportable operating segments, with each
    segment providing the indicated percentage of total net revenues
    for fiscal year ended September 28, 2008 ( fiscal
    2008 ): United States (76%), International (20%) and Global
    Consumer Products Group ( CPG ) (4%). The United
    States and International segments both include Company-operated
    retail stores and certain components of specialty operations.
    Specialty operations within the United States includes licensed
    retail stores, foodservice accounts and other initiatives
    related to the Company s core business. International
    specialty operations primarily consists of retail store
    licensing operations in more than 30 countries and foodservice
    accounts in Canada and the United Kingdom ( UK ). The
    International segment s largest markets, based on number of
    retail stores, currently are Canada, Japan and the UK. The CPG
    segment includes packaged coffee and tea as well as branded
    products sold worldwide through channels such as grocery stores,
    warehouse clubs and convenience stores, and operates primarily
    through joint ventures and licensing arrangements with large
    consumer products business partners. This operating model
    leverages the business partners  existing infrastructures
    and as a result, the CPG segment reflects relatively lower
    revenues, a modest cost structure, and a resulting higher
    operating margin, compared to the Company s other two
    reporting segments, which consist primarily of retail stores.

Financial information about Starbucks segments is included in
    Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included
    in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
     ( 10-K  
    or  Report ).

1

Table of Contents   

Revenue
    Components  

The following table shows the Company s revenue components
    as a percentage of total net revenues and related specialty
    revenues for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2008:

Company-operated
    Retail Stores  

The Company s retail goal is to become the leading retailer
    and brand of coffee in each of its target markets by selling the
    finest quality coffee and related products and by providing each
    customer a unique  Starbucks Experience . The  Starbucks
    Experience , or third place beyond home and work, is built
    upon superior customer service as well as clean and
    well-maintained Company-operated retail stores that reflect the
    personalities of the communities in which they operate, thereby
    building a high degree of customer loyalty.

Starbucks strategy for expanding its retail business is to
    increase its market share by selectively opening additional
    stores in existing markets and opening stores in new markets to
    support its long term strategic objectives. As described in more
    detail in Management s Discussion and Analysis in this
     10-K,  the
    Company committed in June 2008 to close approximately 600
    underperforming Company-operated stores in the US. The decision
    was an integral part of its transformation strategy, first
    announced in January 2008, and was a result of a rigorous
    evaluation of the US Company-operated store portfolio. The store
    closures were initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and
    are expected to be completed by the end of fiscal 2009.

Starbucks Company-operated retail stores accounted for 84% of
    total net revenues during fiscal 2008.

2

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes total Company-operated retail
    store data for the periods indicated:

(1)  

Store openings are reported net of closures. 

(2)  

Of the approximately 600 stores selected for closure, 205 stores
    were closed in fiscal 2008. 

(3)  

Store data has been adjusted for the fiscal 2008 acquisition of
    assets and development rights for the Company s Quebec and
    Atlantic Canada operations by reclassifying historical
    information from Licensed stores to Company-operated stores. 

(4)  

Starbucks restructured its Australia market by closing 61 stores
    in August 2008. 

Starbucks retail stores are typically located in high-traffic,
    high-visibility locations. Because the Company can vary the size
    and format, its stores are located in or near a variety of
    settings, including downtown and suburban retail centers, office
    buildings and university campuses. While the Company selectively
    locates stores in shopping malls, it focuses on locations that
    provide convenient access for both pedestrians and drivers. The
    Company also locates retail stores in select rural and
    off-highway locations to serve a broader array of customers
    outside major metropolitan markets. To provide a greater degree
    of access and convenience for nonpedestrian customers, the
    Company has continued to expand development of drive-thru retail
    stores. At the end of fiscal 2008, the Company operated
    approximately 2,800 drive-thru locations, compared to
    approximately 2,300 at the end of fiscal 2007, representing
    approximately 35% and 31%, respectively, of Company-operated
    stores in the US and Canada combined.

All Starbucks stores offer a choice of regular and decaffeinated
    coffee beverages, a broad selection of Italian-style espresso
    beverages, cold blended beverages, iced shaken refreshment
    beverages, a selection of premium teas and distinctively
    packaged roasted whole bean coffees. Starbucks stores also offer
    a variety of fresh food items, including several healthy choice
    selections. Food items include pastries, prepared breakfast and
    lunch sandwiches, and salads as well as sodas, juices, and
    bottled water. Starbucks continues to expand its food warming
    program in the United States and Canada, with approximately half
    of these stores as of September 28, 2008 providing warm
    food items, primarily breakfast sandwiches. A range of
    coffee-making equipment and accessories are also sold in the
    stores. Each Starbucks store varies its product mix depending
    upon the size of the store and its location. Larger stores carry
    a broad selection of the Company s whole bean coffees in
    various sizes and types of packaging, as well as coffee and
    espresso-making equipment and accessories. Smaller Starbucks
    stores and kiosks typically sell a full line of coffee
    beverages, a limited selection of whole bean coffees and a few
    accessories such as travel tumblers and logo mugs.

3

Table of Contents   

Retail sales mix by product type for Company-operated stores was
    as follows:

Specialty
    Operations  

Specialty operations strive to develop the Company s brands
    outside the Company-operated retail store environment through a
    number of channels. Starbucks strategy is to reach customers
    where they work, travel, shop and dine by establishing
    relationships with prominent third parties that share the
    Company s values and commitment to quality. These
    relationships take various forms, including licensing
    arrangements, foodservice accounts and other initiatives related
    to the Company s core businesses. In certain situations,
    Starbucks has an equity ownership interest in licensee
    operations. During fiscal 2008, specialty revenues (which
    include royalties and fees from licensees, as well as product
    sales derived from specialty operations) accounted for 16% of
    total net revenues.

Licensing  
    Retail stores   

In its licensed retail store operations, the Company leverages
    the expertise of its local partners and shares Starbucks
    operating and store development experience. Licensee partners
    provide improved and, at times, the only access to desirable
    retail space. Most licensees are prominent retailers with
    in-depth market knowledge and access. As part of these
    arrangements, Starbucks receives license fees and royalties and
    sells coffee, tea and related products for resale in licensed
    locations. Employees working in licensed retail locations are
    required to follow Starbucks detailed store operating procedures
    and attend training classes similar to those given to employees
    in Company-operated stores.

During fiscal 2008, 438 Starbucks licensed retail stores were
    opened in the United States and, as of September 28, 2008,
    the Company s US licensees operated 4,329 stores. During
    fiscal 2008, 550 International licensed stores were opened. At
    September 28, 2008, the Company s International
    operating segment had a total of 3,134 licensed retail stores.
    Product sales to and royalty and license fee revenues from US
    and International licensed retail stores accounted for 48% of
    specialty revenues in fiscal 2008.

At fiscal year end 2008, Starbucks total licensed retail stores
    by region and specific location were as follows:

Licensing  
    Packaged coffee and tea   

Through a licensing relationship with Kraft Foods, Inc.
    ( Kraft ), the Company sells a selection of Starbucks
    and Seattle s Best Coffee branded packaged coffees and
    Tazo   

    teas in grocery and warehouse club stores throughout the United
    States. Kraft manages all distribution, marketing, advertising
    and promotion of these products.

4

Table of Contents   

The Company sells packaged coffee and tea internationally both
    directly to warehouse club customers, such as Costco, and
    through a licensing relationship with Kraft in Canada and the UK.

By the end of fiscal 2008, the Company s coffees and teas
    were available in approximately 37,000 grocery and warehouse
    club stores, with 33,000 in the United States and 4,000 in
    International markets. Revenues from this category comprised 21%
    of specialty revenues in fiscal 2008.

Licensing  
    Branded products   

The Company licenses the rights to produce and market Starbucks
    branded products through several partnerships both domestically
    and internationally. Significant licensing agreements include:

The North American Coffee Partnership, a joint venture with the
    Pepsi-Cola Company in which Starbucks is a 50% equity investor,
    manufactures and markets ready-to-drink beverages, including
    bottled
    Frappuccino   

    beverages and Starbucks
    DoubleShot   

    espresso drinks;

licensing agreements for the manufacturing, marketing and
    distribution of Starbucks
    Discoveries   ,

    a ready-to-drink chilled cup coffee beverage, in Japan and South
    Korea;

a licensing agreement established in August 2008 with Unilever
    and Pepsi-Cola Company for the manufacturing, marketing and
    distribution of Starbucks super-premium
    Tazo   

    Tea ready-to-drink beverages in the US and Canada; and

the International Coffee Partnership, another joint venture with
    the Pepsi-Cola Company, to manufacture, market and distribute
    ready-to-drink beverages internationally which currently
    includes bottled
    Frappuccino   

    beverages in China and Mexico.

Collectively, the revenues from these branded products accounted
    for 4% of specialty revenues in fiscal 2008.

Foodservice   

The Company sells whole bean and ground coffees, including the
    Starbucks and Seattle s Best Coffee brands, as well as a
    selection of premium
    Tazo   

    teas and other related products, to institutional foodservice
    companies that service business and industry, education,
    healthcare, office coffee distributors, hotels, restaurants,
    airlines and other retailers. The majority of the Company s
    direct accounts are through national broadline distribution
    networks with SYSCO Corporation and US
    Foodservice  tm  .

    Starbucks foodservice sales, customer service and support
    resources are aligned with those of SYSCO Corporation and US
    Foodservice.

The Company s total foodservice operations had over 19,000
    accounts, primarily in the US, at fiscal year end 2008. Revenues
    from foodservice accounts comprised 25% of total specialty
    revenues in fiscal 2008.

Product
    Supply  

Starbucks is committed to selling only the finest whole bean
    coffees and coffee beverages. To ensure compliance with its
    rigorous coffee standards, Starbucks controls its coffee
    purchasing, roasting and packaging, and the distribution of
    coffee used in its operations. The Company purchases green
    coffee beans from coffee-producing regions around the world and
    custom roasts them to its exacting standards for its many blends
    and single origin coffees.

The supply and price of coffee are subject to significant
    volatility. Although most coffee trades in the commodity market,
    high-altitude  arabica  coffee of the quality sought by the
    Company tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial
    premium above commodity coffee prices, depending upon the supply
    and demand at the time of purchase. Supply and price can be
    affected by multiple factors in the producing countries,
    including weather, political and economic conditions. In
    addition, green coffee prices have been affected in the past,
    and may be affected in the future, by the actions of certain
    organizations and associations that have historically attempted
    to influence prices of green coffee through agreements
    establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies.

To help ensure sustainability and future supply of high-quality
    green coffees in Central America and to reinforce the
    Company s leadership role in the coffee industry, Starbucks
    operates the Starbucks Coffee Agronomy Company

5

Table of Contents   

S.R.L., a wholly owned subsidiary located in Costa Rica. Staffed
    with agronomists and sustainability experts, this
    first-of-its-kind Farmer Support Center is designed to
    proactively respond to changes in coffee producing countries
    that impact farmers and the supply of green coffee. During
    fiscal 2008, the Company expanded this sustainability program to
    Africa by establishing a Farmer Support Center in Rwanda.

The Company buys coffee using fixed-price and price-to-be-fixed
    purchase commitments, depending on market conditions, to secure
    an adequate supply of quality green coffee. Due to volatility in
    green coffee commodity prices, the Company has historically used
    fixed-price purchase contracts in order to bring greater
    certainty to its cost of sales in future periods and promote
    sustainability by paying an equitable price to coffee producers.
    When green coffee commodity prices are high for sustained
    periods of time, the Company is less likely to enter into
    fixed-price contracts on favorable terms and more likely to
    increase the use of price-to-be-fixed contracts to meet its
    demand for coffee. These types of contracts state the quality,
    quantity and delivery periods and fix the price relative to a
    green coffee commodity benchmark, but allow the benchmark price
    to be established after contract signing. An increased use of
    price-to-be-fixed contracts instead of fixed-price contracts
    decreases the predictability of coffee costs in future periods
    until the price of green coffee becomes  fixed  by
    either Starbucks or the seller.

During fiscal 2008 Starbucks more than doubled its volume of
    price-to-be-fixed purchase commitments when compared to fiscal
    2007, as a result of higher green coffee commodity prices.
    During fiscal 2008,  C  coffee commodity prices traded
    on the New York Board of Trade within a price range of $1.18 to
    $1.67 per pound and prices were, on average, approximately 20%
    higher than fiscal 2007 and 25% higher than fiscal 2006.

As of September 28, 2008, the Company had $583 million
    of purchase commitments which, together with existing inventory,
    is expected to provide an adequate supply of green coffee
    through calendar 2009. Based on expected coffee delivery dates,
    approximately 86%, 9% and 5% of these purchase commitments will
    be received by Starbucks in fiscal years 2009, 2010 and 2011 and
    later, respectively. Additionally, approximately
    $246 million of these purchase commitments are
    price-to-be-fixed contracts, most of which will be received by
    Starbucks during fiscal 2009.

The Company depends upon its relationships with coffee
    producers, outside trading companies and exporters for its
    supply of green coffee. The Company believes, based on
    relationships established with its suppliers, the risk of
    non-delivery on such purchase commitments is remote.

In addition to coffee, the Company also purchases significant
    amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support
    the needs of its Company-operated retail stores. Dairy expense
    for the US segment represents a large majority of the
    Company s total dairy expense; therefore significant
    changes in US dairy prices can have a material impact on total
    dairy expense. The US segment s dairy costs, which closely
    follow the monthly Class I fluid milk base price as
    calculated by the US Department of Agriculture, can change
    significantly in the short term. The Company s US dairy
    costs remained higher throughout most of fiscal 2008 compared to
    fiscal 2007, adversely affecting the US segment s and the
    Company s profitability. In the United States, the Company
    purchases substantially all of its fluid milk requirements from
    three dairy suppliers. The Company believes, based on
    relationships established with these suppliers, that the risk of
    non-delivery of enough fluid milk to support its US retail
    business is remote.

The Company also purchases a broad range of paper and plastic
    products, such as cups, lids, cutlery, napkins, straws, shopping
    bags and corrugated paper boxes from several companies to
    support the needs of its retail stores as well as its
    manufacturing and distribution operations. The cost of these
    materials is dependent in part upon commodity paper and plastic
    resin costs, but the Company believes it mitigates the effect of
    short-term raw material price fluctuations through strategic
    relationships with key suppliers.

Products other than whole bean coffees and coffee beverages sold
    in Starbucks retail stores are obtained through a number of
    different channels. Beverage ingredients, other than coffee and
    milk, including leaf teas and the Company s selection of
    ready-to-drink beverages, are purchased from several specialty
    manufacturers, usually under long-term supply contracts. Food
    products, such as fresh pastries, breakfast sandwiches and lunch
    items, are generally purchased from both regional and local
    sources. Coffee-making equipment, such as drip and coffee press
    coffeemakers, espresso machines and coffee grinders, are
    generally purchased directly from their manufacturers.

6

Table of Contents   

Coffee-related accessories, including items bearing the
    Company s logos and trademarks, are produced and
    distributed through contracts with a number of different
    suppliers.

Competition  

The Company s primary competitors for coffee beverage sales
    are quick-service restaurants and specialty coffee shops. In
    almost all markets in which the Company does business, there are
    numerous competitors in the specialty coffee beverage business,
    and management expects this situation to continue. The Company
    believes that its customers choose among specialty coffee
    retailers primarily on the basis of product quality, service and
    convenience, as well as price. Starbucks has been experiencing
    significantly greater direct competition from large competitors
    in the United States quick-service restaurant sector, some of
    whom have substantially greater financial, marketing and
    operating resources than the Company. Starbucks also faces
    well-established competitors in many International markets and
    increased competition in the US ready-to-drink coffee beverage
    market.

The Company s whole bean coffees compete directly against
    specialty coffees sold through supermarkets, specialty retailers
    and a growing number of specialty coffee stores. Both the
    Company s whole bean coffees and its coffee beverages
    compete indirectly against all other coffees on the market.
    Starbucks specialty operations face significant competition from
    established wholesale and mail order suppliers, some of whom
    have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company.

Starbucks also faces intense competition from both restaurants
    and other specialty retailers for prime retail locations and
    qualified personnel to operate both new and existing stores.

Patents,
    Trademarks, Copyrights and Domain Names  

The Company owns
     and/or  has
    applied to register numerous trademarks and service marks in the
    United States and in many additional countries throughout the
    world. Rights to the trademarks and service marks in the United
    States are generally held by a wholly owned affiliate of the
    Company and are used by the Company under license. Some of the
    Company s trademarks, including Starbucks, the Starbucks
    logo, Frappuccino, Seattle s Best Coffee and Tazo are of
    material importance to the Company. The duration of trademark
    registrations varies from country to country. However,
    trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely
    as long as they are in use
     and/or  their
    registrations are properly maintained.

The Company owns numerous copyrights for items such as product
    packaging, promotional materials, in-store graphics and training
    materials. The Company also holds patents on certain products,
    systems and designs. In addition, the Company has registered and
    maintains numerous Internet domain names, including
     Starbucks.com  and  Starbucks.net. 

Research
    and Development  

Starbucks research and development efforts are led by the
    Research and Development department. This team is responsible
    for the technical development of food and beverage products and
    new equipment. The Company spent approximately
    $7.2 million, $7.0 million and $6.5 million
    during fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, on technical
    research and development activities, in addition to customary
    product testing and product and process improvements in all
    areas of its business.

Seasonality
    and Quarterly Results  

The Company s business is subject to seasonal fluctuations,
    including fluctuations resulting from the holiday season. The
    Company s cash flows from operations are considerably
    higher in the fiscal first quarter than the remainder of the
    year. This is largely driven by cash received as Starbucks Cards
    are purchased and loaded during the holiday season. Since
    revenues from the Starbucks Card are recognized upon redemption
    and not when purchased, seasonal fluctuations on the
    consolidated statements of earnings are much less pronounced.
    Quarterly results are affected by the timing of the opening of
    new stores, and the Company s growth may conceal the impact
    of other seasonal influences. For these reasons, results for any
    quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may
    be achieved for the full fiscal year.

7

Table of Contents   

Employees  

The Company employed approximately 176,000 people worldwide
    as of September 28, 2008. In the United States, Starbucks
    employed approximately 143,000 people, with 136,000 in
    Company-operated retail stores and the remainder in the
    Company s administrative and regional offices, and store
    development, roasting and warehousing operations. Approximately
    33,000 employees were employed outside of the United
    States, with 32,000 in Company-operated retail stores and the
    remainder in the Company s regional support facilities and
    roasting and warehousing operations. The number of the
    Company s employees represented by unions is immaterial.
    Starbucks believes its current relations with its employees are
    good.

Available
    Information  

Starbucks
     10-K 
    reports, along with all other reports and amendments filed with
    or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
    ( SEC ), are publicly available free of charge on the
    Investor Relations section of Starbucks website at
     http://investor.starbucks.com 
    or at www.sec.gov as soon as reasonably practicable after these
    materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The
    Company s corporate governance policies, ethics code and
    Board of Directors  committee charters are also posted
    within this section of the website. The information on the
    Company s website is not part of this or any other report
    Starbucks files with, or furnishes to, the SEC.

Global
    Responsibility  

Starbucks is committed to being a deeply responsible company in
    the communities where it does business around the world. The
    Company s focus is on ethically sourcing high-quality
    coffee, reducing its environmental impacts and contributing
    positively to communities. Starbucks Global Responsibility
    strategy and commitments are integral to the Company s
    overall business strategy. As a result, Starbucks believes it
    delivers benefits to the Company and its stakeholders, including
    employees, business partners, customers, suppliers,
    shareholders, community members and others. For an overview of
    Starbucks Global Responsibility strategy and commitments, please
    see Starbucks fiscal 2008 Global Responsibility Report, which
    will be available online at www.starbucks.com/sharedplanet in
    April 2009.

Item 1A.   Risk
    Factors   

Starbucks is including this Cautionary Statement to make
    applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the
     Act ) for forward-looking statements. This
     10-K 
    includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
    Act. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact
    that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
    They often include words such as  believes, 
     expects,   anticipates, 
     estimates,   intends,   plans, 
     seeks  or words of similar meaning, or future or
    conditional verbs, such as  will,   should, 
     could,   may,   aims, 
     intends,  or  projects.  A forward-looking
    statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future
    events or circumstances, and those future events or
    circumstances may not occur. Investors should not place undue
    reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as
    of the date of this Report. These forward-looking statements are
    all based on currently available operating, financial and
    competitive information and are subject to various risks and
    uncertainties. The Company s actual future results and
    trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors,
    including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties
    discussed below.

Failure
    to meet market expectations for Starbucks financial performance
    will likely adversely affect the market price of Starbucks
    stock.   

The Company s failure to meet market expectations going
    forward, particularly with respect to comparable store sales,
    net revenues, operating margins, and earnings per share, will
    likely result in a decline in the market price of Starbucks
    stock.

8

Table of Contents   

The
    Company may not be successful in implementing important new
    strategic initiatives, which may have a material adverse impact
    on its business and financial results.   

In fiscal 2008, the Company undertook the development and
    implementation of several important strategic initiatives as
    part of a transformation strategy designed to drive long-term
    shareholder value and improve Starbucks results of operations,
    including:

improving the current state of the US business by refocusing on
    the customer experience in the stores, new products and store
    design elements, and new training and tools for the
    Company s store partners to help them give customers a
    superior experience;

slowing the Company s pace of US store openings and closing
    a number of underperforming US store locations, enabling
    Starbucks to renew its focus on its store-level unit economics;

re-igniting the emotional attachment with customers and
    restoring the connections customers have with
    Starbucks   

    coffee, brand, people and stores; and

re-aligning Starbucks organization and streamlining the
    management to better support customer-focused initiatives and
    reallocating resources to key value drivers.

There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
    successfully implement its new strategic initiatives or that its
    transformation plan will result in improved results of
    operations. If the Company does not successfully implement its
    new strategic initiatives, or if its transformation plan does
    not achieve its intended results, the Company may experience a
    material adverse impact on its business and financial results.

Starbucks
    is subject to a number of significant risks that might cause the
    Company s actual results to vary materially from its
    forecasts, targets, plans, or projections,
    including:   

lower customer traffic or average value per transaction, which
    negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues,
    operating income, operating margins and earnings per share, due
    to:

the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased
    competition generally;

lack of customer acceptance of new products or price increases
    necessary to cover costs of new products
     and/or 
    higher input costs;

unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which
    Starbucks operates, including, but not limited to, downturns in
    the housing market, higher interest rates, higher unemployment
    rates, lower disposable income due to higher energy or other
    consumer costs, lower consumer confidence, and other events or
    factors that adversely affect consumer spending, including the
    ongoing global financial crises;

customers trading down to lower priced products within
    Starbucks,
     and/or 
    shifting to competitors with lower priced products;

declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee
    products; or

adverse impacts due to negative publicity regarding the
    Company s business practices or the health effects of
    consuming its products;

cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond the
    Company s control, such as:

commodity costs for commodities that cannot be effectively
    hedged, such as fluid milk, and to a lesser extent, high-
    quality  arabica  coffee (See also the discussion on
    page 6 under  Product Supply 

labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market
    wage levels and worker s compensation insurance costs;

litigation against Starbucks, particularly class action
    litigation;

construction costs associated with new store openings;

9

Table of Contents   

information technology costs and other logistical resources
    necessary to maintain and support the global growth of the
    Company s business; and

delays in store openings for reasons beyond the Company s
    control, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available
    for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep the
    Company from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn,
    negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings
    per share;

any material interruption in the Company s supply chain
    beyond its control, such as material interruption of roasted
    coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of the
    Company s roasting plants or the failures of third-party
    suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that
    ship goods within the Company s distribution
    channels; and

the impact on Starbucks business of factors such as labor
    discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting
    Starbucks), political instability in certain markets and natural
    disasters.

The
    global economic crisis could adversely affect the Company s
    business and financial results and have a material adverse
    affect on Starbucks liquidity and capital
    resources.   

As the recent global financial crisis has broadened and
    intensified, other sectors of the economy have been adversely
    impacted and a severe global recession now appears likely. As a
    retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending,
    the Company will face an extremely challenging fiscal 2009
    because Starbucks customers may have less money for
    discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures,
    bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and sharply falling home
    prices. Any resulting decreases in customer traffic or average
    value per transaction will negatively impact the Company s
    financial performance as reduced revenues result in sales
    de-leveraging which creates downward pressure on margins.
    Additionally, many of the effects and consequences of the global
    financial crisis and a broader global economic downturn are
    currently unknown; any one or all of them could potentially have
    a material adverse effect on the Company s liquidity and
    capital resources, including Starbucks ability to issue
    commercial paper and to raise additional capital if needed, the
    ability of banks to honor draws on Starbucks credit facility, or
    otherwise negatively impact the Company s business and
    financial results.

Starbucks
    is highly dependent on the financial performance of its United
    States operating segment.   

The Company s financial performance is highly dependent on
    its United States operating segment, which comprised 76% of
    consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2008. The Company
    experienced a substantial down-turn in traffic in its US stores
    in fiscal 2008, which adversely affected the operating results
    of the US segment and the Company as a whole. If the US segment
    is unable to improve its financial performance, the
    Company s business and financial results will continue to
    be adversely affected.

Starbucks
    may not fully realize the anticipated positive impacts to future
    financial results from the restructuring measures announced in
    July 2008.   

In July 2008, the Company announced several restructuring
    measures as part of the Company s multi-faceted plan to
    transform its business and improve results of operations,
    including a plan to close approximately 600 underperforming
    Company-operated stores in the US market, a restructuring of the
    Australia market, and certain leadership and non-store
    organization changes. There can be no assurance that the Company
    will fully realize the anticipated positive impacts to future
    financial results from these restructuring measures. The
    estimated costs and charges associated with the US store
    closures are based on management s assumptions and
    projections and may vary materially based on various factors,
    including the timing of store closures, the outcome of
    negotiations with landlords and other third parties, the
    Company s ability to place affected partners (employees)
    into available positions at other Starbucks stores, and other
    changes in management s assumptions and projections. As a
    result of these events and circumstances, delays and unexpected
    costs may occur, which could result in the Company not fully
    realizing the anticipated positive impact to the Company s
    future financial results from such US store closures. Further,
    to the extent that the Company is unable to improve its
    financial performance in fiscal 2009, further restructuring
    measures may be required in the future.

10

Table of Contents   

Starbucks
    is increasingly dependent on the success of its International
    operating segment in order to achieve its growth
    targets.   

The Company s future growth will increasingly depend on the
    growth and sustained profitability of its International
    operating segment. Some or all of the Company s
    International market business units ( MBUs ), which
    Starbucks generally defines by the countries or regions in which
    they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in
    achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving
    consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. The performance of
    the International operating segment may be adversely affected by
    economic downturns in one or more of the Company s large
    MBUs. Additionally, some factors that will be critical to the
    success of International MBUs are different than those affecting
    the Company s US stores and licensees. Tastes naturally
    vary by region, and consumers in new international markets into
    which Starbucks and its licensees expand may not embrace
    Starbucks products to the same extent as consumers in the
    Company s existing markets. Occupancy costs and store
    operating expenses are also sometimes higher internationally
    than in the United States due to higher rents for prime store
    locations or costs of compliance with country-specific
    regulatory requirements. Because many of the Company s
    International operations are in an early phase of development,
    operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often
    higher compared to US operations. The Company s
    International operations are also subject to additional inherent
    risks of conducting business abroad, such as:

foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;

changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social
    and political conditions in the Company s markets;

interpretation and application of laws and regulations;

restrictive actions of foreign or United States governmental
    authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, including
    protective measures such as export and customs duties and
    tariffs and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership;

import or other business licensing requirements;

the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights;

limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency
    exchange restrictions;

in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the
    population achieving targeted levels of disposable income may
    not be as fast as the Company forecasts;

difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign
    operations, including ensuring the consistency of product
    quality and service, due to distance, language and cultural
    differences; and

local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate
    with, retain or terminate employees.

Moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in
    developing counties, which are important to the Company s
    long-term growth prospects.

Starbucks
    International segment is highly dependent on the financial
    performance of its Canada, Japan and UK markets; any significant
    increases in costs or significant declines in net revenues or
    profit contribution from one or more of these markets could have
    a material adverse impact on the results of operations of the
    International segment.   

Starbucks Canada, Japan and UK markets account for a significant
    portion of the net revenues and profit contribution of the
    Company s International operating segment. Any significant
    decline in the financial performance of one of these key markets
    may have a material adverse impact on the results of operations
    of the entire Starbucks International segment, if not partially
    or fully offset by positive financial performance from the other
    two major markets.

11

Table of Contents   

Starbucks
    faces intense competition in the specialty coffee
    market.   

A description of the general competitive conditions in which
    Starbucks operates appears on page 7 under
     Competition.  In the United States, the continued
    focus by one or more large competitors in the quick-service
    restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee
    beverages at a low cost has attracted Starbucks customers and
    could, if the numbers become large enough, adversely affect the
    Company s sales and results of operations. Similarly,
    continued competition from well-established competitors in
    international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect
    the Company s sales and results of operations in those
    markets. Increased competition from large competitors with
    significant resources in the United States packaged coffee and
    tea, and ready-to-drink coffee beverage market could adversely
    affect the profitability of the CPG segment and the
    Company s results of operations. Given its premium brand,
    Starbucks may be impacted more severely than its competitors by
    customers trading down to lower priced coffee beverages and
    related products.

The
    Company s success depends substantially on the value of the
    Starbucks brand.   

Starbucks believes it has built an excellent reputation globally
    for the quality of its products, for delivery of a consistently
    positive consumer experience and for its corporate social
    responsibility programs. The Starbucks brand has been highly
    rated in several global brand value studies. Management believes
    it must preserve and grow the value of the Starbucks brand to be
    successful in the future, particularly outside of North America,
    where the Starbucks brand is less well-known. Brand value is
    based in part on consumer perceptions as to a variety of
    subjective qualities. Even isolated business incidents that
    erode consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive
    considerable publicity or result in litigation, can
    significantly reduce brand value. Consumer demand for the
    Company s products and its brand equity could diminish
    significantly if Starbucks fails to preserve the quality of its
    products, is perceived to act in an unethical or socially
    irresponsible manner or fails to deliver a consistently positive
    consumer experience in each of its markets.

The
    loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining
    qualified personnel could jeopardize the Company s ability
    to meet its financial targets.   

The Company s success depends substantially on the
    contributions and abilities of key executives and other
    employees, and on its ability to recruit and retain high quality
    employees to work in and manage Starbucks stores. Starbucks must
    continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other
    employees sufficient to maintain its current business and
    support its projected growth. A loss of key employees or a
    significant shortage of high quality store employees could
    jeopardize the Company s ability to meet its financial
    targets.

The
    Company s business depends in large part on the success of
    its business partners and suppliers, and the Company s
    brand and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third
    parties that are outside of the Company s
    control.   

The Company s business strategy, including its plans for
    new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives,
    relies significantly on a variety of licensee and partnership
    relationships, particularly in its International markets.
    Licensees are often authorized to use the Starbucks logo and
    provide Starbucks-branded beverages, food and other products
    directly to customers. The Company provides training and support
    to, and monitors the operations of, these business partners, but
    the product quality and service they deliver to Starbucks
    customers may be diminished by any number of factors beyond the
    Company s control. Management believes customers expect the
    same quality of products and service from the Company s
    licensees as they do from Starbucks and the Company strives to
    ensure customers have the same experience whether they visit a
    Company-operated or licensed store. Any shortcoming of a
    Starbucks business partner, particularly an issue affecting the
    quality of the service experience or the safety of beverages or
    food, may be attributed by customers to Starbucks, thus damaging
    the Company s reputation and brand value and potentially
    affecting the results of operations.

Effectively
    managing the Company s growth is challenging.   

Effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as
    Starbucks expands into new markets internationally, where it
    must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy
    for local management with

12

Table of Contents   

consistency with the Company s goals, philosophy and
    standards. Significant growth can make it increasingly difficult
    to ensure a consistent supply of high quality raw materials, to
    locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees to meet the
    Company s financial targets, to maintain an effective
    system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise
    and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high
    quality product and customer experience.

Adverse
    public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming
    the Company s products, as well as reports of incidents
    involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not
    accurate, could harm its business.   

Some Starbucks products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar
    and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the
    subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion
    that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar
    and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse
    health effects. There has also been greater public awareness
    that sedentary lifestyles, combined with excessive consumption
    of high-calorie foods, have led to a rapidly rising rate of
    obesity. Particularly in the United States, there is increasing
    consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in
    part to increasing publicity and attention from health
    organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on
    alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food
    products. While Starbucks has a variety of healthy choice
    beverage and food items, including items that are low in
    caffeine and calories, an unfavorable report on the health
    effects of caffeine or other compounds present in the
    Company s products, or negative publicity or litigation
    arising from other health risks such as obesity, could
    significantly reduce the demand for the Company s beverages
    and food products.

Similarly, instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean
    water supply, food-borne illnesses and food tampering have in
    the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the
    food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors
    and could in the future affect the Company as well. Any report
    linking Starbucks to the use of unclean water,
     food-borne 
    illnesses or food tampering could damage its brand value,
    immediately and severely hurt sales of its beverages and food
    products, and possibly lead to product liability claims. Clean
    water is critical to the preparation of specialty coffee
    beverages. The Company s ability to ensure a clean water
    supply to its stores is limited, particularly in some
    International locations. If customers become ill from food-borne
    illnesses, the Company could also be forced to temporarily close
    some stores. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or
    food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants
    or stores of competitors, could, by resulting in negative
    publicity about the foodservice industry, adversely affect
    Starbucks sales on a regional or global basis. A decrease in
    customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or
    negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any
    of the Company s stores, could materially harm the
    Company s business and results of operations.

A
    regional or global health pandemic could severely affect
    Starbucks business.   

A health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely
    by infection and affects many individuals in an area or
    population at the same time. If a regional or global health
    pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and
    severity, the Company s business could be severely
    affected. Starbucks has positioned itself as a third place
    between home and work where people can gather together for human
    connection. Customers might avoid public gathering places in the
    event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national
    governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or
    delay the spread of disease. A regional or global health
    pandemic might also adversely impact the Company s business
    by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials
    and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing
    shortages in its stores. The impact of a health pandemic on
    Starbucks might be disproportionately greater than on other
    companies that depend less on the gathering of people together
    for the sale, use or license of their products and services.

Increased
    leverage and/or increases in interest rates may harm the
    Company s financial condition and results of
    operations.   

As of September 28, 2008, Starbucks had approximately
    $5.1 billion in minimum future rental payments under
    non-cancelable operating leases and $3.2 billion of total
    liabilities on a consolidated basis. Included in total
    liabilities are aggregate principal indebtedness of
    $713 million under outstanding commercial paper and
    revolving credit facility borrowings, and $550 million
    under ten-year notes maturing in August 2017. Future increases
    in the Company s

13

Table of Contents   

level of financial obligations, if any, would have several
    important effects on the Company s future operations, such
    as:

additional cash requirements to support the payment of rents and
    interest on outstanding indebtedness;

possible increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general
    economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive
    pressure;

possible limitations on the Company s ability to obtain
    additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
    general corporate and other purposes; and

possible limitations on the Company s flexibility in
    planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and its
    industry.

The Company s ability to satisfy its lease obligations and
    make payments of principal and interest on its indebtedness
    depends on its future performance, which will be subject to
    general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial,
    business and other factors affecting its consolidated
    operations, many of which are beyond the Company s control.
    If Starbucks is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from
    operations in the future to satisfy its financial obligations,
    it may be required, among other things:

to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets;

to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness;

to sell selected assets; or

to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures.

Such measures might not be sufficient to enable Starbucks to
    satisfy its financial obligations. In addition, any such
    financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available
    on economically favorable terms.

An increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in Starbucks
    credit ratings. A reduction in its credit ratings, regardless of
    the cause, could limit the Company s availability of
    additional financing and increase its cost of obtaining
    financing.

Starbucks
    relies heavily on information technology in its operations, and
    any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security
    failure of that technology could harm the Company s ability
    to effectively operate its business.   

Starbucks relies heavily on information technology systems
    across its operations, including for management of its supply
    chain, point-of-sale processing in its stores, and various other
    processes and transactions. The Company s ability to
    effectively manage its business and coordinate the production,
    distribution and sale of its products depends significantly on
    the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of
    these systems to operate effectively, problems with
    transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in
    security of these systems could cause delays in product sales
    and reduced efficiency of the Company s operations, and
    significant capital investments could be required to remediate
    the problem.

Failure
    of the Company to comply with applicable laws and regulations
    could harm its business and financial results.   

Starbucks policies and procedures are designed to comply with
    all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by
    the SEC, NASDAQ, and foreign countries, as well as applicable
    labor laws. Additional legal and regulatory requirements, such
    as those arising under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, together
    with the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with
    domestic laws, increase the complexity of the regulatory
    environment in which the Company operates and the related cost
    of compliance. Failure to comply with the various laws and
    regulations may result in damage to Starbucks reputation, civil
    and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of
    regulatory compliance and restatements of the Company s
    financial statements.

If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the
    cautionary factors described above actually occurs, Starbucks
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected. The factors listed

14

Table of Contents   

above are not exhaustive. Other sections of this
     10-K  include
    additional factors that could materially and adversely impact
    Starbucks business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Moreover, Starbucks operates in a very competitive
    and rapidly changing environment. New factors emerge from time
    to time and it is not possible for management to predict the
    impact of all these factors on Starbucks business, financial
    condition or results of operation or the extent to which any
    factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to
    differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking
    statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors
    should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of
    actual results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements
    contained in this
     10-K  and any
    other public statement made by Starbucks or its management may
    turn out to be incorrect. Starbucks expressly disclaims any
    obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements,
    whether as a result of new information, future events or
    otherwise.

Item 1B.   Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

Not applicable.

Item 2.   Properties   

The following table shows properties used by Starbucks in
    connection with its roasting and distribution operations:

The Company leases approximately 1.0 million square feet of
    office space in Seattle, Washington for corporate administrative
    purposes. Also in Seattle, Washington, the Company owns a
    205,000 square foot office building with an adjacent
    36,000 square foot plot of land, which is currently under
    development. The Company is no longer occupying the office
    building and is currently considering various options for both
    the building and the adjacent land, including sublease and sale.

As of September 28, 2008, Starbucks had more than 9,000
    Company-operated retail stores. The Company also leases space in
    approximately 170 additional locations for regional, district
    and other administrative offices, training facilities and
    storage, not including certain seasonal retail storage locations.

Item 3.   Legal
    Proceedings   

See discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 17 to the
    consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of
    this Report.

Item 4.   Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during
    the fiscal fourth quarter of 2008.

15

Table of Contents   

Executive
    officers of the registrant  

The executive officers of the Company are as follows:

Name 

Age 

Position 

Howard Schultz

55

chairman, president and chief executive officer

Cliff Burrows

44

president, Starbucks Coffee US

Martin Coles

53

president, Starbucks Coffee International

Gerardo I. Lopez

49

senior vice president; president, Global Consumer Products,
    Foodservice and Seattle s Best Coffee

Arthur Rubinfeld

55

president, Global Development

Peter J. Bocian

54

executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief
    administrative officer

Troy Alstead

45

executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief
    administrative officer (designate)

Paula E. Boggs

49

executive vice president, general counsel and secretary

Michelle Gass

40

executive vice president, Marketing and Category (designate)

Peter D. Gibbons

47

executive vice president, Global Supply Chain Operations

Dorothy J. Kim

46

executive vice president, Global Strategy, Office of the ceo

Chet Kuchinad

49

executive vice president, Partner Resources

Howard Schultz  is the founder of Starbucks and serves as
    the Company s chairman, president and chief executive
    officer. Mr. Schultz has served as chairman of the board
    since the Company s inception in 1985 and he resumed his
    role as president and chief executive officer in January 2008.
    From June 2000 to February 2005, Mr. Schultz held the title
    of chief global strategist. From November 1985 to June 2000, he
    served as chief executive officer. From November 1985 to June
    1994, Mr. Schultz also served as president.

Cliff Burrows  joined Starbucks in April 2001 and has
    served as president, Starbucks Coffee US since March 2008.
    Mr. Burrows served as president, Europe, Middle East and
    Africa (EMEA) from April 2006 to March 2008. He served as vice
    president and managing director, UK prior to April 2006. Prior
    to joining Starbucks, Mr. Burrows served in various
    management positions with Habitat Designs Limited, a furniture
    and housewares retailer.

Martin P. Coles  joined Starbucks in April 2004 as
    president, Starbucks Coffee International, and, in July 2008,
    reassumed this role, after having served as chief operating
    officer from September 2007 to July 2008. Prior to joining
    Starbucks, Mr. Coles served as an executive vice president
    of Reebok International, Ltd. a sports and fitness products
    company, from December 2001 to February 2004. Prior to joining
    Reebok International, Ltd., Mr. Coles held several
    executive level management sales and operations positions with
    NIKE Inc., Letsbuyit.com and Gateway, Inc.

Gerardo I. Lopez  joined Starbucks in October 2004 as
    senior vice president; president, Global Consumer Products and
    became senior vice president; president, Global Consumer
    Products, Foodservice and Seattle s Best Coffee in
    November 2007. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Lopez
    was president of the Handleman Entertainment Resources division
    of Handleman Company from November 2001 to September 2004 and
    was senior vice president and general manager from May 2000 to
    November 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Lopez held a variety of
    executive management positions with Frito-Lay, Inc., Pepsi-Cola
    Company and The Procter   Gamble Company.

Arthur Rubinfeld  rejoined Starbucks in February 2008 as
    president, Global Development. Mr. Rubinfeld also serves as
    president of AIRVISION LLC, an advisory firm specializing in
    brand positioning that he founded in June 2002. From March 2006
    to February 2008, Mr. Rubinfeld served as executive vice
    president, Corporate Strategy and chief development officer at
    Potbelly Sandwich Works. Prior to 2002, Mr. Rubinfeld held
    several positions in Store Development at Starbucks.

16

Table of Contents   

Peter J. Bocian  joined Starbucks as executive vice
    president and chief financial officer designate in May 2007 and
    became executive vice president, chief financial officer and
    chief administrative officer in October 2007. As previously
    announced Mr. Bocian will resign as executive vice
    president, chief financial officer and chief administrative
    officer at the end of November 2008. Prior to joining Starbucks,
    Mr. Bocian worked at NCR Corporation a technology and
    services company. From 2004 to May 2007, Mr. Bocian served
    as NCR s senior vice president and chief financial officer.
    From 2003 to 2004, he served as NCR s vice president,
    finance and interim chief financial officer. From 2002 to 2003,
    Mr. Bocian was the chief financial officer of NCR s
    Retail and Financial Group, covering four business units and
    from 1999 to 2002, he served as the chief financial officer of
    NCR s Retail Solutions Division.

Troy Alstead  joined Starbucks in 1992 and currently
    serves as the Company s senior vice president, Global
    Finance, a position he has held since September 2007. As
    previously announced, Mr. Alstead will succeed
    Mr. Bocian as executive vice president, chief financial
    officer and chief administrative officer at the end of November
    2008. Mr. Alstead previously served as chief operating
    officer, Starbucks Greater China from April 2008 to September
    2008, senior vice president, Corporate Finance from September
    2004 to August 2007, interim president, Starbucks Europe/Middle
    East/Africa from April 2003 through August 2004, and senior vice
    president, Starbucks Coffee International from March 2003
    through March 2004. Mr. Alstead served in a number of other
    senior positions with Starbucks prior to 2004.

Paula E. Boggs  joined Starbucks in September 2002 as
    executive vice president, general counsel and secretary. Prior
    to joining Starbucks, Ms. Boggs served as vice president,
    legal, for products, operations and information technology at
    Dell Computer Corporation from 1997 to 2002. From 1995 to 1997,
    Ms. Boggs was a partner with the law firm of Preston
    Gates   Ellis (now K L Gates). Ms. Boggs
    served in several roles at the Pentagon, White House and US
    Department of Justice between 1984 and 1995.

Michelle Gass  joined Starbucks in 1996 and has served as
    the Company s senior vice president, Marketing and Category
    since July 2008. As previously announced, Ms. Gass will
    assume the role of executive vice president, Marketing and
    Category beginning December 1, 2008. Ms. Gass previously
    served as senior vice president, Global Strategy, Office of the
    ceo from January 2008 to July 2008, senior vice
    president, Global Product and Brand from August 2007 to
    January 2008, senior vice president, U.S. Category
    Management from May 2004 to August 2007 and vice
    president, U.S. Category Management from October 2003 to
    April 2004. Ms. Gass served in a number of other positions
    with Starbucks prior to 2003.

Peter D. Gibbons  joined Starbucks in February 2007 and
    has served as executive vice president, Global Supply Chain
    Operations since July 2008. From February 2007 to July 2008,
    Mr. Gibbons served as senior vice president, Global
    Manufacturing Operations. From March 1999 to February 2007,
    Mr. Gibbons was executive vice president, Supply Chain, of
    The Glidden Company, a subsidiary of ICI Americas, Inc.

Dorothy J. Kim  joined Starbucks in November 1995 and has
    served as executive vice president, Global Strategy, Office of
    the ceo since July 2008. From December 2004 to July 2008,
    Ms. Kim served as executive vice president, Supply Chain
    Operations. From April 2003 to December 2004, Ms. Kim
    served as senior vice president, Global Logistics, Planning and
    Procurement. Prior to April 2003, Ms. Kim served in various
    executive roles in Supply Chain and Coffee Operations and also
    held several positions in retail planning and operations.

Chet Kuchinad  joined Starbucks in April 2003 and has
    served as executive vice president, Partner Resources since
    January 2008. Mr. Kuchinad served as senior vice president,
    Total Pay from April 2003 to January 2008. Prior to joining
    Starbucks, Mr. Kuchinad held a number of positions in the
    field of human resources with NIKE, Inc., McDonald s
    Corporation and Towers Perrin.

There are no family relationships among any directors or
    executive officers of the Company.

17

Table of Contents   

PART II   

Item 5.      

Market
    for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder
    Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

SHAREHOLDER
    INFORMATION  

MARKET
    INFORMATION AND DIVIDEND POLICY  

The Company s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global
    Select Market ( NASDAQ ), under the symbol
     SBUX.  The following table shows the quarterly high
    and low closing sale prices per share of the Company s
    common stock as reported by NASDAQ for each quarter during the
    last two fiscal years:

As of November 13, 2008, the Company had approximately
    21,000 shareholders of record. Starbucks has never paid any
    dividends on its common stock and does not currently anticipate
    paying a cash dividend in the near future.

ISSUER
    PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

The Company did not repurchase any shares during the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2008. As of the end of the quarter, the
    maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under
    publicly announced stock repurchase plans was
    6,272,128 shares.

18

Table of Contents   

Performance
    Comparison Graph  

The following graph depicts the Company s total return to
    shareholders from September 28, 2003 through
    September 28, 2008, relative to the performance of the
    Standard   Poor s 500 Index, the NASDAQ Composite
    Index, and the Standard   Poor s 500 Consumer
    Discretionary Sector, a peer group that includes Starbucks. All
    indices shown in the graph have been reset to a base of 100 as
    of September 28, 2003, and assume an investment of $100 on
    that date and the reinvestment of dividends paid since that
    date. Starbucks has never paid a dividend on its common stock.
    The stock price performance shown in the graph is not
    necessarily indicative of future price performance.

19

Table of Contents   

Item 6.   Selected
    Financial Data   

In
    millions, except earnings per share and store
    information  

The following selected financial data are derived from the
    consolidated financial statements of the Company. The data below
    should be read in conjunction with  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations,   Risk Factors,  and the
    Company s consolidated financial statements and notes. In
    particular, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a
    description of accounting changes that materially affect the
    comparability of the data presented below.

20

Table of Contents   

(1)  

The Company s fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to
    September 30. 

(2)  

Fiscal 2008 results include pretax restructuring charges of
    $266.9 million. 

(3)  

Working capital deficits were primarily due to increased current
    liabilities from short term borrowings. 

(4)  

In August 2007, the Company issued $550 million of
     10-year 
    notes. 

(5)  

Includes only Starbucks Company-operated retail stores open
    13 months or longer. Comparable store sales percentage for
    fiscal 2004 excludes the extra sales week. 

(6)  

International store information has been adjusted for the fiscal
    2008 acquisition of assets and development rights for the
    Company s Quebec and Atlantic Canada Operations by
    reclassifying historical information from Licensed stores to
    Company-operated stores. 

21

Table of Contents   

Item 7.   Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

General  

Starbucks Corporation s fiscal year ends on the Sunday
    closest to September 30. Some fiscal years include
    53 weeks. The fiscal years ended on September 28,
    2008, September 30, 2007 and October 1, 2006 all
    included 52 weeks. All references to store counts,
    including data for new store openings, are reported net of
    related store closures, unless otherwise noted.

Management
    Overview  

Fiscal
    2008   The Year in Review   

Throughout fiscal 2008, Starbucks continued to experience
    declining comparable store sales in its US stores, primarily due
    to lower customer traffic. With the US segment representing 76%
    of consolidated revenues, the impact of this decline on the
    Company s financial results for fiscal 2008 was
    significant. For fiscal year 2008 comparable store sales
    declined 5% in the US, with a declining trend over the course of
    the year, ending with a decline of 8% in the fourth quarter. The
    Company also experienced declining comparable sales in Canada
    and the UK, its two largest Company-operated International
    markets, primarily due to lower traffic. The Company believes
    that the weaker traffic has been caused by a number of ongoing
    factors in the global economies that have negatively impacted
    consumers  discretionary spending, as well as factors
    within the Company s control with respect to the pace of
    store openings in the US and store level execution. In the US,
    the economic factors included the higher cost of such basic
    consumer staples as gas and food, rising levels of unemployment
    and personal debt, reduced access to consumer credit, and lower
    home values as well as increased foreclosure activity in certain
    areas of the country (California and Florida) where Starbucks
    has a high concentration of Company-operated stores. These
    developments combined with recent and ongoing unprecedented
    shocks to the global financial system and capital markets have
    all contributed to sharp declines in consumer confidence in the
    US.

Starbucks business is highly sensitive to increases and
    decreases in customer traffic. Increased customer visits create
    sales leverage, meaning that fixed expenses, such as occupancy
    costs, are spread across a greater revenue base, thereby
    improving operating margins. But the reverse is also
    true   sales de-leveraging creates downward pressure
    on margins. The softness in US revenues during fiscal 2008
    impacted nearly all consolidated and US segment operating
    expense line items when viewed as a percentage of sales.

Since January 2008, when Company founder Howard Schultz
    reassumed the role of president and chief executive officer in
    addition to his role as chairman, Starbucks has taken steps to
    address the deterioration in the US retail environment and
    address its global support structure. These included the
    development and implementation of several important strategic
    initiatives as part of a transformation strategy designed to
    reinvigorate the  Starbucks Experience  for the
    Company s customers, increase customer traffic in its US
    stores, reduce infrastructure expenses, and improve the
    Company s results of operations. These significant actions
    have been designed to structure the Company s business for
    long-term profitable growth.

As a result of the continued weak economy and decreased customer
    traffic, as well as the costs associated with the store closures
    and other actions in its transformation strategy, the
    Company s fiscal 2008 results were negatively impacted in
    the following ways:

Consolidated operating income was $503.9 million in fiscal
    2008, and operating margin for the year was 4.9% compared with
    11.2% in the prior year. Approximately 260 basis points of
    the decrease in operating margin was a result of restructuring
    charges, primarily related to the significant US store closures.
    Softness in US revenues along with higher cost of sales
    including occupancy costs and store operating expenses were also
    significant drivers in the margin decline.

EPS for fiscal 2008 was $0.43, compared to EPS of $0.87 per
    share earned in the prior year. Restructuring charges and costs
    associated with the execution of the transformation agenda
    impacted EPS by approximately $0.28 per share in fiscal 2008.

22

Table of Contents   

Significant
    Actions Taken in Fiscal 2008   

The more significant actions taken by Starbucks in fiscal 2008
    to transform and reinvigorate its business included:

A plan to close approximately 600 underperforming
    Company-operated stores in the US market, of which 205 were
    closed as of fiscal year-end with the remaining stores to be
    closed by the end of fiscal 2009;

Restructuring the Company s Australia business by closing
    61 Company-operated stores, focusing on the remaining 23 stores
    in three key metro areas;

Reducing approximately 1,000 open and filled positions within
    the Company s leadership structure and its non-store
    organization, to rationalize its infrastructure for the reduced
    number of stores; and

Introducing new beverage platforms designed to reinvigorate the
    Starbucks beverage offerings, new breakfast food offerings and
    bakery and chilled foods, including health and wellness choices,
    and a new, everyday brewed coffee, Pike
    Place  tm  

    Roast, which returned the Company to the practice of grinding
    whole beans in stores and brewing every 30 minutes to provide
    customers with the freshest coffee possible.

Fiscal
    2009   The View Ahead   

Management expects the Company to continue to face a very
    difficult economic environment throughout fiscal 2009, both in
    the US and internationally, including in its two largest
    Company-operated markets of Canada and the UK. As the global
    financial crisis has broadened and intensified, other sectors of
    the global economy have been adversely impacted and a severe
    global recession of uncertain length now appears likely. As a
    retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending,
    the Company expects to face an extremely challenging fiscal 2009
    because of these economic conditions. Accordingly, Starbucks
    expects to report negative comparable store sales for fiscal
    2009. Additionally, the Company s earnings for fiscal 2009
    will be impacted by lease termination and severance costs from
    the US and Australia store closures, totaling up to an estimated
    $0.12 of EPS for fiscal 2009. The Company estimates that the
    combination of the US and Australia store closures and head
    count reductions will result in a pre-tax benefit to operating
    income of approximately $200 million to $210 million
    in fiscal 2009, which equates to approximately $0.17 to $0.18 of
    EPS.

Starbucks plans to be disciplined in its approach to new store
    openings, in both Company-operated and licensed markets, and
    adjust as needed in response to further worsening in the global
    economy. Starbucks fiscal 2009 US store opening target is
    approximately a negative 20 net new stores, which includes
    a nearly 225 Company-operated store decline and approximately
    205 net new licensed stores. Internationally, Starbucks is
    planning to open approximately 700 net new stores in fiscal
    2009, two-thirds of which are expected to be licensed, as it
    factors in the current global economic climate, with a more
    cautious approach in the UK and western Europe.

Operating
    Segment Overview   

Starbucks has three reportable operating segments: United
    States, International and CPG.

The United States and International segments both include
    Company-operated retail stores, licensed retail stores and
    foodservice operations. Licensed stores frequently have a higher
    operating margin than Company-operated stores. Under the
    licensed model, Starbucks receives a reduced share of the total
    store revenues, but this is more than offset by the reduction in
    its share of costs as these are primarily borne by the licensee.
    The International segment has a higher relative share of
    licensed stores versus Company-operated compared to the US
    segment; however, the US segment has been operating
    significantly longer than the International segment and has
    developed deeper awareness of, and attachment to, the Starbucks
    brand and stores among its customer base. As a result, the more
    mature US segment has significantly more stores, and higher
    total revenues than the International segment. Average sales per
    store are also higher in the US due to various factors including
    length of time in market and local income levels. Further,
    certain market costs, particularly occupancy costs, are lower in
    the US segment compared to the average for the International
    segment, which comprises a more diverse group of operations. As
    a result of the relative strength of the brand in the US
    segment, the number of stores, the higher unit volumes, and the
    lower market costs, the US segment, despite its higher relative
    percentage of Company-operated stores, has a higher operating
    margin, excluding restructuring costs, than the less-developed
    International segment.

23

Table of Contents   

The Company s International store base continues to
    increase and Starbucks has been achieving a growing contribution
    from established international markets while at the same time
    investing in emerging markets, such as China, Brazil and Russia.
    The Company s newer international markets require a more
    extensive support organization, relative to the current levels
    of revenue and operating income.

The CPG segment includes packaged coffee and tea as well as
    branded products operations worldwide. The CPG segment operates
    primarily through joint ventures and licensing arrangements with
    large consumer products business partners, most significantly
    The North American Coffee Partnership with the Pepsi-Cola
    Company for distribution of ready-to-drink beverages, and with
    Kraft Foods Inc. for distribution of packaged coffees and teas.
    This operating model allows the CPG segment to leverage the
    business partners  existing infrastructures and to extend
    the Starbucks brand in an efficient way. Most of the customer
    revenues from the ready-to-drink and packaged coffee channels
    are recognized as revenues by the joint venture or licensed
    business partner, not by the CPG segment, and the proportionate
    share of the results of the Company s joint ventures are
    included on a net basis in  Income from equity
    investees  on the consolidated statements of earnings. As a
    result, the CPG segment reflects relatively lower revenues, a
    modest cost structure, and a resulting higher operating margin,
    compared to the Company s other two reporting segments,
    which consist primarily of retail stores.

Expenses pertaining to corporate administrative functions that
    support the operating segments but are not specifically
    attributable to or managed by any segment are not included in
    the reported financial results of the operating segments. These
    unallocated corporate expenses include certain general and
    administrative expenses, related depreciation and amortization
    expenses, restructuring charges and amounts included in
     Interest income and other, net  and  Interest
    expense  on the consolidated statements of earnings.

Acquisitions  

See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in this
     10-K. 

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS   FISCAL 2008 COMPARED TO FISCAL
    2007  

Consolidated
    results of operations (in millions):  

Net revenues for the fiscal year ended 2008 increased due to
    growth in both Company-operated retail revenues and specialty
    operations.

During fiscal 2008, Starbucks derived 84% of total net revenues
    from its Company-operated retail stores. Company-operated retail
    revenues increased, primarily attributable to the opening of 681
    new Company-operated retail stores in the last 12 months,
    offset by negative 3% comparable store sales for the same
    period. Revenue growth was slower than in previous years due to
    a combination of declining comparable store sales and a decrease
    in the number of net new stores opened during fiscal 2008. The
    weakness in consolidated comparable store sales was driven by
    the US segment, which posted a comparable store sales decline of
    5% for the year. Partially offsetting this was 2% comparable
    store sales growth in the International segment. Within fiscal
    2008, consolidated quarterly revenue

24

Table of Contents   

growth decelerated each quarter and comparable store sales
    declined each quarter, reflecting the ongoing challenging
    economic conditions in the US.

The Company derived the remaining 16% of total net revenues from
    channels outside the Company-operated retail stores,
    collectively known as specialty operations. Licensing revenues,
    which are derived from retail store licensing arrangements as
    well as grocery, warehouse club and certain other
    branded-product operations, increased primarily due to higher
    product sales and royalty revenues from the opening of 988 new
    licensed retail stores in the last 12 months. The increase
    in Foodservice and other revenues was primarily driven by growth
    in new and existing accounts in the US foodservice business.

For fiscal 2009, the Company expects total revenues to be
    relatively flat compared to fiscal 2008, with variations driven
    by the level of comparable store sales.

As discussed in the Management Overview section above, many of
    the Company s operating expenses are fixed in nature. As a
    result, the softness in US revenues during fiscal 2008 impacted
    nearly all consolidated and US segment operating expense line
    items when viewed as a percentage of sales, and pressured
    operating margins.

Cost of sales including occupancy costs increased primarily due
    to higher distribution costs and higher rent expenses as a
    percentage of revenues. Store operating expenses as a percentage
    of Company-operated retail revenues increased primarily due to
    higher payroll expenditures as a percentage of revenues coupled
    with impairment provisions in the US business, primarily driven
    by the slowdown in projected store openings. Depreciation and
    amortization expenses increased primarily due to the opening of
    681 new Company-operated retail stores in the last
    12 months. General and administrative expenses decreased
    primarily due to lower payroll-related expenses. Restructuring
    charges include asset impairment, lease exit and severance
    costs. These costs are associated with the closure of
    underperforming stores in the US and Australia, and the
    rationalization of the Company s leadership structure and
    non-store organization. See Note 3 to the consolidated
    financial statements for further discussion.

25

Table of Contents   

Operating margin compression was primarily due to lower
    revenues; in addition, restructuring charges accounted for
    approximately 40% of the decrease.

Interest income and other net, decreased due primarily to
    unrealized market value losses on the Company s trading
    securities portfolio. As described in more detail in Note 4
    to the consolidated financial statements, the trading securities
    approximate a portion of the Company s liability under its
    Management Deferred Compensation Plan ( MDCP ). The
    MDCP liability also increases and decreases with changes in
    investment performance, with this offsetting impact recorded in
     General and administrative expenses  on the
    consolidated statements of earnings. Interest expense increased
    due to the Company s issuance of $550 million of
     10-year 
    6.25% Senior Notes in August of fiscal 2007.

Income taxes for the fiscal year ended 2008 resulted in an
    effective tax rate of 31.3% compared to 36.3% for fiscal 2007.
    The lower rate is due to the higher proportion of income earned
    in foreign jurisdictions which have lower tax rates, as well as
    an increase in the domestic manufacturing deduction for
    manufacturing activities in the US.

Operating
    Segments  

Segment information is prepared on the same basis that the
    Company s management reviews financial information for
    operational decision-making purposes. Starbucks has three
    reportable operating segments: United States, International and
    CPG.  Unallocated Corporate  includes expenses
    pertaining to corporate administrative functions that support
    the operating segments but are not specifically attributable to
    or managed by any segment and are not included in the reported
    financial results of the operating segments. Operating income
    represents earnings before  Interest income and other,
    net,   Interest expense  and  Income
    taxes.  The following tables summarize the Company s
    results of operations by segment for fiscal 2008 and 2007 ( in
    millions ).

United
    States   

The United States operating segment sells coffee and other
    beverages, complementary food, whole bean coffees, and coffee
    brewing equipment and merchandise primarily through
    Company-operated retail stores. Specialty operations within the
    United States include licensed retail stores, foodservice
    accounts and other initiatives related to the Company s
    core business.

26

Table of Contents   

Company-operated retail revenues increased primarily due to the
    opening of 445 new Company-operated retail stores in the last
    12 months, partially offset by a 5% decrease in comparable
    store sales for fiscal 2008. The US Company-operated retail
    business continued to experience deteriorating trends in
    transactions during the year, driven by the US economic slowdown.

Licensing revenues increased primarily due to higher product
    sales and royalty revenues as a result of opening 438 new
    licensed retail stores in the last 12 months. Foodservice
    and other revenues increased primarily due to growth in new and
    existing foodservice accounts.

Operating margin contracted significantly primarily due to
    restructuring charges incurred and to softer revenues due to
    weak traffic, as well as higher cost of sales including
    occupancy costs and higher store operating expenses as a
    percentage of revenues. Restructuring charges of
    $210.9 million had a 270 basis point impact on the
    operating margin. The increase in cost of sales including
    occupancy costs was primarily due to higher distribution costs
    and higher rent expenses as a percentage of revenues. Higher
    store operating expenses was due to the softer sales, higher
    payroll-related expenditures, and charges from canceling future
    store sites and asset impairments.

International   

The International operating segment sells coffee and other
    beverages, complementary food, whole bean coffees, and coffee
    brewing equipment and merchandise through Company-operated
    retail stores in Canada, the UK and nine other markets.
    Specialty operations primarily include retail store licensing
    operations in nearly forty other countries and foodservice
    accounts, primarily in Canada and Japan. The Company s
    International store base continues to increase and Starbucks
    expects to achieve a growing contribution from established areas
    of the business while at the same time investing in emerging
    markets and channels. Many of the Company s International
    operations are in early stages of development that require a
    more extensive support organization, relative to the current
    levels of revenue and operating income, than in the United
    States. This continuing investment is part of the Company s
    long-term, balanced plan for profitable growth.

27

Table of Contents   

Company-operated retail revenues increased due to the opening of
    236 new Company-operated retail stores in the last
    12 months, favorable foreign currency exchange rates,
    primarily on the Canadian dollar, and comparable store sales
    growth of 2% for fiscal 2008. In the fourth quarter of fiscal
    2008, Company-operated retail revenues grew at a slower rate
    year-over-year of 12% and comparable store sales were flat
    compared to the same quarter in fiscal 2007, both driven by
    slowdowns in the UK and Canada, due to the weakening global
    economy.

Specialty revenues increased primarily due to higher product
    sales and royalty revenues from opening 550 new licensed retail
    stores in the last 12 months.

Operating margin decreased primarily due to higher cost of sales
    including occupancy costs driven by continued expansion of lunch
    and warming programs in Canada, higher distribution costs, and
    higher building maintenance expense due to store renovation
    activities. In addition, restructuring charges of
    $19.2 million recognized in fiscal 2008 had a 90 basis
    point impact on the operating margin, nearly all due to the
    closure of 61 Company-operated stores in Australia.

Global
    Consumer Products Group   

The CPG operating segment sells a selection of whole bean and
    ground coffees and premium
    Tazo   

    teas through licensing arrangements in United States and
    international markets. CPG also produces and sells a variety of
    ready-to-drink beverages through its joint ventures and
    marketing and distribution agreements.

28

Table of Contents   

Total net revenues increased primarily due to higher royalties
    and product sales in the international ready-to-drink business
    and increased sales of US packaged tea and International club
    packaged coffee.

Growth of operating margin was primarily due to lower cost of
    sales as a percentage of related revenues, partially offset by
    lower income from equity investees. Lower cost of sales was
    primarily due to a sales mix shift to more profitable products.

Unallocated
    Corporate   

Unallocated corporate expenses pertain to corporate
    administrative functions that support, but are not specifically
    attributable to the Company s operating segments.

Total unallocated corporate expenses remained relatively flat
    due to lower payroll-related expenditures, which were offset by
    restructuring charges incurred for corporate office facilities
    that were no longer occupied by the Company due to the reduction
    in positions within Starbucks leadership structure and non-store
    organization.

29

Table of Contents   

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS   FISCAL 2007 COMPARED TO FISCAL
    2006  

Consolidated
    Results of Operations (in millions):  

Net revenues for the fiscal year ended 2007 increased from
    fiscal 2006, driven by increases in both Company-operated retail
    revenues and specialty operations.

During the fiscal year ended 2007, Starbucks derived 85% of
    total net revenues from its Company-operated retail stores.
    Company-operated retail revenues increased primarily due to the
    opening of 1,342 new Company-operated retail stores in the last
    12 months and comparable store sales growth of 5% for the
    fiscal year ended 2007. The increase in comparable store sales
    was due to a 4% increase in the average value per transaction
    and a 1% increase in the number of customer transactions.

The Company derived the remaining 15% of total net revenues from
    channels outside the Company-operated retail stores,
    collectively known as specialty operations. Licensing revenues,
    which are derived from retail store licensing arrangements as
    well as grocery, warehouse club and certain other
    branded-product operations, increased primarily due to higher
    product sales and royalty revenues from the opening of 1,229 new
    licensed retail stores in the last 12 months and a 20%
    increase in licensing revenues from the Company s CPG
    business. Foodservice and other revenues increased due to growth
    in new and existing accounts in the US foodservice business.

30

Table of Contents   

Cost of sales including occupancy costs increased primarily due
    to a shift in sales mix to higher cost products, the rise in
    distribution costs, higher rent expense and higher dairy costs.
    Dairy expense for the US segment represents approximately 75% of
    the total Company s dairy expense. For the US segment the
    average dairy costs per gallon rose 10% in fiscal 2007 compared
    to fiscal 2006, resulting in approximately $20 million of
    additional expense.

Store operating expenses as a percentage of Company-operated
    retail revenues decreased primarily due to higher provisions for
    incentive compensation in the prior year due to exceptionally
    strong performance as well as leverage on regional overhead
    costs in fiscal 2007. Other operating expenses decreased
    primarily as a result of controlled discretionary spending in
    fiscal 2007. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased
    primarily due to the opening of 1,342 new Company-operated
    retail stores in the last 12 months. General and
    administrative expenses increased primarily due to higher
    payroll-related expenditures in support of continued global
    growth, offset in part by unusually high charitable
    contributions in fiscal 2006. Income from equity investees
    increased primarily due to higher equity income from
    international investees.

Operating margin compression was due to higher costs of sales
    and occupancy costs as a percentage of total net revenues due to
    a shift in sales to higher cost products and higher distribution
    costs, rent expense and dairy costs. These cost pressures were
    offset in part by leveraging general and administrative
    expenses, store operating expenses, and other operating expenses
    as a percentage of total net revenues.

Interest income and other, net, increased due to a higher amount
    of income recognized on unredeemed stored value card and gift
    certificate balances in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006.
    Interest expense increased due to a higher level of borrowings
    outstanding, which included the $550 million of Senior
    Notes issued in August 2007.

Income taxes for the fiscal year ended 2007 resulted in an
    effective tax rate of 36.3%, compared to 35.8% for fiscal 2006.

31

Table of Contents   

Operating
    Segments (in millions):  

United
    States   

Company-operated retail revenues increased primarily due to the
    opening of 1,065 new Company-operated retail stores in the last
    12 months and comparable store sales growth of 4% for
    fiscal 2007, nearly all resulting from an increase in the
    average value per transaction. The US Company-operated retail
    business experienced deteriorating trends in transactions late
    in the year, driven by, management believes, the US economic
    slowdown combined with two price increases in US retail stores
    implemented in fiscal 2007.

Licensing revenues increased primarily due to higher product
    sales and royalty revenues as a result of opening 723 new
    licensed retail stores in the last 12 months. Foodservice
    and other revenues increased primarily due to growth in new and
    existing foodservice accounts.

Operating margin decreased due to higher cost of sales including
    occupancy costs, primarily due to a shift in sales mix to higher
    cost products such as food and merchandise, higher distribution
    costs, higher rent expense and higher dairy costs. Partially
    offsetting these were lower store operating expenses, lower
    general and administrative expenses, and lower other operating
    expenses as a percentage of total net revenues. The decline in
    store operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues
    was primarily due to higher provisions for incentive
    compensation in the prior year as well as leverage on regional
    overhead costs in fiscal 2007. General and administrative
    expenses were lower primarily due to decreased salary and
    related benefits expense as well as lower professional fees. The

32

Table of Contents   

decline in other operating expenses as a percentage of total net
    revenues was primarily due to controlled discretionary spending
    in the current year.

International   

Company-operated retail revenues increased due to the opening of
    277 new Company-operated retail stores in the last
    12 months, comparable store sales growth of 7% for fiscal
    2007 and favorable foreign currency exchange for the British
    pound sterling. The increase in comparable store sales resulted
    from a 5% increase in the number of customer transactions
    coupled with a 2% increase in the average value per transaction.

Total specialty revenues increased primarily due to higher
    product sales and royalty revenues from opening 506 new licensed
    retail stores in the last 12 months.

Operating margin decreased primarily due to higher cost of sales
    including occupancy costs due in part to a shift in sales mix to
    higher cost products such as food and merchandise and higher
    distribution costs. Partially offsetting this increase was lower
    general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total net
    revenues.

33

Table of Contents   

Global
    Consumer Products Group   

Total net revenues increased primarily due to increased sales of
    US packaged coffee and tea as well as increased product sales
    and royalties in the international ready-to-drink business.

Operating margin contraction was primarily due to slower growth
    in income from The North American Coffee Partnership, an equity
    investee, which produces ready-to-drink beverages.

Unallocated
    Corporate   

Unallocated corporate expenses as a percentage of total net
    revenues decreased primarily as a result of leveraging of the
    Company s scale and infrastructure against global growth.

LIQUIDITY
    AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

The Company s existing cash and liquid investments were
    $322.3 million and $459.7 million as of
    September 28, 2008 and September 30, 2007,
    respectively. The decrease in liquid investments was driven
    primarily by $59.8 million of auction rate securities,
    nearly all of which are held within the Company s wholly
    owned captive insurance company, that are not currently
    considered liquid and were reclassified to long-term investments
    in the second quarter of fiscal 2008.

34

Table of Contents   

Included in the cash and liquid investment balances are the
    following:

A portfolio of unrestricted trading securities, designed to
    hedge the Company s liability under its Management Deferred
    Compensation Plan ( MDCP ). The value of this
    portfolio was $49.5 million and $73.6 million as of
    September 28, 2008 and September 30, 2007,
    respectively. The decrease was driven by the sale of a bond
    income fund to better align with the Company s total risk
    profile and declines in market values of the underlying equity
    funds, which were offset by a comparable decline in the MDCP
    liability.

Unrestricted cash and liquid securities, held within the
    Company s wholly owned captive insurance company, to fund
    claim payouts. The value of these unrestricted cash and liquid
    securities was approximately $35.6 million and
    $98.1 million as of September 28, 2008 and
    September 30, 2007, respectively. The decrease was due
    primarily to reclassification of auction rate securities held by
    the wholly owned captive.

As described in more detail in Note 4 to the consolidated
    financial statements, as of September 28, 2008, the Company
    had $74.4 million invested in available-for-sale
    securities, consisting primarily of auction rate securities.
    While the ongoing auction failures will limit the liquidity of
    these investments for some period of time, the Company does not
    believe the auction failures will materially impact its ability
    to fund its working capital needs, capital expenditures or other
    business requirements.

The Company manages the balance of its cash and liquid
    investments in order to internally fund operating needs and make
    scheduled interest and principal payments on its borrowings.

Following the Company s announcement on July 1, 2008 that
    it planned to close approximately 600 underperforming
    US Company-operated stores and reduce new store growth in
    fiscal year 2009, Standard   Poor s placed the
    BBB+ long-term rating and
     A-2  short
    term ratings for Starbucks on CreditWatch with negative
    implications. On July 3, 2008, Moody s placed the Baa1
    senior unsecured rating for Starbucks on review for possible
    downgrade, however Moody s reaffirmed the Company s
    Prime-2 short-term rating for commercial paper. Standard and
    Poor s and Moody s subsequently downgraded the
    long-term ratings as of September 4, 2008 and November 17,
    2008, respectively.

Credit rating agencies currently rate the Company s
    borrowings as follows:

Description 

Standard   Poor s 

Moody s 

Short term debt

A-2

P-2

Senior unsecured long term debt

BBB

Baa2

Outlook

Stable

Negative

Standard   Poor s downgraded the Company s
    long-term rating from BBB+ to BBB on September 4, 2008, and
    re-affirmed the
     A-2 
    short-term rating. At the same time, Standard  
    Poor s outlook was changed to stable.

Moody s downgraded the Company s long-term rating from
    Baa1 to Baa2 on November 17, 2008, and re-affirmed the
    Company s Prime-2 short term rating for commercial paper.
    At the same time, Moody s outlook was changed to negative.

Factors that may affect credit ratings include changes in the
    Company s operating performance, the economic environment
    and the Company s capital structure. In order to maintain
    its credit ratings, there is an expectation that the Company
    will modestly reduce its leverage during fiscal 2009. The
    Company expects to improve its leverage ratio below a certain
    target level primarily through the reduction in short term
    borrowings. Credit rating downgrades can adversely impact, among
    other things, future borrowing costs, access to capital markets,
    and future operating lease terms. If either of the
    Company s short-term ratings were downgraded, it would
    likely make the issuance of commercial paper difficult. In these
    circumstances the Company could draw upon its credit facility.

In normal market conditions, it is generally more favorable for
    the Company to issue commercial paper rather than borrow against
    the credit facility. However, as described in Item 1A Risk
    Factors the ongoing global financial crisis may result in
    conditions where commercial paper is not available at reasonable
    rates. In such situations the Company is more likely to draw on
    its credit facility. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008,
    the Company borrowed against the credit facility as liquidity
    conditions in the commercial paper market deteriorated. As of
    September 28, 2008, borrowings outstanding under the credit
    facility totaled $300 million.

35

Table of Contents   

The Company s credit facility contains provisions requiring
    Starbucks to maintain compliance with certain covenants,
    including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. As of
    September 28, 2008 and September 30, 2007, the Company
    was in compliance with each of these covenants. On
    October 31, 2008, the Company entered into an amendment to
    the credit facility to exclude up to $130 million of lease
    termination expenses and lease exit costs incurred during the
    period beginning on June 30, 2008 and ending
    September 27, 2009 from the agreement s
     Operating Lease and Rental Expense  definition. The
    purpose of the amendment was to limit the short-term effects of
    lease-related restructuring expenses from the Company s
    store closure actions on the fixed charge coverage ratio. These
    expenses would have otherwise put pressure on the coverage ratio
    and raised the risk of the Company losing access to liquidity.
    Over the long term, the reduction in lease expense and
    improvement in operating cash flows resulting from these store
    closures are expected to have a favorable effect on this
    coverage ratio. The amendment also increased the cost to borrow
    under the facility by an additional 0.10% to 0.40%, depending on
    the Company s fixed charge ratio and its senior unsecured
    debt rating.

The $550 million of
     10-year 
    6.25% Senior Notes, issued in the fourth quarter of fiscal
    2007, also require Starbucks to maintain compliance with certain
    covenants that limit future liens and sale and leaseback
    transactions on certain material properties. As of
    September 28, 2008 and September 30, 2007, the Company
    was in compliance with each of these covenants.

The Company expects to use its cash and liquid investments,
    including any borrowings under its revolving credit facility and
    commercial paper program to invest in its core businesses,
    including new beverage innovations, as well as other new
    business opportunities related to its core businesses. The
    Company may use its available cash resources to make
    proportionate capital contributions to its equity method and
    cost method investees. Any decisions to increase its ownership
    interest in its equity method investees or licensed operations
    will be driven by valuation and fit with the Company s
    ownership strategy and are likely to be infrequent.

Depending on market conditions and within the constraint of
    maintaining an appropriate capital structure, Starbucks may
    repurchase shares of its common stock under its authorized share
    repurchase program. Due to the current challenging operating and
    economic environment, the Company continues to be conservative
    in its uses of cash and did not repurchase any shares in the
    second, third or fourth quarters of fiscal 2008. Management also
    does not currently anticipate any share repurchases in fiscal
    2009. Management believes that cash flows generated from
    operations and existing cash and liquid investments should be
    sufficient to finance capital requirements for its core
    businesses for the foreseeable future, as well as to fund the
    cost of lease termination and severance costs from the US and
    Australia store closures. As a result, the Company expects to
    decrease short-term borrowings in fiscal 2009. Significant new
    joint ventures, acquisitions
     and/or  other
    new business opportunities may require additional outside
    funding.

Other than normal operating expenses, cash requirements for
    fiscal 2009 are expected to consist primarily of capital
    expenditures for new Company-operated retail stores, remodeling
    and refurbishment of existing Company-operated retail stores,
    and new equipment to support enhanced quality standards and
    expanded offerings in the stores. Other capital expenditures in
    fiscal 2009 are expected to consist principally of investments
    in information technology systems and in the Company s
    global supply chain operations. Total expenditures for fiscal
    2009 are expected to be approximately $700 million.

Cash provided by operating activities decreased by
    $72.5 million to $1.3 billion for fiscal 2008 compared
    to the corresponding period of fiscal 2007. The modest decrease
    was primarily due to the slowing pace of store construction
    which led to a decline in the balance in accounts payable
    year-over-year.

Cash used by investing activities for fiscal 2008 totaled
    $1.1 billion. Net capital additions to property, plant and
    equipment used $984.5 million, primarily from opening new
    Company-operated retail stores and remodeling certain existing
    stores during fiscal 2008. In addition, the sale and maturity of
    available-for-sale securities provided $75.9 million and
    $20.0 million, respectively, for fiscal 2008, consisting
    primarily of auction rate securities and agency notes. The
    auction rate securities were sold through the normal auction
    process prior to the auction failures that began in mid-February
    2008, as described in Note 4 to the consolidated financial
    statements, and the agency notes, issued by government-sponsored
    enterprises, were called in the first half of fiscal 2008.

Cash used by financing activities for fiscal 2008 totaled
    $184.5 million. Cash used to repurchase shares of the
    Company s common stock totaled $311.4 million, all in
    the first quarter of fiscal 2008. This amount includes the

36

Table of Contents   

effect of the net change in unsettled trades from
    September 30, 2007 of $16.1 million. Net repayments of
    commercial paper were $297.2 million and net borrowings
    under short term borrowings were $299.4 million for fiscal
    2008. As of September 28, 2008, a total of
    $713.2 million in borrowings were outstanding under the
    combined commercial paper program and revolving credit facility,
    as well as $15.9 million in letters of credit which were
    outstanding under the credit facility, leaving
    $270.9 million of capacity available under the
    $1 billion combined commercial paper program and revolving
    credit facility. Partially offsetting cash used for share
    repurchases were proceeds of $112.3 million from the
    exercise of employee stock options and the sale of the
    Company s common stock from employee stock purchase plans.
    As options granted are exercised, Starbucks will continue to
    receive proceeds and a tax deduction, but the amount and the
    timing of these cash flows cannot be reliably predicted as
    option holders  decisions to exercise options will be
    largely driven by movements in the Company s stock price.

The following table summarizes the Company s contractual
    obligations and borrowings as of September 28, 2008, and
    the timing and effect that such commitments are expected to have
    on the Company s liquidity and capital requirements in
    future periods ( in millions ):

(1)  

Liabilities for incomes taxes under FIN 48 were excluded as
    the Company is not able to make a reasonably reliable estimate
    of the amount and period of related future payments. As of
    September 28, 2008, the Company had $52.6 million of
    gross unrecognized tax benefits under FIN 48. 

(2)  

Debt amounts include principal maturities and expected interest
    payments on commercial paper, credit facility borrowings, and
    long-term debt. 

(3)  

Amounts include the direct lease obligations, excluding any
    taxes, insurance and other related expenses. 

(4)  

Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or
    services that are enforceable and legally binding on Starbucks
    and that specify all significant terms. Purchase obligations
    relate primarily to green coffee. 

(5)  

Other obligations include other long-term liabilities primarily
    consisting of asset retirement obligations, capital lease
    obligations and hedging instruments. 

Starbucks expects to fund these commitments primarily with
    operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business,
    as well as ongoing borrowings under the combined commercial
    paper program and revolving credit facility.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangement  

The Company s off-balance sheet arrangements relate to
    certain guarantees and are detailed in Note 17 to the
    consolidated financial statements in this
     10-K. 

COMMODITY
    PRICES, AVAILABILITY AND GENERAL RISK CONDITIONS  

Commodity price risk represents the Company s primary
    market risk, generated by its purchases of green coffee and
    dairy products. The Company purchases, roasts and sells
    high-quality whole bean arabica coffee and related products and
    risk arises from the price volatility of green coffee. In
    addition to coffee, the Company also purchases significant
    amounts of dairy products to support the needs of its
    Company-operated retail stores. The price and availability of
    these commodities directly impacts the Company s results of
    operations and can be expected to impact its future results of
    operations. For additional details see Product Supply in
    Item 1, as well as Risk Factors in Item 1A of this
     10-K. 

37

Table of Contents   

FINANCIAL
    RISK MANAGEMENT  

Market risk is defined as the risk of losses due to changes in
    commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, equity
    prices, and interest rates. The Company manages its exposure to
    various market-based risks according to an umbrella risk
    management policy. Under this policy, market-based risks are
    quantified and evaluated for potential mitigation strategies,
    such as entering into hedging transactions. The umbrella risk
    management policy governs the hedging instruments the business
    may use and limits the dollar risk to net earnings. The Company
    also monitors and limits the amount of associated counterparty
    credit risk. Additionally, this policy restricts, among other
    things, the amount of market-based risk the Company will
    tolerate before implementing approved hedging strategies and
    prohibits speculative trading activity. In general, hedge
    instruments do not have maturities in excess of five years.

The sensitivity analyses performed below provide only a limited,
     point-in-time 
    view of the market risk of the financial instruments discussed.
    The actual impact of the respective underlying rates and price
    changes on the financial instruments may differ significantly
    from those shown in the sensitivity analyses.

Commodity
    Price Risk  

The Company purchases commodity inputs, including coffee and
    dairy products that are used in its operations and are subject
    to price fluctuations that impact its financial results. In
    addition to fixed-priced contracts and price-to-be-fixed
    contracts for coffee purchases, the Company may enter into
    commodity hedges to manage commodity price risk using financial
    derivative instruments. The Company performed a sensitivity
    analysis based on a 10% change in the underlying commodity
    prices of its commodity hedges, as of the end of fiscal 2008,
    and determined that such a change would not have a significant
    effect on the fair value of these instruments.

Foreign
    Currency Exchange Risk  

The majority of the Company s revenue, expense and capital
    purchasing activities are transacted in US dollars. However,
    because a portion of the Company s operations consists of
    activities outside of the United States, the Company has
    transactions in other currencies, primarily the Canadian dollar,
    British pound sterling, euro, and Japanese yen. As a result,
    Starbucks may engage in transactions involving various
    derivative instruments to hedge revenues, inventory purchases,
    assets, and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.

As of September 28, 2008, the Company had forward foreign
    exchange contracts that hedge portions of anticipated
    international revenue streams and inventory purchases. In
    addition, Starbucks had forward foreign exchange contracts that
    qualify as accounting hedges of its net investment in Starbucks
    Japan, as well as the Company s net investments in its
    Canada, UK, and China subsidiaries, to minimize foreign currency
    exposure.

The Company also had forward foreign exchange contracts that are
    not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes
    (free standing derivatives), but which largely offset the
    financial impact of translating certain foreign currency
    denominated payables and receivables. Increases or decreases in
    the fair value of these hedges are generally offset by
    corresponding decreases or increases in the US dollar value of
    the Company s foreign currency denominated payables and
    receivables (i.e.  hedged items ) that would occur
    within the hedging period.

The following table summarizes the potential impact to the
    Company s future net earnings and other comprehensive
    income ( OCI ) from changes in the fair value of these
    derivative financial instruments due in turn to a change in the
    value of the US dollar as compared to the level of foreign
    exchange rates. The information provided below relates only to
    the hedging instruments and does not represent the corresponding
    changes in the underlying hedged items ( in millions ):

September 28,
    2008    

Increase/(Decrease) to Net Earnings 

Increase/(Decrease) to OCI 

10% Increase in 

10% Decrease in 

10% Increase in 

10% Decrease in 

Underlying Rate 

Underlying Rate 

Underlying Rate 

Underlying Rate 

Foreign currency hedges

$

68

(56

)

15

(19

)

38

Table of Contents   

Equity
    Security Price Risk  

The Company has minimal exposure to price fluctuations on equity
    mutual funds within its trading portfolio. The trading
    securities approximate a portion of the Company s liability
    under the MDCP. A corresponding liability is included in
     Accrued compensation and related costs  on the
    consolidated balance sheets. These investments are recorded at
    fair value with unrealized gains and losses recognized in
     Interest income and other, net  in the consolidated
    statements of earnings. The offsetting changes in the MDCP
    liability are recorded in  General and administrative
    expenses.  The Company performed a sensitivity analysis
    based on a 10% change in the underlying equity prices of its
    investments, as of the end of fiscal 2008, and determined that
    such a change would not have a significant effect on the fair
    value of these instruments.

Interest
    Rate Risk  

The Company utilizes short-term and long-term financing and may
    use interest rate hedges to manage the effect of interest rate
    changes on its existing debt as well as the anticipated issuance
    of new debt. At the end of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, the
    Company did not have any interest rate hedge agreements
    outstanding.

The following table summarizes the impact of a change in
    interest rates on the fair value of the Company s debt
    ( in millions ):

September 28,
    2008    

The Company s available-for-sale securities comprise a
    diversified portfolio consisting mainly of fixed income
    instruments. The primary objectives of these investments are to
    preserve capital and liquidity. Available-for-sale securities
    are investment grade and are recorded on the consolidated
    balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains and losses
    reported as a separate component of  Accumulated other
    comprehensive income.  The Company does not hedge the
    interest rate exposure on its available-for-sale securities. The
    Company performed a sensitivity analysis based on a
    100 basis point change in the underlying interest rate of
    its available-for-sale securities as of the end of fiscal 2008,
    and determined that such a change would not have a significant
    effect on the fair value of these instruments.

APPLICATION
    OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Critical accounting policies are those that management believes
    are both most important to the portrayal of the Company s
    financial condition and results, and require management s
    most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a
    result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters
    that are inherently uncertain. Judgments and uncertainties
    affecting the application of those policies may result in
    materially different amounts being reported under different
    conditions or using different assumptions.

Starbucks considers its policies on asset impairment,
    stock-based compensation, operating leases, self insurance
    reserves and income taxes to be the most critical in
    understanding the judgments that are involved in preparing its
    consolidated financial statements.

Asset
    Impairment  

When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values
    of long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation of
    recoverability is performed by comparing the carrying values of
    the assets to projected future cash flows, in addition to other
    quantitative and qualitative analyses. For goodwill and other
    intangible assets, impairment tests are performed annually and
    more frequently if facts and circumstances indicate goodwill
    carrying values exceed estimated reporting unit fair values and
    if indefinite useful lives are no longer appropriate for the
    Company s trademarks. Upon indication that the carrying
    values of such assets may not be recoverable, the Company
    recognizes an impairment loss as a charge against current
    operations. Judgments made by the Company related to

39

Table of Contents   

the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and the ability
    of the Company to realize undiscounted cash flows in excess of
    the carrying amounts of such assets are affected by factors such
    as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of the assets,
    changes in economic conditions and changes in operating
    performance. As the Company assesses the ongoing expected cash
    flows and carrying amounts of its long-lived assets, these
    factors could cause the Company to realize material impairment
    charges.

Stock-based
    Compensation  

Starbucks accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance
    with the fair value recognition provisions of
    SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment.  The
    Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model which
    requires the input of subjective assumptions. These assumptions
    include estimating the length of time employees will retain
    their stock options before exercising them ( expected
    term ), the estimated volatility of the Company s
    common stock price over the expected term and the number of
    options that will ultimately not complete their vesting
    requirements ( forfeitures ). Changes in the
    subjective assumptions could materially affect the estimate of
    fair value of stock-based compensation; however based on an
    analysis using changes in certain assumptions that could be
    reasonably possible in the near term, management believes the
    effect on the expense recognized for fiscal 2008 would not have
    been material.

Operating
    Leases  

Starbucks leases retail stores, roasting and distribution
    facilities and office space under operating leases. The Company
    provides for an estimate of asset retirement obligation
    ( ARO ) expense at the lease inception date for
    operating leases with requirements to remove leasehold
    improvements at the end of the lease term. Estimating AROs
    involves subjective assumptions regarding both the amount and
    timing of actual future retirement costs. Future actual costs
    could differ significantly from amounts initially estimated. In
    addition, the large number of operating leases and the
    significant number of international markets in which the Company
    has operating leases adds administrative complexity to the
    calculation of ARO expense, as well as to the other technical
    accounting requirements of operating leases such as contingent
    rent. Starbucks accounts for lease contract termination costs in
    accordance with SFAS 146,  Accounting for Costs
    Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.  Estimating
    the cost of certain lease exit costs involves subjective
    assumptions, including the time it would take to sublease the
    leased location and the related potential sublease income. The
    estimated accruals for these costs could be significantly
    affected if future experience differs from that used in the
    initial estimate.

Self
    Insurance Reserves  

The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance
    mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance entity
    and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for the
    potential liabilities for workers  compensation, healthcare
    benefits, general liability, property insurance, director and
    officers  liability insurance and vehicle liability.
    Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the
    Company are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by
    considering historical claims experience, demographic factors,
    severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated
    accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected
    if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions
    and historical trends.

Income
    Taxes  

Starbucks accounts for income taxes in accordance with
    SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes, 
    which recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based on
    the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts
    and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Accruals for
    uncertain tax positions are accounted for under FASB
    Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109  ( FIN 48 ). Deferred tax
    assets and liabilities are measured using current enacted tax
    rates in effect for the years in which those temporary
    differences are expected to reverse. Judgment is required in
    determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals,
    deferred tax assets and liabilities. These include establishing
    a valuation allowance related to the realizability of certain
    deferred tax assets. Accounting for uncertain tax positions
    requires significant judgments, including estimating the amount,
    timing and likelihood of ultimate settlement. Although the
    Company believes that its estimates are reasonable, actual
    results could differ from these estimates.

40

Table of Contents   

RECENT
    ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this
     10-K. 

Item 7A.    

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the section entitled  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Commodity Prices, Availability and
    General Risk Conditions  and  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Financial Risk Management  in
    Item 7 of this Report.

41

Table of Contents   

Item 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 

In
    millions, except earnings per share  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

42

Table of Contents   

STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS 

In
    millions, except per share data  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

43

Table of Contents   

STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

In
    millions  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

44

Table of Contents   

STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 

In
    millions  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

45

Table of Contents   

STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Fiscal Years ended September 28, 2008,
    September 30, 2007 and October 1, 2006 

Note 1:    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Description
    of Business   

Starbucks Corporation (together with its subsidiaries,
     Starbucks  or the  Company ) purchases and
    roasts high-quality whole bean coffees and sells them, along
    with fresh, rich-brewed coffees, Italian-style espresso
    beverages, cold blended beverages, a variety of complementary
    food items, a selection of premium teas, and coffee-related
    accessories and equipment, primarily through its
    Company-operated retail stores. Starbucks also sells coffee and
    tea products and licenses its trademark through other channels
    such as licensed stores, and, through certain of its equity
    investees and licensees, Starbucks produces and sells a variety
    of ready-to-drink beverages. All channels outside the
    Company-operated retail stores are collectively known as
    specialty operations. Additional details on the nature of the
    Company s business is in Item 1 of this
     10-K. 

Starbucks has three reportable operating segments: United
    States, International and Global Consumer Products Group
    ( CPG ). See Note 18 for additional details.

Principles
    of Consolidation   

The consolidated financial statements reflect the financial
    position and operating results of Starbucks, including wholly
    owned subsidiaries and investees controlled by the Company.
    Investments in entities that the Company does not control, but
    has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating
    and financial policies, are accounted for under the equity
    method. Investments in entities in which Starbucks does not have
    the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for
    under the cost method. Intercompany transactions and balances
    have been eliminated.

Fiscal
    Year End   

Starbucks Corporation s fiscal year ends on the Sunday
    closest to September 30. Some fiscal years include
    53 weeks. The fiscal years ended on September 28,
    2008, September 30, 2007 and October 1, 2006 included
    52 weeks.

Reclassifications   

Certain reclassifications of prior year s balances have
    been made to conform to the current format, including separately
    presenting balances for  Insurance reserves  on the
    consolidated balance sheet.

Estimates
    and Assumptions   

Preparing financial statements in conformity with accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States of America
    ( GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets,
    liabilities, revenues and expenses. Actual results may differ
    from these estimates.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents   

The Company considers all highly liquid instruments with a
    maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase to be
    cash equivalents. The Company maintains cash and cash equivalent
    balances with financial institutions that exceed federally
    insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses
    related to these balances, and management believes its credit
    risk to be minimal.

Cash
    Management   

The Company s cash management system provides for the
    funding of all major bank disbursement accounts on a daily basis
    as checks are presented for payment. Under this system,
    outstanding checks are in excess of the cash

46

Table of Contents   

balances at certain banks, which creates book overdrafts. Book
    overdrafts are presented as a current liability in
     Accounts payable  on the consolidated balance sheets.

Short-term
    and Long-term Investments   

The Company s short-term and long-term investments consist
    primarily of investment-grade debt securities as well as bond
    and equity mutual funds, all of which are classified as
    available-for-sale or trading. As of September 28, 2008, a
    substantial portion of the Company s available-for-sale
    investments consisted of auction rate securities, as described
    in more detail in Note 4. Trading securities are recorded
    at fair value with unrealized holding gains and losses included
    in net earnings. Available-for-sale securities are recorded at
    fair value, and unrealized holding gains and losses are
    recorded, net of tax, as a separate component of accumulated
    other comprehensive income. Available-for-sale securities with
    remaining maturities of less than one year and those identified
    by management at time of purchase for funding operations in less
    than one year are classified as short-term, and all other
    available-for-sale securities are classified as long-term.
    Unrealized losses are charged against net earnings when a
    decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary.
    Management reviews several factors to determine whether a loss
    is other than temporary, such as the length of time a security
    is in an unrealized loss position, the extent to which fair
    value is less than amortized cost, the impact of changing
    interest rates in the short and long term, the financial
    condition and near term prospects of the issuer and the
    Company s intent and ability to hold the security for a
    period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery
    in fair value. Realized gains and losses are accounted for on
    the specific identification method. Purchases and sales are
    recorded on a trade date basis.

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments   

The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates
    fair value because of the short-term maturity of those
    instruments. The fair value of the Company s investments in
    marketable debt and equity securities, as well as bond and
    equity mutual funds, is based upon the quoted market price on
    the last business day of the fiscal year. For equity securities
    of companies that are privately held, or where an observable
    quoted market price does not exist, the Company estimates fair
    value using a variety of valuation methodologies. Such
    methodologies include comparing the security with securities of
    publicly traded companies in similar lines of business, applying
    revenue multiples to estimated future operating results for the
    private company and estimating discounted cash flows for that
    company. Declines in fair value below the Company s
    carrying value deemed to be other than temporary are charged
    against net earnings. For further information on investments,
    see Notes 4 and 7. The fair value of the Company s
    debt is estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same
    or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company
    for debt of the same remaining maturities. The carrying value of
    short-term debt approximates fair value. The estimated fair
    value of Starbucks $550 million of 6.25% Senior Notes
    was approximately $536 million.

Derivative
    Instruments   

The Company manages its exposure to various risks within the
    consolidated financial statements according to an umbrella risk
    management policy. Under this policy, Starbucks may engage in
    transactions involving various derivative instruments, with
    maturities generally not longer than five years, to hedge
    interest rates, commodity prices, and foreign currency
    denominated revenues, purchases, assets and liabilities.

The Company records all derivatives on the balance sheets at
    fair value. For a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the
    derivative s gain or loss is initially reported as a
    component of other comprehensive income ( OCI ) and
    subsequently reclassified into net earnings when the hedged
    exposure affects net earnings. For a net investment hedge, the
    effective portion of the derivative s gain or loss is
    reported as a component of OCI.

Cash flow hedges related to anticipated transactions are
    designated and documented at the inception of each hedge by
    matching the terms of the contract to the underlying
    transaction. The Company classifies the cash flows from hedging
    transactions in the same categories as the cash flows from the
    respective hedged items. Once established, cash flow hedges are
    generally not removed until maturity unless an anticipated
    transaction is no longer likely to occur. Discontinued or
    dedesignated cash flow hedges are immediately settled with
    counterparties, and the related accumulated derivative gains or
    losses are recognized in  Interest income and other,
    net  on the consolidated statements of earnings.

47

Table of Contents   

Forward contract effectiveness for cash flow hedges is
    calculated by comparing the fair value of the contract to the
    change in value of the anticipated transaction using forward
    rates on a monthly basis. For net investment hedges, the
    spot-to-spot method is used to calculate effectiveness. Under
    this method, the change in fair value of the forward contract
    attributable to the changes in spot exchange rates (the
    effective portion) is reported as a component of OCI. The
    remaining change in fair value of the forward contract (the
    ineffective portion) is reclassified into net earnings. Any
    ineffectiveness is recognized immediately in  Interest
    income and other, net  on the consolidated statements of
    earnings.

The Company also entered into foreign currency forward contracts
    that are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting
    purposes. These contracts are recorded at fair value, with the
    changes in fair value recognized in  Interest income and
    other, net  on the consolidated statements of earnings.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts   

Allowance for doubtful accounts is calculated based on
    historical experience, customer credit risk and application of
    the specific identification method. As of September 28,
    2008 and September 30, 2007, the allowance for doubtful
    accounts was $4.5 million and $3.2 million,
    respectively.

Inventories   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (primarily moving
    average cost) or market. The Company records inventory reserves
    for obsolete and slow-moving items and for estimated shrinkage
    between physical inventory counts. Inventory reserves are based
    on inventory turnover trends, historical experience and
    application of the specific identification method. As of
    September 28, 2008 and September 30, 2007, inventory
    reserves were $25.5 million and $14.9 million,
    respectively.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less
    accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property, plant and
    equipment, which includes assets under capital leases, is
    provided on the straight-line method over estimated useful
    lives, generally ranging from two to seven years for equipment
    and 30 to 40 years for buildings. Leasehold improvements
    are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives
    or the related lease life, generally 10 years. For leases
    with renewal periods at the Company s option, Starbucks
    generally uses the original lease term, excluding renewal option
    periods, to determine estimated useful lives. If failure to
    exercise a renewal option imposes an economic penalty to
    Starbucks, management may determine at the inception of the
    lease that renewal is reasonably assured and include the renewal
    option period in the determination of appropriate estimated
    useful lives. The portion of depreciation expense related to
    production and distribution facilities is included in  Cost
    of sales including occupancy costs  on the consolidated
    statements of earnings. The costs of repairs and maintenance are
    expensed when incurred, while expenditures for refurbishments
    and improvements that significantly add to the productive
    capacity or extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized.
    When assets are retired or sold, the asset cost and related
    accumulated depreciation are eliminated with any remaining gain
    or loss reflected in net earnings.

Goodwill
    and Other Intangible Assets   

Goodwill and other intangible assets are tested for impairment
    annually and more frequently if facts and circumstances indicate
    goodwill carrying values exceed estimated reporting unit fair
    values and if indefinite useful lives are no longer appropriate
    for the Company s trademarks. Based on the impairment tests
    performed, there was no impairment of goodwill or other
    intangible assets in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006. Definite-lived
    intangibles, which mainly consist of contract-based patents and
    copyrights, are amortized over their estimated useful lives. For
    further information on goodwill and other intangible assets, see
    Note 9.

Long-lived
    Assets   

When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values
    of long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation of
    recoverability is performed by comparing the carrying values of
    the assets to projected undiscounted future cash flows in
    addition to other quantitative and qualitative analyses. Upon
    indication that the carrying values of such

48

Table of Contents   

assets may not be recoverable, the Company recognizes an
    impairment loss by a charge to net earnings. The fair value of
    the assets is estimated using the discounted future cash flows
    of the assets. Property, plant and equipment assets are grouped
    at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows
    when assessing impairment. Cash flows for retail assets are
    identified at the individual store level. Long-lived assets to
    be disposed of are reported at the lower of their carrying
    amount, or fair value less estimated costs to sell.

The Company recognized net impairment and disposition losses of
    $325.0 million, $26.0 million and $19.6 million
    in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, due to
    underperforming Company-operated retail stores, as well as
    renovation and remodeling activity in the normal course of
    business. The net losses in fiscal 2008 include
    $201.6 million of asset impairments related to the US and
    Australia store closures and charges incurred for office
    facilities no longer occupied by the Company due to the
    reduction in positions within Starbucks leadership structure and
    non-store organization. See Note 3 for further details.
    Depending on the underlying asset that is impaired, these losses
    may be recorded in any one of the operating expense lines on the
    consolidated statements of earnings: for retail operations,
    these losses are recorded in  Restructuring charges 
    and  Store operating expenses  for specialty
    operations, these losses are recorded in  Other operating
    expenses  and for all other operations, these losses are
    recorded in  Cost of sales including occupancy costs, 
     General and administrative expenses,  or
     Restructuring charges. 

Insurance
    Reserves   

The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance
    mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance entity
    and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for the
    potential liabilities for workers  compensation, healthcare
    benefits, general liability, property insurance, director and
    officers  liability insurance and vehicle liability.
    Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the
    Company are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by
    considering historical claims experience, demographic factors,
    severity factors and other actuarial assumptions.

Revenue
    Recognition   

Consolidated revenues are presented net of intercompany
    eliminations for wholly owned subsidiaries and investees
    controlled by the Company and for licensees accounted for under
    the equity method, based on the Company s percentage
    ownership. Additionally, consolidated revenues are recognized
    net of any discounts, returns, allowances and sales incentives,
    including coupon redemptions and rebates.

Stored
    Value Cards   

Revenues from the Company s stored value cards, such as the
    Starbucks Card, and gift certificates are recognized when
    tendered for payment, or upon redemption. Outstanding customer
    balances are included in  Deferred revenue  on the
    consolidated balance sheets. There are no expiration dates on
    the Company s stored value cards or gift certificates, and
    Starbucks does not charge any service fees that cause a
    decrement to customer balances.

While the Company will continue to honor all stored value cards
    and gift certificates presented for payment, management may
    determine the likelihood of redemption to be remote for certain
    card and certificate balances due to, among other things, long
    periods of inactivity. In these circumstances, to the extent
    management determines there is no requirement for remitting
    balances to government agencies under unclaimed property laws,
    card and certificate balances may be recognized in the
    consolidated statements of earnings in  Interest income and
    other, net.  For the fiscal years ended September 28,
    2008, September 30, 2007 and October 1, 2006, income
    recognized on unredeemed stored value card balances and gift
    certificates was $13.6 million, $12.9 million and
    $4.4 million, respectively.

Retail
    Revenues   

Company-operated retail store revenues are recognized when
    payment is tendered at the point of sale. Starbucks maintains a
    sales return allowance to reduce retail revenues for estimated
    future product returns, including brewing equipment, based on
    historical patterns. Retail store revenues are reported net of
    sales, use or other transaction taxes that are collected from
    customers and remitted to taxing authorities.

49

Table of Contents   

Specialty
    Revenues   

Specialty revenues consist primarily of product sales to
    customers other than through Company-operated retail stores, as
    well as royalties and other fees generated from licensing
    operations. Sales of coffee, tea and related products are
    generally recognized upon shipment to customers, depending on
    contract terms. Shipping charges billed to customers are also
    recognized as revenue, and the related shipping costs are
    included in  Cost of sales including occupancy costs 
    on the consolidated statements of earnings.

Specific to retail store licensing arrangements, initial
    nonrefundable development fees are recognized upon substantial
    performance of services for new market business development
    activities, such as initial business, real estate and store
    development planning, as well as providing operational materials
    and functional training courses for opening new licensed retail
    markets. Additional store licensing fees are recognized when new
    licensed stores are opened. Royalty revenues based upon a
    percentage of reported sales and other continuing fees, such as
    marketing and service fees, are recognized on a monthly basis
    when earned. For certain licensing arrangements, where the
    Company intends to acquire an ownership interest, the initial
    nonrefundable development fees are deferred to  Other
    long-term liabilities  on the consolidated balance sheets
    until acquisition, at which point the fees are reflected as a
    reduction of the Company s investment.

Other arrangements involving multiple elements and deliverables
    as well as upfront fees are individually evaluated for revenue
    recognition. Cash payments received in advance of product or
    service delivery are recorded in  Deferred revenue 
    until earned.

Advertising   

The Company expenses most advertising costs as they are
    incurred, except for certain production costs that are expensed
    the first time the advertising campaign takes place and
    direct-response advertising, which is capitalized and amortized
    over its expected period of future benefits. Direct-response
    advertising consists primarily of customer acquisition expenses
    including applications for customers to apply for the Starbucks
    Card
    Duetto   

    Visa   .

    These capitalized costs are amortized over the life of the
    credit card which is estimated to be three years.

Total advertising expenses, recorded in  Store operating
    expenses,   Other operating expenses  and
     General and administrative expenses  on the
    consolidated statements of earnings, totaled
    $129.0 million, $103.5 million and $107.5 million
    in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of
    September 28, 2008 and September 30, 2007,
    $8.8 million and $12.0 million, respectively, of
    capitalized advertising costs were recorded in  Prepaid
    expenses and other current assets  and  Other
    assets  on the consolidated balance sheets.

Research
    and Development   

Starbucks expenses research and development costs as they are
    incurred. The Company spent approximately $7.2 million,
    $7.0 million and $6.5 million during fiscal 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively, on technical research and development
    activities, in addition to customary product testing and product
    and process improvements in all areas of its business.

Store
    Preopening Expenses   

Costs incurred in connection with the
     start-up  and
    promotion of new store openings are expensed as incurred.

Operating
    Leases   

Starbucks leases retail stores, roasting and distribution
    facilities and office space under operating leases. Most lease
    agreements contain tenant improvement allowances, rent holidays,
    lease premiums, rent escalation clauses
     and/or 
    contingent rent provisions. For purposes of recognizing
    incentives, premiums and minimum rental expenses on a
    straight-line basis over the terms of the leases, the Company
    uses the date of initial possession to begin amortization, which
    is generally when the Company enters the space and begins to
    make improvements in preparation of intended use.

50

Table of Contents   

For tenant improvement allowances and rent holidays, the Company
    records a deferred rent liability in  Accrued occupancy
    costs  and  Other long-term liabilities  on the
    consolidated balance sheets and amortizes the deferred rent over
    the terms of the leases as reductions to rent expense on the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

For premiums paid upfront to enter a lease agreement, the
    Company records a deferred rent asset in  Prepaid expenses
    and other current assets  and  Other assets  on
    the consolidated balance sheets and then amortizes the deferred
    rent over the terms of the leases as additional rent expense on
    the consolidated statements of earnings.

For scheduled rent escalation clauses during the lease terms or
    for rental payments commencing at a date other than the date of
    initial occupancy, the Company records minimum rental expenses
    on a straight-line basis over the terms of the leases on the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

Certain leases provide for contingent rents, which are
    determined as a percentage of gross sales in excess of specified
    levels. The Company records a contingent rent liability in
     Accrued occupancy costs  on the consolidated balance
    sheets and the corresponding rent expense when specified levels
    have been achieved or when management determines that achieving
    the specified levels during the fiscal year is probable.

When ceasing operations in Company-operated stores under
    operating leases, the Company accounts for any lease contract
    termination costs in accordance with SFAS 146,
     Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
    Activities.  Accordingly, in cases where the lease contract
    specifies a termination fee due to the landlord, the Company
    records such expense at the time written notice is given to the
    landlord. In cases where terms, including termination fees, are
    yet to be negotiated with the landlord, the Company will record
    the expense upon signing of an agreement with the landlord.
    Finally, in cases where the landlord does not allow the Company
    to prematurely exit its lease, but allows for subleasing, the
    Company estimates the fair value of any sublease income that can
    be generated from the location and records as an expense the
    excess of remaining lease payments to the landlord over the
    projected sublease income at the cease-use date.

Asset
    Retirement Obligations   

Starbucks accounts for asset retirement obligations under FASB
    Interpretation No. 47 ( FIN 47 ),
     Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
    Obligations   an interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 143,  which it adopted at the end of fiscal 2006.
    FIN 47 requires recognition of a liability for the fair
    value of a required asset retirement obligation
    ( ARO ) when such obligation is incurred. The
    Company s AROs are primarily associated with leasehold
    improvements which, at the end of a lease, the Company is
    contractually obligated to remove in order to comply with the
    lease agreement. At the inception of a lease with such
    conditions, the Company records an ARO liability and a
    corresponding capital asset in an amount equal to the estimated
    fair value of the obligation. The liability is estimated based
    on a number of assumptions requiring management s judgment,
    including store closing costs, cost inflation rates and discount
    rates, and is accreted to its projected future value over time.
    The capitalized asset is depreciated using the convention for
    depreciation of leasehold improvement assets. Upon satisfaction
    of the ARO conditions, any difference between the recorded ARO
    liability and the actual retirement costs incurred is recognized
    as an operating gain or loss in the consolidated statements of
    earnings.

ARO expense was $6.5 million and $4.2 million, in
    fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively, with components included in
     Costs of sales including occupancy costs,  and
     Depreciation and amortization expenses . The initial
    impact of adopting FIN 47 at the end of fiscal year 2006
    was a charge of $27.1 million, with a related tax benefit
    of $9.9 million, for a net expense of $17.2 million,
    with the net amount recorded as a cumulative effect of a change
    in accounting principle on the consolidated statement of
    earnings for fiscal year 2006. As of September 28, 2008 and
    September 30, 2007, the Company s net ARO asset
    included in  Property, plant and equipment, net  was
    $18.5 million and $20.2 million, respectively, while
    the Company s net ARO liability included in
     Other long-term liabilities  was $44.6 million
    and $43.7 million, as of the same respective dates.

Stock-based
    Compensation   

The Company maintains several equity incentive plans under which
    it may grant non-qualified stock options, incentive stock
    options, restricted stock, restricted stock units
    ( RSUs ) or stock appreciation rights to employees,
    non-employee directors and consultants. The Company also has
    employee stock purchase plans ( ESPP ). RSUs

51

Table of Contents   

issued by the Company are equivalent to nonvested shares, as
    defined by SFAS 123(R),  Share-Based Payment 
    ( SFAS 123R ). See Note 14 for additional
    details.

Foreign
    Currency Translation   

The Company s international operations generally use their
    local currency as their functional currency. Assets and
    liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect at the
    balance sheet date. Income and expense accounts are translated
    at the average monthly exchange rates during the year. Resulting
    translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of
     Accumulated other comprehensive income  on the
    consolidated balance sheets.

Income
    Taxes   

The Company computes income taxes using the asset and liability
    method, under which deferred income taxes are provided for the
    temporary differences between the financial statement carrying
    amounts and the tax basis of the Company s assets and
    liabilities. The Company will establish a valuation allowance
    for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that these
    items will either expire before the Company is able to realize
    their benefits, or that future deductibility is uncertain.
    Periodically, the valuation allowance is reviewed and adjusted
    based on management s assessments of realizable deferred
    tax assets.

On October 1, 2007, the first day of the Company s
    first fiscal quarter of 2008, Starbucks adopted FASB
    Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109  ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48
    clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income tax positions
    recognized in the financial statements in accordance with
    SFAS No. 109. Under FIN 48, the Company may
    recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if
    it is more likely than not that the tax position will be
    sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the
    technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in
    the financial statements from such a position should be measured
    based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50%
    likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
    FIN 48 also provides guidance on measurement,
    classification, interest and penalties associated with tax
    positions, and income tax disclosures. The Company recognizes
    interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income
    tax expense. The cumulative effects of applying FIN 48 have
    been recorded as a decrease of $1.7 million and
    $1.6 million, respectively, to the Company s fiscal
    2008 opening balances of retained earnings and additional
    paid-in capital. See Note 15 for additional details.

Earnings
    per Share   

Basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the
    weighted average number of shares and common stock units that
    were outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share
    includes the dilutive effect of common stock equivalents
    consisting of certain shares subject to stock options and RSUs,
    using the treasury stock method.

Common
    Stock Share Repurchases   

The Company may repurchase shares of its common stock under a
    program authorized by its Board of Directors including pursuant
    to a contract, instruction or written plan meeting the
    requirements of
     Rule 10b5-1(c)(1) 
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In accordance with the
    Washington Business Corporation Act, share repurchases are not
    displayed separately as treasury stock on the consolidated
    balance sheets or consolidated statements of shareholders 
    equity. Instead, the par value of repurchased shares is deducted
    from  Common stock  and the remaining excess
    repurchase price over par value is deducted from
     Additional paid-in capital  and from  Retained
    earnings,  once additional paid-in capital is depleted. See
    Note 13 for additional information.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements   

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ),
    which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring
    fair value and expands disclosures about fair value
    measurements. For financial assets and liabilities,
    SFAS 157 will be effective for Starbucks first fiscal
    quarter of 2009. As permitted by
     FSP-FAS 157-2, 
    SFAS 157 is effective for nonfinancial assets and
    liabilities for Starbucks first fiscal quarter of 2010.
    Starbucks believes the adoption of SFAS 157 for its
    financial assets and liabilities will not have a material

52

Table of Contents   

impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements
    and continues to evaluate the potential impact of the adoption
    of SFAS 157 related to its nonfinancial assets and
    liabilities.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,
     The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities  ( SFAS 159 ). SFAS 159
    permits companies to choose to measure many financial
    instruments and certain other items at fair value. SFAS 159
    will be effective for Starbucks first fiscal quarter of 2009.
    Starbucks believes the adoption of SFAS 159 will not have a
    material impact on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141
    (revised 2007),  Business Combinations 
    ( SFAS 141R ), which replaces SFAS 141.
    SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how
    an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements
    the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any
    resulting goodwill, and any noncontrolling interest in the
    acquiree. SFAS 141R also provides for disclosures to enable
    users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and
    financial effects of the business combination. SFAS 141R
    will be effective for Starbucks first fiscal quarter of 2010 and
    must be applied prospectively to business combinations completed
    on or after that date.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,
     Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements   an amendment of Accounting Research
    Bulletin No. 51  ( SFAS 160 ),
    which establishes accounting and reporting standards for
    noncontrolling interests ( minority interests ) in
    subsidiaries. SFAS 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling
    interest in a subsidiary should be accounted for as a component
    of equity separate from the parent s equity. SFAS 160
    will be effective for Starbucks first fiscal quarter of 2010 and
    must be applied prospectively, except for the presentation and
    disclosure requirements, which will apply retrospectively. The
    Company is currently evaluating the potential impact that
    adoption of SFAS 160 may have on its consolidated financial
    statements.

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,
     Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities   an amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 133  ( SFAS 161 ), which requires
    enhanced disclosures about an entity s derivative and
    hedging activities. SFAS 161 will be effective for
    Starbucks second fiscal quarter of 2009.

Note 2:    

Business
    Acquisitions  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company acquired
    substantially all of the assets, including development and
    operating rights, of Coffee Vision, Inc. ( CVI ) and
    Coffee Vision Atlantic, Inc. ( CVAI ), its licensee in
    Quebec and Atlantic Canada. In addition, Starbucks acquired full
    development and operation rights for the retail stores in these
    provinces.

In the third quarter of fiscal 2008, Starbucks purchased 100%
    equity ownership in Coffee Equipment Company ( CEC ),
    a Seattle-based manufacturer and seller of a single cup,
    commercial grade coffee brewer called the
    Clover  tm  .

In the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company purchased the
    remaining 10% equity ownership in its operations in Beijing,
    China. Starbucks has applied the consolidation method of
    accounting since the first quarter of fiscal 2007, when it
    acquired 90% of these previously-licensed operations.

Note 3:    

Restructuring
    Charges  

In January of fiscal 2008, Starbucks began a transformation plan
    designed to address the deterioration of its US retail business,
    reduce its global infrastructure costs and position the
    Company s business for long-term profitable growth. Since
    the announcement, a number of actions have been initiated,
    resulting in the recognition of certain exit, impairment and
    severance costs. The total amount of these restructuring costs
    recognized in fiscal 2008 was $266.9 million. Certain
    additional costs from these actions are expected to be
    recognized in fiscal 2009, nearly all related to US store
    closures.

US Store Closures    The most significant
    action was the commitment to close approximately 600
    underperforming Company-operated stores in the US market and
    reduce the number of future store openings. The decision was a
    result of a rigorous evaluation of the Company-operated store
    portfolio, and the Company closed the first 205 of these stores
    during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. As a result of the
    announced store closures and actions taken to

53

Table of Contents   

date, the Company recognized $206.3 million of
    restructuring charges in fiscal 2008, comprised of
    $169.6 million of store asset impairments, lease exit costs
    of $33.6 million, and severance totaling $3.1 million.
    The Company expects to complete the remainder of the closures by
    the end of fiscal 2009, and recognize the total remaining lease
    exit costs and related severance during that time.

Australia Store Closures    To address the
    difficulties specific to its Australia market, Starbucks closed
    61 Company-operated stores in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.
    As a result of these store closures, the Company recognized
    $16.9 million of restructuring charges in fiscal 2008,
    comprised of $1.5 million of store asset impairments, lease
    exit costs of $11.6 million, and severance totaling
    $3.8 million. Starbucks continues to have wholly owned
    operations in Australia but with a more focused presence with 23
    Company-operated stores as of September 28, 2008.

Reduction in Force within the Non-store
    Organization    To address its global cost
    structure, on July 29, 2008, Starbucks announced the
    reduction of approximately 1,000 open and filled positions
    within its leadership structure and its non-store organization.
    As a result, the Company recognized, in fiscal 2008,
    $10.7 million in employee termination benefits expense as
    well as $33.0 million related to consolidation of support
    facilities, primarily at the corporate headquarters in Seattle.

Restructuring charges by reportable segment were as follows
    ( in millions ):

Restructuring charges by type and a reconciliation of the
    associated accrued liability were as follows ( in
    millions ):

(1)  

The difference between expenses recognized and costs incurred in
    fiscal 2008 represents deferred termination fees related to
    stores not yet closed, for which termination agreements had been
    finalized as of the end of the fiscal year. These costs are
    being amortized to the date of closure. 

(2)  

Non-cash charges and credits for  Lease Exit and Other
    Related Costs  represent deferred rent balances recognized
    as expense credits at the
     cease-use 
    date. 

54

Table of Contents   

Note 4:    

Short-term
    and Long-term Investments  

The Company s short-term and long-term investments
    consisted of the following  (in millions) :

For available-for-sale securities, proceeds from sales were
    $75.9 million, $47.5 million and $431.2 million,
    in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Gross
    realized gains from sales were $3.8 million in fiscal year
    2006. Gross realized losses from sales were $0.1 million in
    fiscal year 2006. For fiscal years 2008 and 2007, there were no
    realized losses and immaterial amounts of realized gains from
    sales.

As of September 28, 2008, the Company s long-term
    available-for-sale securities of $71.4 million included
    $59.8 million invested in auction rate securities
    ( ARS ). As of September 30, 2007, the Company
    held $75.6 million of ARS, which were all classified as
    short-term available-for-sale securities. ARS have long-dated
    maturities but provide liquidity through a Dutch auction process
    that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined
    calendar intervals. Due to the auction failures that began in
    mid-February 2008, these securities became illiquid and were
    classified as long-term investments. The investment principal
    associated with the failed auctions will not be accessible until:

successful auctions resume;

an active secondary market for these securities develops;

the issuers replace these securities with another form of
    financing; or

55

Table of Contents   

final payments are made according to the contractual maturities
    of the debt issues which range from 22 to 37 years.

The Company intends to hold the ARS until it can recover the
    full principal amount and has the ability to do so based on
    other sources of liquidity. The Company expects such recoveries
    to occur prior to the contractual maturities. In July 2008, one
    of the Company s ARS was called at its par value of
    $4.7 million.

The Company recorded $6.0 million of unrealized losses on
    ARS in fiscal 2008, determined to be temporary, which is
    included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a
    reduction in shareholders  equity. The Company s ARS
    are collateralized by portfolios of student loans, substantially
    all of which are guaranteed by the United States Department of
    Education. As of September 28, 2008, approximately
    $4.4 million in ARS was rated AA/Aa3 by
    Standard   Poor s and Moody s, respectively.
    All of the remaining securities were rated triple-A by two or
    more of the following major rating agencies: Moody s,
    Standard   Poor s and Fitch Ratings.

The following table presents the length of time
    available-for-sale securities were in continuous unrealized loss
    positions but were not deemed to be other-than-temporarily
    impaired  (in millions) :

Consecutive
    Monthly Unrealized Losses   

Gross unrealized holding losses on the state and local
    obligations consist of unrealized losses on the Company s
    twelve ARS. Gross unrealized holding losses on the corporate
    debt pertain to five fixed income securities and were primarily
    caused by interest rate increases subsequent to the date of
    purchase. The contractual terms of the non-ARS fixed income
    securities do not permit the issuer to settle at a price less
    than the par value of the investment, which is the equivalent of
    the amount due at maturity. As Starbucks has the ability and
    intent to hold its available-for-sale securities until a
    recovery of fair value, which may be at maturity, the Company
    does not consider these securities to be other-than-temporarily
    impaired. Long-term corporate debt securities generally mature
    in less than five years.

There were no realized losses recorded for other than temporary
    impairments during fiscal years 2008, 2007 or 2006.

Trading securities are comprised mainly of marketable equity
    mutual funds that approximate a portion of the Company s
    liability under the Management Deferred Compensation Plan
    ( MDCP ), a defined contribution plan. The
    corresponding deferred compensation liability of
    $68.0 million in fiscal 2008 and $86.4 million in
    fiscal 2007 is included in  Accrued compensation and
    related costs  on the consolidated balance sheets. In
    fiscal years 2008 and

56

Table of Contents   

2007, the changes in net unrealized holding gains/losses in the
    trading portfolio included in earnings were a net loss of
    $14.5 million and a net gain of $7.5 million,
    respectively.

Note 5:    

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

Cash
    Flow Hedges   

The Company and certain subsidiaries enter into cash flow
    derivative instruments to hedge portions of anticipated revenue
    streams and inventory purchases in currencies other than the
    entity s functional currency. Outstanding forward
    contracts, which comprise the majority of the Company s
    derivative instruments, hedge monthly forecasted revenue
    transactions denominated in Japanese yen and Canadian dollars,
    as well as forecasted inventory purchases denominated primarily
    in US dollars for foreign operations. From time to time, the
    Company also uses futures contracts to hedge the variable price
    component for a small portion of its price-to-be-fixed green
    coffee purchase contracts.

In addition, during fiscal 2007 the Company entered into,
    dedesignated and settled forward interest rate contracts to
    hedge movements in interest rates prior to issuance its
    $550 million of 6.25% Senior Notes. The resulting net
    losses from these contracts will continue to be reclassified to
     Interest expense  on the consolidated statements of
    earnings over the life of the Senior Notes due in 2017. See
    Note 10 for additional information on Senior Notes.

Including the interest rate contracts, the Company had
    accumulated net derivative losses of $9.2 million, net of
    taxes, in other comprehensive income as of September 28,
    2008, related to cash flow hedges. Of this amount,
    $3.6 million of net derivative losses pertain to hedging
    instruments that will be dedesignated within 12 months and
    will also continue to experience fair value changes before
    affecting earnings. Ineffectiveness from hedges that were
    discontinued in fiscal years 2008 and 2007 was insignificant. No
    cash flow hedges were discontinued and no significant
    ineffectiveness was recognized in fiscal year 2006. Outstanding
    contracts will expire within 48 months.

Net
    Investment Hedges   

Net investment derivative instruments are used to hedge the
    Company s equity method investment in Starbucks Coffee
    Japan, Ltd. ( Starbucks Japan ) as well as the
    Company s net investments in its Canada, UK and China
    subsidiaries, to minimize foreign currency exposure. The Company
    had accumulated net derivative losses of $13.0 million, net
    of taxes, in other comprehensive income as of September 28,
    2008, related to net investment derivative hedges. Outstanding
    contracts expire within 29 months.

The following table presents the net gains and losses
    reclassified from other comprehensive income into the
    consolidated statements of earnings during the fiscal years
    indicated for cash flow and net investment hedges ( in
    millions ):

Other
    Derivatives   

The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts that
    are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting
    purposes to mitigate the translation risk of certain balance
    sheet items. For the fiscal years 2008 and 2007, these forward
    contracts resulted in net losses of $0.1 million and
    $9.7 million. These losses were largely offset

57

Table of Contents   

by the financial impact of translating foreign currency
    denominated payables and receivables, which are also recognized
    in  Interest income and other, net.  No similar
    contracts were held in fiscal 2006.

Note 6:    

Inventories  

Inventories consisted of the following  (in millions) :

Other merchandise held for sale includes, among other items,
    brewing equipment, serveware and tea.

As of September 28, 2008, the Company had committed to
    purchasing green coffee totaling $336 million under
    fixed-price contracts and an estimated $246 million under
    price-to-be-fixed contracts. The Company believes, based on
    relationships established with its suppliers in the past, the
    risk of non-delivery on such purchase commitments is remote.

Note 7:    

Equity
    and Cost Investments  

The Company s equity and cost investments consisted of the
    following  (in millions) :

Equity
    Method   

The Company s equity investees and ownership interests by
    reportable operating segment are as follows:

58

Table of Contents   

StarCon, LLC is a joint venture formed in March 2007 with
    Concord Music Group, Inc. that is engaged in the recorded music
    business. The International entities operate licensed Starbucks
    retail stores. The Company also has licensed the rights to
    produce and distribute Starbucks branded products to two
    partnerships in which the Company holds 50% equity interests:
    The North American Coffee Partnership with the Pepsi-Cola
    Company develops and distributes bottled
    Frappuccino   

    beverages and Starbucks
    DoubleShot   

    espresso drinks, and Starbucks Ice Cream Partnership with
    Dreyer s Grand Ice Cream, Inc. develops and distributes
    superpremium ice creams.

Prior to fiscal 2005, Starbucks acquired equity interest in its
    licensed operations of Malaysia, Austria, Shanghai, Spain,
    Switzerland and Taiwan. The carrying amount of these investments
    was $24.3 million more than the underlying equity in net
    assets due to acquired goodwill, which is evaluated for
    impairment annually. No impairment was recorded during fiscal
    years 2008, 2007 or 2006.

The Company s share of income and losses is included in
     Income from equity investees  on the consolidated
    statements of earnings. Also included is the Company s
    proportionate share of gross margin resulting from coffee and
    other product sales to, and royalty and license fee revenues
    generated from, equity investees. Revenues generated from these
    related parties, net of eliminations, were $128.1 million,
    $107.9 million and $94.2 million in fiscal years 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Related costs of sales, net of
    eliminations, were $66.2 million, $57.1 million and
    $47.5 million in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. As of September 28, 2008 and
    September 30, 2007, there were $40.6 million and
    $30.6 million of accounts receivable, respectively, on the
    consolidated balance sheets from equity investees primarily
    related to product sales and store license fees.

As of September 28, 2008, the aggregate market value of the
    Company s investment in Starbucks Japan was approximately
    $214 million, based on its available quoted market price.

Summarized combined financial information of the Company s
    equity method investees, that represent 100% of the
    investees  financial information, was as follows ( in
    millions ):

Cost
    Method   

The Company has equity interests in entities to develop and
    operate Starbucks licensed retail stores in several global
    markets, including Mexico, Hong Kong and Greece. Additionally,
    Starbucks has investments in privately held equity securities
    unrelated to Starbucks licensed retail stores of
    $2.8 million at September 28, 2008 and
    September 30, 2007. As of September 28, 2008 and
    September 30, 2007, management determined that the
    estimated fair values of each cost method investment exceeded
    the related carrying values. There were no realized losses
    recorded for other-than-temporary impairment of the
    Company s cost method investments during fiscal years 2008,
    2007 or 2006.

Starbucks has the ability to acquire additional interests in
    some of these cost method investees at certain intervals.
    Depending on the Company s total percentage of ownership
    interest and its ability to exercise significant influence over
    financial and operating policies, additional investments may
    require the retroactive application of the equity method of
    accounting.

59

Table of Contents   

Note 8:    

Property,
    Plant and Equipment  

Property, plant and equipment consisted of the following  (in
    millions) :

Note 9:    

Other
    Intangible Assets and Goodwill  

Other intangible assets consisted of the following  (in
    millions) :

The increase in indefinite-lived intangibles was primarily due
    to the purchase of distribution rights for Seattle Best
    Coffee   

    products in Canada as well as the CEC acquisition (see
    Note 2). The increase in definite-lived intangibles was
    primarily due to patents acquired in the CEC acquisition.
    Amortization expense for definite-lived intangibles was
    $1.5 million, $1.0 million and $1.2 million
    during fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The following table summarizes, as of September 28, 2008,
    the estimated amortization expense for each of the next five
    fiscal years and thereafter  (in millions) :

60

Table of Contents   

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable
    operating segment for the fiscal year ended September 28,
    2008 were as follows  (in millions) :

United
    States   

The $11.8 million increase in goodwill was due to the
    acquisition of CEC.

International   

The increase in goodwill was due to the acquisition of CVI and
    CVAI, as well as the remaining equity interest in Beijing during
    the fiscal year, which increased goodwill by $33.0 million
    and $6.3 million, respectively (see Note 2). The
    decrease related to  Other  was due to foreign
    currency fluctuations.

The Company s debt consisted of the following  (in
    millions) :

Revolving
    Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program   

The Company has a $1 billion unsecured credit facility (the
     facility ) with various banks, of which
    $100 million may be used for issuances of letters of
    credit. The facility is available for working capital, capital
    expenditures and other corporate purposes, which may include
    acquisitions and share repurchases. The facility is currently
    set to terminate in August 2011. The interest rate for
    borrowings under the facility as of September 28, 2008
    ranged from 0.11% to 0.27% over LIBOR or an alternate base rate,
    which is the greater of the bank prime rate or the Federal Funds
    Rate plus 0.50%. On October 31, 2008, the Company entered
    into an amendment to its facility that, amongst other changes,
    increased the interest rate range for borrowings under the
    facility to 0.21% to 0.67% over LIBOR or the greater of the bank
    prime rate or the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50%. The specific
    spread over LIBOR will continue to depend upon the
    Company s long-term credit ratings assigned by Moody s
    and Standard   Poor s rating agencies and the
    Company s coverage ratio. The facility contains provisions
    requiring the Company to maintain compliance with certain
    covenants, including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio which
    measures the Company s ability to cover financing expenses.

The Company established a commercial paper program (the
     program ) in March 2007. Under the program the
    Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes, up to a
    maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of
    $1 billion, with individual maturities that may vary, but
    not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The program is
    backstopped by the Company s revolving credit facility, and
    the combined borrowing limit is $1 billion

61

Table of Contents   

for the program and the facility. The Company may issue
    commercial paper from time to time, and the proceeds of the
    commercial paper financing will be used for working capital
    needs, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes, which
    may include acquisitions and share repurchases.

As of September 28, 2008, the Company also had
    $15.9 million in letters of credit outstanding under the
    revolving credit facility, leaving a total of
    $270.9 million in remaining borrowing capacity under the
    combined revolving credit facility and commercial paper program.
    As of September 30, 2007, letters of credit totaling
    $12.9 million were outstanding.

Long-term
    Debt   

In August 2007, the Company issued $550 million of
    6.25% Senior Notes (the  notes ) due in August
    2017, in an underwritten registered public offering. Interest is
    payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year.
    The notes require the Company to maintain compliance with
    certain covenants, which limit future liens and sale and
    leaseback transactions on certain material properties. The notes
    were priced at a discount, resulting in proceeds to the Company
    of $549 million, before expenses.

Other long term debt, totaling $0.4 million as of
    September 28, 2008, matures in fiscal 2011.

Scheduled principal payments on long-term debt are as follows
     (in millions) :

Interest
    Expense   

Interest expense, net of interest capitalized, was
    $53.4 million, $38.2 million and $8.4 million in
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In fiscal 2008, 2007
    and 2006, $7.2 million, $3.9 million and
    $2.7 million, respectively, of interest was capitalized for
    new store and other asset construction projects, and included in
     Property, plant and equipment, net,  on the
    consolidated balance sheets.

Note 11:    

Other
    Long-term Liabilities  

The Company s other long-term liabilities consisted of the
    following  (in millions) :

Deferred rent liabilities represent amounts for tenant
    improvement allowances, rent escalation clauses and rent
    holidays related to certain operating leases. The Company
    amortizes deferred rent over the terms of the leases as
    reductions to rent expense on the consolidated statements of
    earnings. Unrecognized tax benefits represent the estimated
    long-term portion of the Company s gross unrecognized tax
    benefits including interest under FIN 48. See Notes 1
    and 15 for additional information. Asset retirement obligations
    represent the estimated fair value of the

62

Table of Contents   

Company s future costs of removing leasehold improvements
    at the termination of leases for certain stores and
    administrative facilities. Minority interest represents the
    collective ownership interests of minority shareholders for
    operations accounted for under the consolidation method, in
    which Starbucks owns less than 100% of the equity interest. The
    other remaining long-term liabilities generally include
    obligations to be settled or paid for one year beyond each
    period presented, for items such as hedging instruments and the
    long-term portion of capital lease obligations.

Rental expense under operating lease agreements was as follows
     (in millions) :

Minimum future rental payments under noncancelable operating
    leases as of September 28, 2008, were as follows
     (in millions) :

The Company has subleases related to certain of its operating
    leases. During fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company
    recognized sublease income of $3.5 million,
    $3.6 million and $5.7 million, respectively.

The Company had capital lease obligations of $6.7 million
    and $3.1 million as of September 28, 2008 and
    September 30, 2007, respectively. Capital lease obligations
    expire at various dates, with the latest maturity in 2018. The
    current portion of the total obligation is included in
     Other accrued expenses  and the remaining long-term
    portion is included in  Other long-term liabilities 
    on the consolidated balance sheets. Assets held under capital
    leases are included in  Property, plant and equipment,
    net,  on the consolidated balance sheets.

The Company had $91.1 million and $73.7 million in
    prepaid rent included in  Prepaid expenses and other
    current assets  on the consolidated balance sheets as of
    September 28, 2008 and September 30, 2007,
    respectively.

Note 13:  Shareholders 
    Equity  

In addition to 1.2 billion shares of authorized common
    stock with $0.001 par value per share, the Company has
    authorized 7.5 million shares of preferred stock, none of
    which was outstanding at September 28, 2008.

Share repurchase activity was as follows  (in millions, except
    for average price data) :

The difference between the accrual-based and cash-based cost of
    acquired shares represents the effect of the net change in
    unsettled trades from the prior fiscal year end. Share
    repurchases were funded through cash, cash

63

Table of Contents   

equivalents, available-for-sale securities, borrowings under the
    commercial paper program and revolving credit facility and
    proceeds from sale of the notes, and were part of the
    Company s active capital management program. As of
    September 28, 2008, approximately 6.3 million shares
    remained available for repurchase, under current authorizations.

Comprehensive
    Income   

Comprehensive income includes all changes in equity during the
    period, except those resulting from transactions with
    shareholders and subsidiaries of the Company. It has two
    components: net earnings and other comprehensive income.
    Accumulated other comprehensive income reported on the
    Company s consolidated balance sheets consists of foreign
    currency translation adjustments and the unrealized gains and
    losses, net of applicable taxes, on available-for-sale
    securities and on derivative instruments designated and
    qualifying as cash flow and net investment hedges.

Comprehensive income, net of related tax effects, was as follows
     (in millions) :

The unfavorable translation adjustment change during fiscal 2008
    of $7.0 million was primarily due to the strengthening of
    the US dollar against several currencies including the
    Australian dollar, Korean won and Canadian dollar. The favorable
    translation adjustment change during fiscal 2007 of
    $37.7 million was primarily due to the weakening of the US
    dollar against several currencies including the euro, Canadian
    dollar and British pound sterling. The favorable translation
    adjustment change during fiscal 2006 of $14.6 million was
    primarily due to the weakening of the US dollar against several
    currencies including British pound sterling, the euro and
    Canadian dollar.

64

Table of Contents   

The components of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of
    tax, were as follows  (in millions) :

As of September 28, 2008, the translation adjustment of
    $74.7 million was net of tax provisions of
    $7.0 million. As of September 30, 2007, the
    translation adjustment of $81.7 million was net of tax
    provisions of $7.3 million.

Note 14:    

Employee
    Stock and Benefit Plans  

The Company maintains several equity incentive plans under which
    it may grant non-qualified stock options, incentive stock
    options, restricted stock, RSUs, or stock appreciation rights to
    employees, non-employee directors and consultants. The Company
    issues new shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options
    and the vesting of RSUs. As of September 28, 2008, there
    were 51.1 million shares of common stock available for
    issuance pursuant to future equity-based compensation awards.

The Company also has employee stock purchase plans
    ( ESPP ).

The following represents total stock based compensation and ESPP
    expense recognized in the consolidated financial statements
    ( in millions ):

The decrease in stock option expense in fiscal 2008 was due to a
    higher level of forfeitures.

Stock
    Option Plans   

Stock options to purchase the Company s common stock are
    granted at the fair market value of the stock on the date of
    grant. The majority of options become exercisable in four equal
    installments beginning a year from the date of grant and
    generally expire 10 years from the date of grant. Certain
    options granted prior to October 1, 2006 become exercisable
    in three equal installments beginning a year from the date of
    grant. Options granted to non-employee directors generally vest
    over one to three years. Nearly all outstanding stock options
    are non-qualified stock options.

The fair value of each stock option granted is estimated on the
    grant date using the Black-Scholes-Merton ( BSM )
    option valuation model. The assumptions used to calculate the
    fair value of options granted are evaluated and revised, as
    necessary, to reflect market conditions and the Company s
    experience. Options granted are valued using the multiple option
    valuation approach, and the resulting expense is recognized
    using the graded, or accelerated, attribution method, consistent
    with the multiple option valuation approach. Compensation
    expense is recognized only for those options expected to vest,
    with forfeitures estimated at the date of grant based on the
    Company s historical experience and future expectations.
    Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R on October 3, 2005,
    the effect of forfeitures on the disclosed pro forma expense
    amounts was recognized as the forfeitures occurred.

65

Table of Contents   

The fair value of stock option awards and ESPP shares was
    estimated at the grant date with the following weighted average
    assumptions for the fiscal years ended September 28, 2008,
    September 30, 2007 and October 1, 2006:

The expected term of the options represents the estimated period
    of time until exercise and is based on historical experience of
    similar awards, giving consideration to the contractual terms,
    vesting schedules and expectations of future employee behavior.
    Expected stock price volatility is based on a combination of
    historical volatility of the Company s stock and the
    one-year implied volatility of its traded options, for the
    related vesting periods. The risk-free interest rate is based on
    the implied yield available on US Treasury zero-coupon issues
    with an equivalent remaining term. The Company has not paid
    dividends in the past and does not currently anticipate paying
    any dividends in the near future.

The BSM option valuation model was developed for use in
    estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no
    vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. The
    Company s employee stock options have characteristics
    significantly different from those of traded options, and
    changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially
    affect the fair value estimate. Because Starbucks stock options
    do not trade on a secondary exchange, employees do not derive a
    benefit from holding stock options unless there is an increase,
    above the grant price, in the market price of the Company s
    stock. Such an increase in stock price would benefit all
    shareholders commensurately.

66

Table of Contents   

The following summarizes all stock option transactions from
    October 2, 2005, through September 28, 2008 ( in
    millions, except per share and contractual life amounts) :

The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above is the amount
    by which the market value of the underlying stock exceeded the
    exercise price of outstanding options, is before applicable
    income taxes and represents the amount optionees would have
    realized if all in-the-money options had been exercised on the
    last business day of the period indicated. The closing per share
    market value of the Company s stock on September 26,
    2008 was $14.96.

As of September 28, 2008, total unrecognized stock-based
    compensation expense related to nonvested stock options was
    approximately $64.6 million, before income taxes, and is
    expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of
    approximately 2.7 years. The total intrinsic value of stock
    options exercised was $50 million, $274 million and
    $327 million during the fiscal years ended
    September 28, 2008, September 30, 2007 and
    October 1, 2006, respectively. The total fair value of
    options vested was $99 million, $28 million and
    $95 million during fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

RSUs   

RSUs are awarded to eligible employees and entitle the grantee
    to receive shares of common stock at the end of a vesting
    period, subject to the employee s continuing employment.
    The fair value of these service-based RSUs are based on the fair
    value of Starbucks common stock on the award date. The following
    table summarizes all RSU

67

Table of Contents   

transactions from October 1, 2006 through
    September 28, 2008 ( in millions, except per share and
    contractual life amounts) :

As of September 28, 2008, total unrecognized stock-based
    compensation expense related to nonvested RSUs was approximately
    $29.4 million, before income taxes, which is expected to be
    recognized over a weighted average period of approximately
    3.5 years.

ESPP   

The Company s ESPP allows eligible employees to contribute
    up to 10% of their base earnings toward the quarterly purchase
    of the Company s common stock, subject to an annual maximum
    dollar amount. The employees  purchase price is 85% of the
    lesser of the fair market value of the stock on the first
    business day or the last business day of the quarterly offering
    period. The following summarizes transactions under this ESPP
    from fiscal year 2006 through 2008 ( shares in millions): 

Starbucks has an additional employee stock purchase plan in the
    United Kingdom, which allows eligible UK employees to purchase
    shares of common stock through payroll deductions during
    six-month offering periods at the lesser of the fair market
    value of the stock at the beginning or at the end of the
    offering period. The Company awards one matching share for each
    six shares purchased under the plan. The total number of shares
    issuable under the plan is 1.4 million. As of
    September 28, 2008, 1.3 million shares were available
    for future issuance.

Deferred
    Stock Plan   

Starbucks has a deferred stock plan for certain key employees
    that enables participants in the plan to defer receipt of
    ownership of common shares from the exercise of nonqualified
    stock options. The minimum deferral period is five years. As of
    September 28, 2008, receipt of 3.4 million shares was
    deferred under the terms of this plan. The rights to receive
    these shares, represented by common stock units, are included in
    the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share as
    common stock equivalents. No new initial deferrals are permitted
    under this plan; the plan permits re-deferrals of previously
    deferred shares.

68

Table of Contents   

Defined
    Contribution Plans   

Starbucks maintains voluntary defined contribution plans, both
    qualified and non-qualified, covering eligible employees as
    defined in the plan documents. Participating employees may elect
    to defer and contribute a portion of their eligible compensation
    to the plans up to limits stated in the plan documents, not to
    exceed the dollar amounts set by applicable laws. For employees
    in the United States, the Company matched 25% to 150% of each
    employee s eligible contribution based on years of service,
    up to a maximum of the first 4% of each employee s
    compensation. The Company s matching contributions to all
    US and non-US plans were approximately $25.3 million,
    $20.1 million and $19.3 million in fiscal years 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.

The provision for income taxes consisted of the following  (in
    millions) :

A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate with
    the Company s effective income tax rate was as follows:

US income and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided
    on approximately $409 million of cumulative undistributed
    earnings of foreign subsidiaries and equity investees. The
    Company intends to reinvest these earnings for the foreseeable
    future. If these amounts were distributed to the United States,
    in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be
    subject to additional US income taxes. Determination of the
    amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liabilities on these
    earnings is not practicable because such liability, if any, is
    dependent on circumstances existing if and when remittance
    occurs.

69

Table of Contents   

The tax effect of temporary differences and carryforwards that
    comprise significant portions of deferred tax assets and
    liabilities was as follows  (in millions): 

The Company will establish a valuation allowance if it is more
    likely than not that these items will either expire before the
    Company is able to realize their benefits, or that future
    deductibility is uncertain. Periodically, the valuation
    allowance is reviewed and adjusted based on management s
    assessments of realizable deferred tax assets. The valuation
    allowance as of September 28, 2008 and September 30,
    2007 was related to net operating losses of consolidated foreign
    subsidiaries. The net change in the total valuation allowance
    for the years ended September 28, 2008, and
    September 30, 2007, was an increase of $6.3 million
    and $4.9 million, respectively.

As of September 28, 2008, the Company has foreign tax
    credit carryforwards of $26.2 million with expiration dates
    between fiscal years 2013 and 2018. As of the end of fiscal
    2008, the Company also has capital loss carryforwards of
    $0.5 million, expiring in fiscal year 2010.

Taxes currently payable of $14.8 million and
    $38.5 million are included in  Accrued taxes  on
    the consolidated balance sheets as of September 28, 2008
    and September 30, 2007, respectively.

FIN 48   

As described in Note 1, on October 1, 2007, the first
    day of the Company s fiscal 2008, Starbucks adopted
    FIN 48. The cumulative effects of applying FIN 48 have
    been recorded as a decrease of $1.7 million and
    $1.6 million, respectively, to the Company s fiscal
    2008 opening balances of retained earnings and additional
    paid-in capital. The Company also recorded an increase of
    $28.5 million to current income tax assets, an increase of
    $12.2 million to
     long-term 
    income tax assets, a decrease of $24.6 million to current
    tax liabilities and an increase of $68.6 million to
     long-term 
    tax liabilities.

70

Table of Contents   

As of September 28, 2008, the Company had
    $52.6 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits of which
    $21.4 million, if recognized, would affect the effective
    tax rate. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related
    to income tax matters in income tax expense. During fiscal 2008,
    interest and penalties included in income tax expense was
    $2.5 million. As of September 28, 2008 and
    October 1, 2007, the Company had accrued interest and
    penalties of $9.1 million and $11.4 million,
    respectively, before benefit of federal tax deduction, recorded
    on its consolidated balance sheets.

The following table summarizes the activity related to the
    Company s unrecognized tax benefits from October 1,
    2007 to September 28, 2008 ( in millions ):

Starbucks is currently under routine audit by various state
    taxing jurisdictions for fiscal years 2003 through 2006. During
    fiscal year 2008, the Company reached a settlement with the IRS
    on its 2005 federal income tax examination. As a result,
    unrecognized tax benefits were reduced by $11.1 million and
    the tax provision was reduced by $6.5 million. The Company
    reversed a portion of long-term taxes payable, which resulted in
    recording a tax benefit in fiscal year 2008. The Company is no
    longer subject to US federal or state examination for years
    before fiscal year 2005, with the exception of nine states. As a
    result of federal and certain state statute closures related to
    fiscal year 2004, the Company reversed the long-term income
    taxes payable, which resulted in recording an additional tax
    benefit in the third quarter of fiscal year 2008. The Company is
    subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the United
    States, none of which are individually material to the
    consolidated financial statements.

There is a reasonable possibility that the unrecognized tax
    benefits will change within the next 12 months, but the
    Company does not expect this change to be material to the
    consolidated financial statements.

Note 16:    

Earnings
    per Share  

The following table presents the calculation of net earnings per
    common share ( EPS )   basic and diluted
    ( in millions, except EPS ):

Potential dilutive shares consist of the incremental common
    shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options
    (both vested and non-vested) and unvested RSUs, using the
    treasury stock method. Potential dilutive shares are excluded
    from the computation of earnings per share if their effect is
    antidilutive. The number of antidilutive

71

Table of Contents   

options and RSUs totaled 40.4 million, 10.4 million
    and 10.3 million in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Note 17:    

Commitments
    and Contingencies  

Guarantees   

The Company has unconditionally guaranteed the repayment of
    certain Japanese yen-denominated bank loans and related interest
    and fees of an unconsolidated equity investee, Starbucks Japan.
    The guarantees continue until the loans, including accrued
    interest and fees, have been paid in full. The maximum amount is
    limited to the sum of unpaid principal and interest amounts, as
    well as other related expenses. These amounts will vary based on
    fluctuations in the yen foreign exchange rate.

Starbucks has commitments under which it unconditionally
    guarantees its proportionate share of certain borrowings of
    unconsolidated equity investees. The Company s maximum
    exposure under these commitments disclosed in the table below
    excludes interest and other related costs. The fair value of
    these guarantees are included in  Equity and cost
    investments  and  Other long-term liabilities  on
    the consolidated balance sheets.

The following table presents information on unconditional
    guarantees as of September 28, 2008 ( in millions ):

(1)  

Since there has been no modification of these loan guarantees
    subsequent to the Company s adoption of FASB Interpretation
    No. 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure
    Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
    Indebtedness of Others,  Starbucks has applied the
    disclosure provisions only and has not recorded the guarantees
    on its consolidated balance sheets. 

Legal
    Proceedings   

On October 8, 2004, a former hourly employee of the Company
    filed a lawsuit in San Diego County Superior Court entitled
     Jou Chau v. Starbucks Coffee Company . The lawsuit
    alleges that the Company violated the California Labor Code by
    allowing shift supervisors to receive tips. More specifically,
    the lawsuit alleges that since shift supervisors direct the work
    of baristas, they qualify as  agents  of the Company
    and are therefore excluded from receiving tips under California
    Labor Code Section 351, which prohibits employers and their
    agents from collecting or receiving tips left by patrons for
    other employees. The lawsuit further alleges that because the
    tipping practices violate the Labor Code, they also are unfair
    practices under the California Unfair Competition Law. In
    addition to recovery of an unspecified amount of tips
    distributed to shift supervisors, the lawsuit seeks penalties
    under California Labor Code Section 203 for willful failure
    to pay wages due. Plaintiff also seeks attorneys  fees and
    costs. On February 28, 2008, the court ruled against the
    Company in the liability phase of the trial and on
    March 20, 2008 the court ordered the Company to pay
    approximately $87 million in restitution, plus interest. On
    July 31, 2008, the Company filed a notice of appeal with
    the California Court of Appeals. Starbucks believes that while
    the adverse ruling by the trial judge in this case makes the
    possibility of loss somewhat more likely, the Company is only at
    the very beginning of the appellate process. Starbucks believes
    that the likelihood that the Company will ultimately incur a
    loss in connection with this litigation is reasonably possible
    rather than probable. The Company has not accrued any loss
    related to this litigation.

On June 30, 2005, three individuals, Erik Lords, Hon Yeung,
    and Donald Brown filed a lawsuit in Orange County Superior
    Court, California. The lawsuit alleges that the Company violated
    the California Labor Code section 432.8 by asking job
    applicants to disclose at the time of application convictions
    for marijuana related offenses more than two years old.
    Plaintiffs also seek attorneys  fees and costs. On
    November 1, 2007, the Court issued an order certifying the
    case as a class action, with the plaintiffs representing a class
    of all persons who have applied for employment with Starbucks
    Coffee Company in California since June 23, 2004 who cannot
    claim damages in excess of $200. On November 15, 2007, the
    court denied the Company s motion for summary judgment.
    Starbucks

72

Table of Contents   

has appealed the denial of its motion for summary judgment and
    the California Court of Appeals has agreed to hear the
    Company s appeal. The Company cannot estimate the possible
    loss to the Company, if any. No trial date has been set. The
    Company believes its employment application complies with
    California law, and the Company intends to vigorously defend the
    lawsuit.

As previously disclosed in the Company s
     Form 10-Q 
    for the Quarterly Period Ended June 29, 2008, two former
    employees of the Company filed a lawsuit, entitled  Sean
    Pendlebury and Laurel Overton v. Starbucks Coffee Company,
     in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
    Florida claiming the Company violated requirements of the Fair
    Labor Standards Act ( FLSA ). In August 2008, the
    Company and the plaintiffs agreed upon terms of a settlement
    which was approved by the court on August 21, 2008.

The Company is party to various other legal proceedings arising
    in the ordinary course of its business, but it is not currently
    a party to any legal proceeding that management believes would
    have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
    position or results of operations of the Company.

Note 18:    

Segment
    Reporting  

Segment information is prepared on the same basis that the
    Company s management reviews financial information for
    operational decision making purposes. Starbucks has three
    reportable operating segments: United States, International and
    CPG.

United
    States   

The Company s United States operations represent 80% of
    total Company-operated retail revenues, 55% of total specialty
    revenues and 76% of total net revenues for fiscal year 2008.
    United States operations sell coffee and other beverages,
    complementary food, whole bean coffees, and coffee brewing
    equipment and merchandise primarily through Company-operated
    retail stores. Specialty operations within the United States
    include licensed retail stores, foodservice accounts and other
    initiatives related to the Company s core business.

International   

The Company s International operations represent the
    remaining 20% of Company-operated retail revenues and 21% of
    total specialty revenues as well as 20% of total net revenues
    for fiscal year 2008. International operations sell coffee and
    other beverages, complementary food, whole bean coffees, and
    coffee brewing equipment and merchandise through
    Company-operated retail stores in the UK, Canada and nine other
    markets. Specialty operations in International primarily include
    retail store licensing operations in nearly 40 countries and
    foodservice accounts, primarily in Canada and Japan. Many of the
    Company s International operations are in early stages of
    development that require a more extensive support organization,
    relative to the current levels of revenue and operating income,
    than in the United States.

Global
    Consumer Products Group   

The Company s CPG segment represents 24% of total specialty
    revenues and 4% of total net revenues for fiscal year 2008. CPG
    operations sell a selection of whole bean and ground coffees as
    well as a selection of premium
    Tazo   

    teas through licensing arrangements in US and international
    markets. CPG operations also produce and sell ready-to-drink
    beverages which include, among others, bottled
    Frappuccino   

    beverages, Starbucks
    DoubleShot   

    espresso drinks, and
    Discoveries   

    chilled cup coffee, as well as
    Starbucks   

    superpremium ice creams and
    Starbucks  tm  

    Coffee and Cream Liqueurs, through its joint ventures and
    marketing and distribution agreements.

Unallocated Corporate includes expenses pertaining to corporate
    administrative functions that support the operating segments but
    are not specifically attributable to or managed by any segment
    and are not included in the reported financial results of the
    operating segments. These unallocated corporate expenses include
    certain general and administrative expenses, related
    depreciation and amortization expenses, restructuring charges
    and amounts included in  Interest income and other,
    net  and  Interest expense  on the consolidated
    statements of earnings.

73

Table of Contents   

The Company s revenue mix by product type was as follows
    ( in millions ):

(1)  

Other includes royalty and licensing revenues 

The tables below represent information by geographic area ( in
    millions ):

No customer accounts for 10% or more of the Company s
    revenues. Revenues are shown based on the geographic location of
    the customers. Revenues from countries other than the United
    States consist primarily of revenues from Canada and the UK,
    which together account for approximately 69% of net revenues
    from other countries for fiscal 2008.

Management evaluates the performance of its operating segments
    based on net revenues and operating income. The accounting
    policies of the operating segments are the same as those
    described in the summary of significant accounting policies in
    Note 1. Operating income represents earnings before
     Interest income and other, net,   Interest
    expense  and  Income taxes.  Allocations of
    portions of corporate overhead, interest or income taxes to the
    segments are not significant. Identifiable assets by segment are
    those assets used in the Company s operations in each
    segment. Unallocated corporate assets include cash and
    investments, unallocated assets of the corporate headquarters
    and roasting facilities, deferred taxes and certain other
    intangibles.

74

Table of Contents   

The table below presents information by operating segment for
    the fiscal years noted  (in millions) :

75

Table of Contents   

Note 19:    

Summarized
    Quarterly Financial Information (unaudited, in millions, except
    EPS)  

(1)  

Includes pretax restructuring charges of $167.7 million. 

(2)  

Includes pretax restructuring charges of $99.2 million. 

76

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Starbucks
    Corporation

Seattle, Washington

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company )
    as of September 28, 2008 and September 30, 2007, and
    the related consolidated statements of earnings,
    shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended September 28, 2008. These
    financial statements are the responsibility of the
    Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
    Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
    obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
    statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
    assessing the accounting principles used and significant
    estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
    financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
    fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
    Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries as of September 28,
    2008 and September 30, 2007, and the results of their
    operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
    the period ended September 28, 2008, in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements, on October 1, 2006, the Company changed its
    method of accounting for conditional asset retirement
    obligations upon adoption of Financial Accounting Standards
    Board Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for
    Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations - an interpretation of
    FASB Statement No. 143 .

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
    the Company s internal control over financial reporting as
    of September 28, 2008, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    and our report dated November 24, 2008 expressed an
    unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

Seattle, Washington

November 24, 2008

77

Table of Contents   

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

Not applicable.

Item 9A.    

Controls
    and Procedures   

Disclosure
    Controls and Procedures  

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that
    are designed to ensure that material information required to be
    disclosed in the Company s periodic reports filed or
    submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
    (the  Exchange Act ), is recorded, processed,
    summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
    SEC s rules and forms. Starbucks disclosure controls and
    procedures are also designed to ensure that information required
    to be disclosed in the reports the Company files or submits
    under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the
    Company s management, including its principal executive
    officer and principal financial officer as appropriate, to allow
    timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

During the fourth quarter the Company carried out an evaluation,
    under the supervision and with the participation of the
    Company s management, including the chief executive officer
    and the chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the
    design and operation of the disclosure controls and procedures,
    as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, the
    Company s chief executive officer and chief financial
    officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls
    and procedures were effective, as of the end of the period
    covered by this report (September 28, 2008).

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, there were no changes
    in the Company s internal control over financial reporting
    (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)  of
    the Exchange Act) that materially affected or are reasonably
    likely to materially affect internal control over financial
    reporting.

The certifications required by Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as exhibits 31.1 and
    31.2, respectively, to this
     10-K. 

Report of
    Management on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting  

The management of Starbucks is responsible for establishing and
    maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
    Internal control over financial reporting is a process to
    provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our
    financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America. Internal control over financial
    reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail
    accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing
    reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
    for preparation of our financial statements; providing
    reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures are made in
    accordance with management authorization; and providing
    reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or
    disposition of company assets that could have a material effect
    on our financial statements would be prevented or detected on a
    timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal
    control over financial reporting is not intended to provide
    absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial
    statements would be prevented or detected.

Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
    internal control over financial reporting based on the framework
    and criteria established in  Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework , issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission. This evaluation
    included review of the documentation of controls, evaluation of
    the design effectiveness of controls, testing of the operating
    effectiveness of controls and a conclusion on this evaluation.
    Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting was
    effective as of September 28, 2008.

The Company s internal control over financial reporting as
    of September 28, 2008, has been audited by
    Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is
    included herein.

78

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Starbucks
    Corporation

Seattle, Washington

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of
    Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company )
    as of September 28, 2008, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. The Company s management is responsible for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of
    Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
    Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
    obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal
    control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
    company s principal executive and principal financial
    officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected
    by the company s board of directors, management, and other
    personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over
    financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
    improper management override of controls, material misstatements
    due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a
    timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
    effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting
    to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
    become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
    degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
    deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of September 28, 2008, based on the criteria established in
    Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year
    ended September 28, 2008, of the Company and our report
    dated November 24, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on
    those financial statements.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

Seattle, Washington

November 24, 2008

79

Table of Contents   

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

None.

PART III  

As used in this Part III,  Starbucks  and the
     Company  mean Starbucks Corporation.

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

The information required by this item regarding the
    Company s directors is incorporated herein by reference to
    the sections entitled  Proposal 1   Election
    Of Directors  and  Executive Compensation  
    Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  and  Corporate Governance  
    Board Committees and Related Matters  in the Company s
    definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders to be held on March 18, 2009 (the  Proxy
    Statement ). Information regarding the Company s
    executive officers is set forth in Item 4 of Part 1 of
    this Report under the caption  Executive Officers of the
    Registrant. 

The Company adopted a code of ethics applicable to its chief
    executive officer, chief financial officer, controller and other
    finance leaders, which is a  code of ethics  as
    defined by applicable rules of the SEC. This code is publicly
    available on the Company s website at
    www.starbucks.com/aboutus/corporate_governance.asp. If the
    Company makes any amendments to this code other than technical,
    administrative or other non-substantive amendments, or grants
    any waivers, including implicit waivers, from a provision of
    this code to the Company s chief executive officer, chief
    financial officer or controller, the Company will disclose the
    nature of the amendment or waiver, its effective date and to
    whom it applies on its website or in a report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the sections entitled  Executive
    Compensation  and  Corporate Governance  
    Compensation Committee  in the Proxy Statement.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Shareholder Matters   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the sections entitled  Beneficial Ownership of
    Common Stock  and  Executive Compensation  
    Equity Compensation Plan Information  in the Proxy
    Statement.

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the section entitled  Executive
    Compensation   Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions  and  Corporate Governance  
    Affirmative Determinations Regarding Director Independence and
    Other Matters  in the Proxy Statement.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the sections entitled  Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm Fees  and  Policy on Audit
    Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit
    Services of the Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm  in the Proxy Statement.

80

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a) The following documents are filed as a part of this
     10-K: 

1.    

Financial
    Statements  

The following financial statements are included in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     10-K: 

2.    

Financial
    Statement Schedules  

Financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not
    required or are not applicable, or the required information is
    provided in the consolidated financial statements or notes
    described in Item 15(a)(1) above.

The Exhibits listed in the Index to Exhibits, which appears
    immediately following the signature page and is incorporated
    herein by reference, are filed as part of this
     10-K. 

81

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has
    duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
    undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

STARBUCKS CORPORATION 

By: 

/s/  Howard
    Schultz

Howard Schultz

chairman, president and chief executive officer

November 24, 2008

POWER OF
    ATTORNEY  

Know all persons by these presents, that each person whose
    signature appears below constitutes and appoints Howard Schultz
    and Peter J. Bocian, and each of them, as such person s
    true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of
    substitution and resubstitution, for such person and in such
    person s name, place and stead, in any and all capacities,
    to sign any and all amendments to this Report, and to file the
    same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
    connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and
    each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each
    and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in
    connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as
    such person might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
    confirming that all said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of
    them or their or such person s substitute or substitutes,
    may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue thereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, this report has been signed below by the
    following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
    capacities indicated as of November 24, 2008.

Signature 

Title 

By:

/s/  Howard
    Schultz

Howard
    Schultz

chairman, president and chief executive officer

By:

/s/  Peter
    J. Bocian

Peter
    J. Bocian

executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief
    administrative officer (principal financial officer and
    principal accounting officer)

By:

/s/  Barbara
    Bass

Barbara
    Bass

director

By:

/s/  William
    W. Bradley

William
    W. Bradley

director

By:

/s/  Mellody
    Hobson

Mellody
    Hobson

director

By:

/s/  Olden
    Lee

Olden
    Lee

director

82

Table of Contents   

Signature 

Title 

By:

/s/  James
    G. Shennan Jr.

James
    G. Shennan Jr.

director

By:

/s/  Javier
    G. Teruel

Javier
    G. Teruel

director

By:

/s/  Myron
    E. Ullman III

Myron
    E. Ullman III

director

By:

/s/  Craig
    E. Weatherup

Craig
    E. Weatherup

director

83

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    EXHIBITS  

84

Table of Contents   

85

Table of Contents   

86

Table of Contents   

Incorporated by Reference 

Exhibit 

Date of 

Exhibit 

Filed 

Number 

Exhibit Description 

Form 

File No. 

First Filing 

Number 

Herewith 

31

.1

Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to
     Rule 13a-14 
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, As Adopted Pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

X

31

.2

Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to
     Rule 13a-14 
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, As Adopted Pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

X

32

Certifications of Principal Executive Officer and Principal
    Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 USC. Section 1350, As
    Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002

X

*  

Denotes a compensatory plan, contract or arrangement, in which
    the Company s directors or executive officers may
    participate. Pike Place is a trademark of the Pike Place Market
    PDA, used under license. 

87

<EX-10.33>
 2
 v50316exv10w33.htm
 EX-10.33

exv10w33 

EXHIBIT
10.33

SEPARATION AGREEMENT AND RELEASE 

This
Separation Agreement and Release (the   Agreement  ) is
entered into by James C. Alling
( Alling ) and Starbucks Corporation (  Starbucks  ).

RECITALS 

A. Alling has been employed by Starbucks as president, Starbucks Coffee
International. Alling s employment at Starbucks will terminate on July 29, 2008 (the
  Separation Date  ).

B. Starbucks and Alling enter this Agreement to clarify their respective rights
and responsibilities arising out of the conclusion of Alling s employment relationship,
including Alling s reaffirmation of post-separation commitments arising under the non-competition agreement between Starbucks and Alling (the   Non-Competition Agreement  )
and the confidentiality agreement set forth in Paragraph 7 (the   Confidentiality
Agreement  ).

AGREEMENTS 

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and the mutual promises
contained below, it is agreed as follows:

1. Separation Date and Responsibilities.  Alling s employment with Starbucks
will end on July 29, 2008. Alling thereafter will have no further duties or responsibilities
to
Starbucks.

2. Compensation.  Except as may be expressly provided for in this Agreement,
Alling agrees and acknowledges that he is and shall be entitled to no further or additional
compensation of any kind after the Separation Date. If Alling signs this Agreement and does
not revoke it pursuant to Paragraph 18, Starbucks will pay Alling the equivalent of twelve
months of his base salary, payable in a lump sum within ten days following the revocation
period set forth in Paragraph 18, subject to customary tax and other withholdings.

Starbucks and Alling agree that these payments are expressly conditioned on his strict
compliance with the terms of this Agreement, the Non-Competition Agreement and the Confidentiality
Agreement. Any violation of any of these agreements, whether material or not, shall result in (a) a
forfeiture by Alling of any unpaid compensation that might otherwise be owing to Alling pursuant to
this Paragraph 2, and (b) an obligation by Alling to immediately repay to Starbucks any and all
compensation previously paid to Alling by Starbucks pursuant to this Paragraph 2. Starbucks may, in
addition, pursue whatever other rights or remedies it may have against Alling, including, without
limitation, enforcing this Agreement, the Non-Competition Agreement or the Confidentiality Agreement, through injunctive
relief and/or seeking an award of attorneys fees and costs.

3. Medical Coverage.  Starbucks agrees to provide Alling with a lump sum
payment equal to the cost of COBRA continuation coverage under the applicable Starbucks
medical, dental and vision programs for a period of twelve months, less applicable
withholding taxes. This payment may be used by Alling at his discretion to pay for the post-
employment continuation of medical, dental and/or vision coverage pursuant to COBRA if
Alling properly elects such coverage. Alling agrees and acknowledges that he will be solely
responsible for remitting all COBRA payments, and will be solely responsible for the cost of
any additional COBRA coverage at the standard COBRA rate and in accordance with the
terms and conditions of COBRA and the Starbucks COBRA procedures.

4. Outplacement Services.  Starbucks will provide Alling with twelve months
of outplacement services (until July 29, 2009) through the firm of Lee Hecht Harrison, up to
a maximum of $14,000. Such services shall commence as of the Separation Date.

5. Valid Consideration.  Alling and Starbucks agree that the offer of
compensation by Starbucks to Alling described in Paragraph 2 is not required by Starbucks
policies or procedures or by any pre-existing contractual obligation of Starbucks or by any
statute, regulation or ordinance, and is offered by Starbucks solely as consideration for this
Agreement.

6. Stock Options and Other Compensation and Benefits.  Alling
acknowledges and agrees that any vested options to acquire shares of Starbucks common
stock shall expire or be exercisable in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
applicable plan documents, program documents and grant agreements. Alling agrees that he
will conduct any and all market transactions involving Starbucks securities in compliance
with the Starbucks Insider Trading Policy and Blackout Procedures.

Alling s participation in all equity compensation, incentive compensation and all other
compensation and benefits plans, programs and agreements shall terminate effective as of the
Separation Date. Alling acknowledges and agrees that he shall not be entitled to any compensation
and benefits after the Separation Date except as specified in this Agreement or by the terms of the
Starbucks 401(k) Plan or Management Deferred Compensation Plan.

7. Post-Separation Commitments.  Alling expressly reaffirms his on-going
duties and responsibilities under the Non-Competition Agreement following the Separation
Date.

In addition, Alling agrees not to use, publish, misappropriate or disclose any Confidential
Information following the Separation Date, except as expressly
authorized in writing by Starbucks
Board of Directors. For this purpose  Confidential Information  shall have the meaning set forth in
the Non-Competition Agreement and incorporated herein by reference. If Alling violates the
agreement set forth in this Paragraph 7, Starbucks and its successors and assigns shall have (a)
the right or remedy, in the event of a breach or a

threatened breach, to have the provisions of this Agreement specifically enforced by any court
having jurisdiction, it being acknowledged and agreed that any such breach or threatened breach
will cause irreparable injury to Starbucks and that money damages will not provide an adequate
remedy, and (b) all other rights and remedies available at law or in equity. The agreement set
forth in this Paragraph 7 supplements Alling s other confidentiality agreements with Starbucks,
including obligations imposed under all applicable Starbucks policies and procedures, as well as
those imposed by law.

8. Additional Confidentiality.  Alling agrees to keep the fact, terms and amount
of this Agreement completely confidential and further agrees that disclosure to the public or
to any employee of Starbucks of the terms of this Agreement will constitute a material
breach. Alling will be permitted to provide information concerning this Agreement to
Alling s attorneys, accountants, immediate family members, or to make other disclosures
which are required by law, but Alling must first inform any such person of this
confidentiality provision and instruct them that they are bound by it and have an obligation
to
abide by it.

9. General Release of Claims.  Alling expressly waives any claims against
Starbucks, including its affiliates, subsidiaries, stockholders, directors, officers,
managers,
representatives, agents, and employees, past and present from any claims, whether known or
unknown, which existed or may have existed at any time up to the date of this Agreement,
including claims related in any way to Alling s employment with Starbucks or the ending of
that relationship. This release includes, but is not limited to, any claims for wages,
bonuses,
employment benefits, stock options, or damages of any kind whatsoever, arising out of any
common law torts, arising out of any contracts, express or implied, any covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, express or implied, any theory of wrongful discharge, any theory of
negligence, any theory of retaliation, any theory of discrimination or harassment in any form,
any legal restriction on Starbucks right to terminate employees, or any federal, state, or
other
governmental statute, executive order, or ordinance.

This waiver and release shall be construed as broadly and comprehensively as applicable law
permits. However, it shall not be construed as releasing or waiving any right that, as a matter of
law, cannot be released or waived, including without limitation the right to file a charge or
participate in an investigation or proceeding conducted by the EEOC pursuant to the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act (  ADEA   provided that Alling waives any right to recover
monetary remedies on Alling s own behalf.

10. No Sale, Transfer or Assignment of Interest.  Alling warrants and affirms
that he has not sold, transferred, or otherwise assigned all or any of his interest in any of
the
claims or causes of action released in this Agreement and that Alling is the only person
empowered to release such claims.

11. Nondisparagement.  Alling agrees to refrain from making any derogatory or
disparaging comments to the press or any individual or entity
regarding Starbucks, its business or related activities, its shareholders, employees or agents or the relationship
between the parties.

12. Return
of Property.  Alling confirms that he has or will immediately, upon
the Separation Date, return to Starbucks all files, memoranda, records, credit cards, pagers,
computers, computer files, passwords and pass keys, card keys, or related physical or
electronic access devices, and any and all other property received from Starbucks or any of
its current or former employees or generated by Alling in the course of employment.

13. Additional
Cooperation.  Alling agrees to give Starbucks his full cooperation
in connection with any claims, lawsuits or proceedings that relate in any manner to Alling s
conduct or duties at Starbucks or that are based on facts about which
Alling obtained
personal knowledge while employed at Starbucks. In return, Starbucks agrees to provide
legal counsel on Alling s behalf and to reimburse Alling for his direct and reasonable out of
pocket expenses (including reasonable attorney s fees) incurred with respect to rendering
such cooperation. Alling further agrees that he will not voluntarily become a party to, or
directly or indirectly aid or encourage any other party in connection with, any lawsuit,
claim,
demand, or adversarial or investigatory proceeding of any kind involving Starbucks or that
relates in any material way to Alling s employment with Starbucks or that is based on facts
about which Alling obtained personal knowledge while employed with Starbucks. Alling s
compliance with a subpoena or other legally compulsive process will not be a violation of
this provision.

14. Breach
or Default.  Any party s failure to enforce this Agreement in the event
of one or more events that violate this Agreement shall not constitute a waiver of any right
to
enforce this Agreement against subsequent violations.

15. Severability.  The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and except for
Paragraph 9, if any part of them is found to be unlawful or unenforceable, the other
provisions of this Agreement shall remain fully valid and enforceable to the maximum extent
consistent with applicable law. Should Paragraph 9 be held unlawful or unenforceable,
Starbucks obligations to Alling under Paragraph 2 shall cease,
and Alling shall immediately
return to Starbucks any monetary payments Alling may have received pursuant to
Paragraph 2.

16. Entire Agreement.  This Agreement sets forth the entire understanding
between Alling and Starbucks and supersedes any prior agreements or understandings,
express or implied, pertaining to the terms of Alling s employment with Starbucks and the
employment relationship, with the exception of (a) the Non-Competition Agreement and
(b) the Confidentiality Agreement, both of which shall remain fully enforceable and which
are incorporated into this Agreement by reference. Alling acknowledges that in executing
this Agreement, Alling does not rely upon any representation or statement by any
representative of Starbucks concerning the subject matter of this Agreement, except as
expressly set forth in the text of the Agreement. No modification or waiver of this
Agreement shall be effective unless evidenced in a writing signed by
both parties. This Agreement may be executed in one or more copies or counterparts and each such copy shall constitute
a duplicate original of this Agreement.

17. Governing Law; Attorney s Fees.  This Agreement will be governed by and
construed exclusively in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington without
reference to its choice of law principles. Any disputes arising under this Agreement, or the
Non-Competition Agreement, shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in King
County, Washington. In any action brought to enforce any obligation arising out of this
Agreement, the substantially prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable
attorney s fees and costs.

18. Knowing and Voluntary Agreement. Alling agrees that he has carefully
read and fully understands all aspects of this Agreement including the fact that this
Agreement releases any claims that Alling might have against Starbucks. Alling agrees
that he has not relied upon any representations or statements not set forth herein or
made by Starbucks agents or representatives. Finally, Alling agrees that he has been
advised to consult with an attorney prior to executing the Agreement, and that Alling
has either done so or knowingly waived the right to do so, and now enters into this
Agreement without duress or coercion from any source. Alling agrees that he has been
provided the opportunity to consider for twenty-one (21) days whether to enter into this
Agreement, and has voluntarily chosen to enter into it on this date. Alling may revoke
this Agreement for a period of seven (7) days following the execution of this Agreement
by written notice timely delivered to the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary of Starbucks. This Agreement shall become effective following expiration of
this seven (7) day period. 

</EX-10.33>

<EX-12>
 3
 v50316exv12.htm
 EX-12

exv12 

EXHIBIT 12

Starbucks Corporation 
COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
( in millions, except ratios )

(1)  
       
     Earnings represent income from continuing operations before provision for income
taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change. 

(2)  
       
     Includes amortization of debt-related expenses and interest capitalized during the
period. 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 4
 v50316exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21

SUBSIDIARIES OF STARBUCKS CORPORATION 

The list below excludes certain subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate as a single
subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary under SEC rules as of September 28, 2008.

Alki Limited Partnership (a UK Limited partnership) 
     Starbucks Coffee EMEA B.V. (a Dutch B.V.) 
          Starbucks Manufacturing EMEA B.V. (a Dutch B.V.) 
          Starbucks Coffee (Deutschland) GmbH (a German corporation) 
          Starbucks Coffee Company (Ireland) Limited (an Irish corporation)

Olympic Casualty Insurance Company II (a Vermont corporation)

SCI UK I, Inc. (a Washington corporation)

Seattle Coffee Company (a Georgia corporation) 
     Seattle s Best Coffee LLC (a Washington limited liability company) 
     Torrefazione Italia LLC (a Washington limited liability company)

Starbucks Capital Asset Leasing Company, LLC (a Delaware limited liability company)

Starbucks Coffee Company (Australia) Pty. Ltd. (an Australian corporation)

Starbucks Coffee Canada, Inc. (a Canadian corporation)

Starbucks Coffee Holdings (UK) Limited (a UK corporation) 
     Starbucks Coffee Company (UK) Limited (a UK corporation) 
     Torz   Macatonia Limited (a UK corporation)

Starbucks Coffee International, Inc. (a Washington corporation) 
     Coffee Concepts (Hong Kong) Limited (a Hong Kong corporation) 
          Coffee Concepts (Macau) Limited (a Macau corporation) 
     Coffee Concepts (Southern China) Ltd. (a Hong Kong corporation) 
          Coffee Concepts (Guangdong) Ltd. (a Chinese corporation) 
          Coffee Concepts (Shenzhen) Ltd. (a Chinese corporation) 
     Rain City C.V. (a Dutch Limited Partnership) 
          Emerald City C.V. (a Dutch Limited Partnership) 
               High Grown Investment Group (Hong Kong) Limited (a Hong Kong corporation) 
                    Beijing Starbucks Coffee Company Ltd. (a Chinese corporation) 
          Starbucks Coffee Trading Company S rl (a Swiss S rl) 
               Starbucks Coffee Agronomy Company S.R.L. (a Costa Rica S.R.L.) 
               Starbucks Farmer Support Center Rwanda Sarl (a Rwanda sarl) 
     SBI Nevada, Inc. (a Nevada corporation) 
     SCI Investment, Inc. (a Washington corporation) 
               Starbucks Coffee Puerto Rico, LLC (a Delaware corporation) 
     SCI Europe I, Inc. (a Washington corporation) 
     SCI Europe II, Inc. (a Washington corporation) 
     SCI Ventures, S.L. (a Spanish limited liability company) 
     Starbucks Asia Pacific Investment Holding Limited (a Chinese corporation) 
          Qingdao American Starbucks Coffee Company Limited (a Chinese corporation) 
          Starbucks Coffee (Dalian) Company Limited (a Chinese corporation) 
          Starbucks Coffee (Liaoning) Co., Ltd. (a Chinese corporation) 
     Starbucks Asia Pacific Investment II Holding Limited (a Hong Kong corporation) 
          Starbucks (China) Company Limited (a Chinese corporation)

Starbucks (Shanghai) Supply Chain Co., Ltd. (a Chinese corporation)

Starbucks Asia Pacific Investment III Holding Limited (a Hong Kong corporation) 
          Chengdu Starbucks Coffee Company Limited (a Chinese corporation) 
          Hubei Starbucks Coffee Company Limited (a Chinese corporation) 
          Xi an Starbucks Coffee Company Limited (a Chinese corporation) 
     Starbucks Card Europe, Limited (a UK corporation) 
     Starbucks Coffee Asia Pacific Limited (a Hong Kong corporation) 
     Starbucks Coffee Chile S.A. (a Chilean corporation) 
     Starbucks Coffee Singapore Pte. Ltd. (a Singapore corporation) 
     Starbucks Singapore Investment Pte. Ltd. (a Singapore corporation)

Starbucks Coffee (Thailand) Ltd. (a Thailand corporation)

Starbucks CPG International G.K. (a Japanese corporation)

Starbucks Holding Company (a Washington corporation)

Starbucks Manufacturing Corporation (a Washington corporation)

Starbucks Servicios de Consultoria Empresarial Ltda. (a Brazil corporation)

Starbucks New Venture Company (a Washington corporation)

Starbucks U.S. Brands, LLC (a Nevada limited liability company)

Urban Coffee Opportunities, LLC (a Washington limited liability company)

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 v50316exv23.htm
 EX-23

exv23 

EXHIBIT 23

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 33-52526, 33-52528,
33-92208, 33-92184, 333-65181, 333-94987, 333-37442, 333-70648, 333-101806, 333-114090, 333-123688,
and 333-142878 on Form S-8, and 333-145572 on Form S-3 of our reports, relating to the consolidated
financial statements of Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries (which report expresses an
unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the adoption of Financial
Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 ) and the effectiveness of Starbucks
Corporation s internal control over financial reporting dated November 24, 2008, appearing in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Starbucks Corporation for the year ended September 28, 2008.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
Seattle, Washington 
November 24, 2008

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 v50316exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Howard Schultz, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2008
of Starbucks Corporation (the  Registrant  

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and we have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

November 24, 2008  
     /s/ Howard Schultz

Howard Schultz  

chairman, president and chief executive officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 v50316exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Peter J. Bocian, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2008
of Starbucks Corporation (the  Registrant  

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and we have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

November 24, 2008  
     /s/ Peter J. Bocian

Peter J. Bocian  

executive vice president, chief financial officer
and chief administrative officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 8
 v50316exv32.htm
 EX-32

exv32 

EXHIBIT 32

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 USC. SECTION 1350 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report of Starbucks Corporation ( Starbucks ) on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended September 28, 2008, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
November 24, 2008 (the  Report ), Howard Schultz, Chairman, president and chief executive officer
of Starbucks, and Peter J. Bocian, executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief
administrative officer of Starbucks, each hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 USC. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to his knowledge:

(1) 
       
     the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of Starbucks. 

November 24, 2008  
     /s/ Howard Schultz

Howard Schultz  

chairman, president and chief executive officer  

November 24, 2008  
     /s/ Peter J. Bocian

Peter J. Bocian  

executive vice president, chief financial officer
and chief administrative officer  

</EX-32>

