<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20121116_10-K_edgar_data_829224_0000829224-12-000007_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>18728850</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>334884</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4501966</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5330108</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5627262</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2621971</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>89</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000829224-12-000007.hdr.sgml : 20121116
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20121116172912
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000829224-12-000007
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20120930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20121116
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20121116

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			STARBUCKS CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000829224
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-EATING & DRINKING PLACES [5810]
		IRS NUMBER:				911325671
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0928

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20322
		FILM NUMBER:		121212696

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 34067
		CITY:			SEATTLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98124-1067
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2064471575

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2401 UTAH AVENUE SOUTH
		CITY:			SEATTLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98134

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000829224-12-000007.txt : 20121116

10-K
 1
 sbux-9302012x10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

SBUX - 9.30.2012 - 10K 

Table of Contents  

   UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, DC 20549 
  Form 10-K 
  x   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  For the Fiscal Year Ended   September 30, 2012    
  or 
      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  For the transition period from            to            . 
  Commission File Number: 0-20322 
  Starbucks Corporation 
  (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) 

2401 Utah Avenue South, Seattle, Washington 98134 
  (206) 447-1575 
  (Address of principal executive offices, zip code, telephone number) 
  Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of Each Class 
      
    Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 
      Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share 
      
    Nasdaq Global Select Market 

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes    x      No      
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes           No    x 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes    x      No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes    x      No      
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation of S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
                     Large accelerated filer 
    x 
    Accelerated filer 
      
      Non-accelerated filer 
         (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 
    Smaller reporting company 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes           No    x 
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, based upon the closing sale price of the registrant s common stock on   March 30, 2012   as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was   $41 billion  . As of   November 9, 2012  , there were   743.6 million   shares of the registrant s Common Stock outstanding. 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement for the registrant s Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on   March 20, 2013   have been incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  
       Table of Contents  

   STARBUCKS CORPORATION 
  Form 10-K 
  For the Fiscal Year Ended   September 30, 2012    
  TABLE OF CONTENTS                   PART I 
      Item 1 
     Business  
    2 
      Item 1A 
     Risk Factors  
    10 
      Item 1B 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    17 
      Item 2 
     Properties  
    17 
      Item 3 
     Legal Proceedings  
    17 
      Item 4 
     Mine Safety Disclosures     
    18 
      PART II 
      Item 5 
     Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    19 
      Item 6 
     Selected Financial Data  
    22 
      Item 7 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    25 
      Item 7A 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    49 
      Item 8 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    50 
        
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
    89 
      Item 9 
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    90 
      Item 9A 
     Controls and Procedures  
    90 
      Item 9B 
     Other Information  
    92 
      PART III 
      Item 10 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    93 
      Item 11 
     Executive Compensation  
    93 
      Item 12 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters  
    93 
      Item 13 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    93 
      Item 14 
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
    93 
      PART IV 
      Item 15 
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  
    94 
       SIGNATURES  
    95 
       INDEX TO EXHIBITS  
    97 

Table of Contents  

   CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes  forward-looking  statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They often include words such as  believes,   expects,   anticipates,   estimates,   intends,   plans,   seeks  or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs, such as  will,   should,   could,   may,   aims,   intends,  or  projects.  A forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future events or circumstances may not occur. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed under  Risk Factors  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any other public statement made by us, including by our management, may turn out to be incorrect. We are including this cautionary note to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 

1 

       Table of Contents  

   PART I 
             Item 1. 
    Business 
       
  General 
  Starbucks is the premier roaster, marketer and retailer of specialty coffee in the world, operating in   60   countries. Formed in 1985, Starbucks Corporation s common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ( NASDAQ ) under the symbol  SBUX.  We purchase and roast high-quality coffees that we sell, along with handcrafted coffee, tea and other beverages and a variety of fresh food items, through company-operated stores. We also sell a variety of coffee and tea products and license our trademarks through other channels such as licensed stores, grocery and national foodservice accounts. In addition to our flagship Starbucks brand, our portfolio also includes Tazo        Tea, Seattle s Best Coffee       , Starbucks VIA        Ready Brew, Starbucks Refreshers  beverages, Evolution Fresh , La Boulange bakery brand and the Verismo  System by Starbucks. 
  Our objective is to maintain Starbucks standing as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. To achieve this goal, we are continuing the disciplined expansion of our global store base. In addition, by leveraging the experience gained through our traditional store model, we continue to offer consumers new coffee products in a variety of forms, across new categories, and through diverse channels. Starbucks Global Responsibility strategy and commitments related to coffee and the communities we do business in, as well as our focus on being an employer of choice, are also key complements to our business strategies. 
  In this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( 10-K  or  Report ) for the fiscal year ended   September 30, 2012   ( fiscal   2012   ), Starbucks Corporation (together with its subsidiaries) is referred to as  Starbucks,  the  Company,   we,   us  or  our.  
    
  Segment Financial Information 
  Segment information is prepared on the same basis that our management reviews financial information for operational decision-making purposes. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we redefined our reportable operating segments to align with the three-region leadership and organizational structure of our retail business that took effect at the beginning of fiscal 2012. 
  The three-region structure includes: 1) Americas, inclusive of the US, Canada, and Latin America; 2) Europe, Middle East, and Africa, collectively referred to as the  EMEA  region; and 3) China / Asia Pacific ( CAP ). Our chief executive officer, who is our chief operating decision maker, manages these businesses, evaluates financial results, and makes key operating decisions based on the new organizational structure. Accordingly, beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we revised our reportable operating segments from 1) US, 2) International, and 3) Global Consumer Products Group to the following   four   reportable segments: 1) Americas, 2) EMEA, 3) CAP, and 4) Global Consumer Products Group. In the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we renamed our Global Consumer Products Group segment  Channel Development.   Segment revenues as a percentage of total net revenues for fiscal year   2012   were as follows: Americas (  75%  ), EMEA (  9%  ), CAP (  5%  ), and Channel Development (  10%  ). 
  Concurrent with the change in reportable operating segments, we revised our prior period financial information to reflect comparable financial information for the new segment structure. Historical financial information presented herein reflects this change. 
  The Americas, EMEA, and CAP segments include both company-operated and licensed stores. Our Americas segment is our most mature business and has achieved significant scale. Certain markets within EMEA and CAP operations are in the early stages of development and require a more extensive support organization, relative to the current levels of revenue and operating income, than the Americas operations. The Americas and EMEA segments also include foodservice accounts, primarily in Canada and the UK. Our Americas segment also includes the retail and wholesale activities of Bay Bread, LLC (doing business as La Boulange), which was acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012.  
    2 

     Table of Contents  

   Our Channel Development segment includes whole bean and ground coffees, premium Tazo  teas, Starbucks VIA  Ready Brew, Starbucks        coffee and Tazo        tea K-Cup        portion packs, a variety of ready-to-drink beverages, such as Starbucks Refreshers  beverages, and other branded products sold worldwide through channels such as grocery stores, warehouse clubs, convenience stores, and US foodservice accounts. 
  Seattle s Best Coffee is reported in  Other  along with Evolution Fresh, Digital Ventures and unallocated corporate expenses that pertain to corporate administrative functions that support our operating segments but are not specifically attributable to or managed by any segment and are not included in the reported financial results of the operating segments. The Other category comprised approximately   1%   of total net revenues.  
  Financial information for Starbucks reportable operating segments and Other is included in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this 10-K.  
    
  Revenue Components 
  We generate our revenues through company-operated stores, licensed stores, consumer packaged goods ("CPG") and foodservice operations.  
    
  Company-operated and Licensed Store Summary as of   September 30, 2012    

The mix of company-operated versus licensed stores in a given market will vary based on several factors, including the ability to access desirable local retail space, the complexity and expected ultimate size of the market for Starbucks, and the ability to leverage the support infrastructure in an existing geographic region. 
    
  Company-operated Stores 
  Revenue from company-operated stores accounted for   79%   of total net revenues during fiscal   2012  . Our retail objective is to be the leading retailer and brand of coffee in each of our target markets by selling the finest quality coffee and related products, and by providing each customer a unique   Starbucks Experience  . The   Starbucks Experience   is built upon superior customer service as well as clean and well-maintained company-operated stores that reflect the personalities of the communities in which they operate, thereby building a high degree of customer loyalty. 
  Our strategy for expanding our global retail business is to increase our market share in a disciplined manner, by selectively opening additional stores in new and existing markets, as well as increasing sales in existing stores, to support our long-term strategic objective to maintain Starbucks standing as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. Store growth in specific existing markets will vary due to many factors, including the maturity of the market. 
    3 

     Table of Contents  

   The following is a summary of total company-operated store data for the periods indicated: 

Starbucks company-operated stores are typically located in high-traffic, high-visibility locations. Our ability to vary the size and format of our stores allows us to locate them in or near a variety of settings, including downtown and suburban retail centers, office buildings, university campuses, and in select rural and off-highway locations. To provide a greater degree of access and convenience for non-pedestrian customers, we continue to selectively expand development of drive-thru stores. 
  Starbucks stores offer a choice of regular and decaffeinated coffee beverages, a broad selection of Italian-style espresso beverages, cold blended beverages, iced shaken refreshment beverages, a selection of premium Tazo        teas, distinctively packaged roasted whole bean and ground coffees, a variety of Starbucks VIA        Ready Brew soluble coffees, Starbucks        coffee and Tazo        tea K-Cup        portion packs, Starbucks Refreshers  beverages, juices and bottled water. Starbucks stores also offer an assortment of fresh food items, including selections  
    4 

     Table of Contents  

   focusing on high-quality ingredients, nutritional value and great flavor. Food items include pastries, prepared breakfast and lunch sandwiches, oatmeal and salads. A focused selection of beverage-making equipment and accessories are also sold in our stores. Each Starbucks store varies its product mix depending upon the size of the store and its location. To complement the in-store experience, our US company-operated Starbucks stores also provide customers free access to wireless internet. 
  Retail sales mix by product type for company-operated stores: 

Starbucks Card 
  The Starbucks stored value card program is designed to increase customer loyalty and the frequency of store visits by cardholders. Starbucks Cards are accepted at company-operated and most licensed stores in North America. The cards are also accepted at a number of international locations. Customers who register their cards in the US, Canada, and certain other countries are enrolled in the My Starbucks Rewards  program and can receive various benefits depending on the number of Stars earned in a 12-month period.  
    
  Licensed Stores 
  Product sales to and royalty and license fee revenues from our licensed stores accounted for   9%   of total revenues in fiscal   2012  . In our licensed store operations, we leverage the expertise of our local partners and share our operating and store development experience. Licensees provide improved, and at times the only, access to desirable retail space. Most licensees are prominent retailers with in-depth market knowledge and access. As part of these arrangements, we receive royalties and license fees and sell coffee, tea and related products for resale in licensed locations. Employees working in licensed retail locations are required to follow our detailed store operating procedures and attend training classes similar to those given to employees in company-operated stores. For our Seattle s Best Coffee brand, we use various forms of licensing, including traditional franchising. 
    5 

     Table of Contents  

   Starbucks total licensed stores by country as of   September 30, 2012   are as follows: 

In the Americas,   351   and   296   licensed stores were opened during   2012   and   2011  , respectively, and   81   and   564   licensed stores were closed during   2012   and   2011  , respectively. The 564 licensed stores that were closed in the Americas during fiscal   2011   include 475 Seattle s Best Coffee locations in Borders Bookstores. In EMEA,   139   and   111   licensed stores were opened during   2012   and   2011  , respectively, and   38   and   32   licensed stores were closed during   2012   and   2011  , respectively. In CAP,   354   and   264   licensed stores were opened during   2012   and   2011  , respectively, and   60   and   71   licensed stores were closed during   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
    
  Consumer Packaged Goods 
  Consumer packaged goods includes both domestic and international sales of packaged coffee and tea as well as a variety of ready-to-drink beverages and single-serve coffee and tea products to grocery, warehouse club and specialty retail stores. It also includes revenues from product sales to and licensing revenues from manufacturers that produce and market Starbucks and Seattle s Best Coffee branded products through licensing agreements. Revenues from sales of consumer packaged goods comprised   8%   of total net revenues in fiscal   2012  . 
    
  Foodservice 
  Revenues from foodservice accounts comprised   4%   of total net revenues in fiscal   2012  . We sell Starbucks        and Seattle s Best Coffee        whole bean and ground coffees, a selection of premium Tazo        teas, Starbucks VIA        Ready Brew, and other coffee and tea related products to institutional foodservice companies that service business and industry, education, healthcare, office coffee distributors, hotels, restaurants, airlines and other retailers. We also sell our Seattle s Best Coffee        through arrangements with national accounts. The majority of the sales in this channel come through national broadline distribution networks with SYSCO Corporation, US Foodservice       , and other distributors. 
    
  Product Supply 
  Starbucks is committed to selling only the finest whole bean coffees and coffee beverages. To ensure compliance with our rigorous coffee standards, we control coffee purchasing, roasting and packaging, and the global distribution of coffee used in our operations. We purchase green coffee beans from multiple coffee-producing regions around the world and custom roast them to our exacting standards, for our many blends and single origin coffees. 
  The price of coffee is subject to significant volatility. Although most coffee trades in the commodity market, high-altitude   arabica   coffee of the quality sought by Starbucks tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium  
    6 

     Table of Contents  

   above the  C  coffee commodity price. Both the premium and the commodity price depend upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase. Supply and price can be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions. Price is also impacted by trading activities in the   arabica   coffee futures market, including hedge funds and commodity index funds. In addition, green coffee prices have been affected in the past, and may be affected in the future, by the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. 
  We buy coffee using fixed-price and price-to-be-fixed purchase commitments, depending on market conditions, to secure an adequate supply of quality green coffee. Price-to-be-fixed contracts are purchase commitments whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore the price, at which the base  C  coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. For these types of contracts, either Starbucks or the seller has the option to select a date on which to  fix  the base  C  coffee commodity price prior to the delivery date. Until prices are fixed, we estimate the total cost of these purchase commitments. Total green coffee purchase commitments as of   September 30, 2012   were   $854 million  , comprised of   $557 million   under fixed-price contracts and an estimated   $297 million   under price-to-be-fixed contracts. As of   September 30, 2012  , approximately   $125 million   of our price-to-be-fixed contracts were effectively fixed through the use of futures contracts. All price-to-be-fixed contracts as of   September 30, 2012   were at the Company s option to fix the base  C  coffee commodity price component. Total purchase commitments, together with existing inventory, are expected to provide an adequate supply of green coffee through fiscal 2013. 
  We depend upon our relationships with coffee producers, outside trading companies and exporters for our supply of green coffee. We believe, based on relationships established with our suppliers, the risk of non-delivery on such purchase commitments is remote. 
  To help ensure sustainability and future supply of high-quality green coffees and to reinforce our leadership role in the coffee industry, Starbucks operates Farmer Support Centers in six countries. The Farmer Support Centers are staffed with agronomists and sustainability experts who work with coffee farming communities to promote best practices in coffee production designed to improve both coffee quality and yields. 
  In addition to coffee, we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated stores. For our largest markets, the US, Canada and the UK, we purchase substantially all of our fluid milk requirements from eight dairy suppliers. We believe, based on relationships established with these suppliers, that the risk of non-delivery of sufficient fluid milk to support our stores is remote. 
  Products other than whole bean coffees and coffee beverages sold in Starbucks stores include Evolution Fresh  juices and a number of ready-to-drink beverages that are purchased from several specialty suppliers, usually under long-term supply contracts. Food products, such as pastries, breakfast sandwiches and lunch items, are purchased from national, regional and local sources. We also purchase a broad range of paper and plastic products, such as cups and cutlery, from several companies to support the needs of our retail stores as well as our manufacturing and distribution operations. We believe, based on relationships established with these suppliers and manufacturers, that the risk of non-delivery of these items is remote. 

Competition 
  Our primary competitors for coffee beverage sales are quick-service restaurants and specialty coffee shops. In almost all markets in which we do business, there are numerous competitors in the specialty coffee beverage business. We believe that our customers choose among specialty coffee retailers primarily on the basis of product quality, service and convenience, as well as price. We continue to experience direct competition from large competitors in the US quick-service restaurant sector and the US ready-to-drink coffee beverage market. We also continue to face competition from well-established companies in many international markets. 
    7 

     Table of Contents  

   Our coffee and tea products sold through our Channel Development segment compete directly against specialty coffees and teas sold through supermarkets, club stores and specialty retailers and compete indirectly against all other coffees and teas on the market. Starbucks also faces competition from both restaurants and other specialty retailers for prime retail locations and qualified personnel to operate both new and existing stores. 
    
  Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Domain Names 
  Starbucks owns and has applied to register numerous trademarks and service marks in the US and in additional countries throughout the world. Some of our trademarks, including Starbucks, the Starbucks logo, Seattle s Best Coffee, Frappuccino, Starbucks VIA and Tazo are of material importance. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. However, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. 
  We own numerous copyrights for items such as product packaging, promotional materials, in-store graphics and training materials. We also hold patents on certain products, systems and designs. In addition, Starbucks has registered and maintains numerous Internet domain names, including  Starbucks.com ,  Starbucks.net , and  Seattlesbest.com.  
    
  Seasonality and Quarterly Results 
  Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, including fluctuations resulting from the holiday season. Cash flows from operations are considerably higher in the first fiscal quarter than the remainder of the year. This is largely driven by cash received as Starbucks Cards are purchased and loaded during the holiday season. Since revenues from Starbucks Cards are recognized upon redemption and not when purchased, seasonal fluctuations on the consolidated statements of earnings are much less pronounced. Quarterly results can also be affected by the timing of the opening of new stores and the closing of existing stores. For these reasons, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. 
    
  Employees 
  Starbucks employed approximately   160,000   people worldwide as of   September 30, 2012  . In the US, Starbucks employed approximately   120,000   people, with   113,000   in company-operated stores and the remainder in support facilities, store development, and roasting and warehousing operations. Approximately   40,000   employees were employed outside of the US, with   38,000   in company-operated stores and the remainder in regional support facilities and roasting and warehousing operations. The number of Starbucks employees represented by unions is not significant. We believe our current relations with our employees are good. 
    
  Executive officers of the registrant 
                       Name 
      
    Age 
      
    Position 
      Howard Schultz 
      
    59 
      
    chairman, president and chief executive officer 
      Cliff Burrows 
      
    53 
      
    president, Starbucks Coffee Americas and US 
      John Culver 
      
    52 
      
    president, Starbucks Coffee China and Asia Pacific 
      Jeff Hansberry 
      
    48 
      
    president, Channel Development and Emerging Brands 
      Michelle Gass 
      
    44 
      
    president, Starbucks Coffee EMEA 
      Troy Alstead 
      
    49 
      
    chief financial officer and chief administrative officer 
      Lucy Lee Helm 
      
    55 
      
    executive vice president, general counsel and secretary 

8 

     Table of Contents  

   Howard Schultz   is the founder of Starbucks and serves as the chairman, president and chief executive officer. Mr. Schultz has served as chairman of the board since Starbucks inception in 1985 and he resumed his role as president and chief executive officer in January 2008. From June 2000 to February 2005, Mr. Schultz held the title of chief global strategist. From November 1985 to June 2000, he served as chief executive officer. From November 1985 to June 1994, Mr. Schultz also served as president. 
  Cliff Burrows   joined Starbucks in April 2001 and has served as president, Starbucks Coffee Americas and US since October 2011. From March 2008 to October 2011, Mr. Burrows served as president, Starbucks Coffee US. He served as president, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) from April 2006 to March 2008. He served as vice president and managing director, UK prior to April 2006. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Burrows served in various management positions with Habitat Designs Limited, a furniture and housewares retailer. 
  John Culver   joined Starbucks in August 2002 and has served as president, Starbucks Coffee China and Asia Pacific since October 2011. From December 2009 to October 2011, he served as president, Starbucks Coffee International. Mr. Culver served as executive vice president; president, Global Consumer Products, Foodservice and Seattle's Best Coffee from February 2009 to September 2009, and then as president, Global Consumer Products and Foodservice from October 2009 to November 2009. He previously served as senior vice president; president, Starbucks Coffee Asia Pacific from January 2007 to February 2009, and vice president; general manager, Foodservice from August 2002 to January 2007. 
  Jeff Hansberry   joined Starbucks in June 2010 and has served as president, Channel Development and Emerging Brands since June 2012. From October 2011 to June 2012, he served as president, Channel Development and president, Seattle's Best Coffee.  From June 2010 to October 2011, he served as president, Global Consumer Products and Foodservice. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Hansberry served as vice president and general manager, Popular BU for E.   J. Gallo Winery, a family-owned winery, from November 2008 to May 2010. From September 2007 to November 2008, Mr. Hansberry served as vice president and general manager, Value BU, and from April 2005 to August 2007, he served as vice president and general manager Asia, for E.   J. Gallo Winery. Prior to E.   J. Gallo, Mr. Hansberry held various positions with Procter   Gamble. 
  Michelle Gass   joined Starbucks in 1996 and has served as president, Starbucks Coffee EMEA since October 2011. From September 2009 to October 2011, she served as president, Seattle's Best Coffee. Ms. Gass served as senior vice president, Marketing and Category from July 2008 to November 2008, and then as executive vice president, Marketing and Category from December 2008 to September 2009. Ms. Gass previously served as senior vice president, Global Strategy, Office of the ceo from January 2008 to July 2008, senior vice president, Global Product and Brand from August 2007 to January 2008 and senior vice president, U.S. Category Management from May 2004 to August 2007. Ms. Gass served in a number of other positions with Starbucks prior to 2004. 
  Troy Alstead   joined Starbucks in 1992 and has served as chief financial officer and chief administrative officer since November 2008. Mr. Alstead previously served as chief operating officer, Starbucks Greater China from April 2008 to October 2008, senior vice president, Global Finance and Business Operations from August 2007 to April 2008, and senior vice president, Corporate Finance from September 2004 to August 2007. Mr. Alstead served in a number of other senior positions with Starbucks prior to 2004. 
  Lucy Lee Helm   joined Starbucks in September 1999 and has served as executive vice president, general counsel and secretary since May 2012. She served as senior vice president and deputy general counsel from October 2007 to April 2012 and served as interim general counsel and secretary from April 2012 to May 2012.  Ms. Helm previously served as vice president, assistant general counsel from June 2002 to September 2007 and as director, corporate counsel from September 1999 to May 2002.  During her tenure at Starbucks, Ms. Helm has led various teams of the Starbucks legal department, including the Litigation and Brand protection team, the Global Business (Commercial) team and the Litigation and Employment team. Prior to joining Starbucks, Ms. Helm was a principal at the Seattle law firm of Riddell Williams P.S. from 1990 to 1999, where she was a trial lawyer specializing in commercial, insurance coverage and environmental litigation. 
  There are no family relationships among any of our directors or executive officers. 
    
    9 

     Table of Contents  

   Global Responsibility 
  We are committed to being a deeply responsible company in the communities where we do business around the world. Our focus is on ethically sourcing high-quality coffee, reducing our environmental impacts and contributing positively to communities. Starbucks Global Responsibility strategy and commitments are integral to our overall business strategy. As a result, we believe we deliver benefits to our stakeholders, including employees, business partners, customers, suppliers, shareholders, community members and others. For an overview of Starbucks Global Responsibility strategy and commitments, please visit www.starbucks.com. 

Available Information 
  Starbucks 10-K reports, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.starbucks.com or at www.sec.gov as soon as reasonably practicable after these materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our corporate governance policies, code of ethics and Board committee charters and policies are also posted on the Investor Relations section of Starbucks website at investor.starbucks.com. The information on our website is not part of this or any other report Starbucks files with, or furnishes to, the SEC. 
    
             Item 1A. 
    Risk Factors    
     You should carefully consider the risks described below. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operation.  
             
    Our financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control.  
     Our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. Any one or more of the factors set forth below could adversely impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations:  
             
    lower customer traffic or average value per transaction, which negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income, operating margins and earnings per share, due to:  
                
    the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased competition generally;     
                
    customers trading down to lower priced products within Starbucks, and/or shifting to competitors with lower priced products;  
                
    lack of customer acceptance of new products or price increases necessary to cover costs of new products and/or higher input costs;  
                
    unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate that adversely affect consumer spending;  
                
    declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products; or  
                
    adverse impacts resulting from negative publicity regarding our business practices or the health effects of consuming our products;  
                
    cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond our control, such as:  
                
    commodity costs for commodities that can only be partially hedged, such as fluid milk and high-quality   arabica   coffee;  
       10 

     Table of Contents  

labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market wage levels and workers' compensation insurance costs;  
                
    adverse outcomes of current or future litigation; or  
                
    construction costs associated with new store openings and remodeling of existing stores;  
                
    any material interruption in our supply chain beyond our control, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants or the failures of third-party suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, or trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions;  
                
    delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share;  
                
    the degree to which we enter into, maintain, develop, and are able to negotiate appropriate terms and conditions, and enforce, commercial and other agreements;  
                
    the impact on our business, especially in our larger or fast growing markets, due to labor discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability, boycotts, social unrest, and natural disasters, including health pandemics that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our stores or cause a material disruption in our supply chain; and  
                
    deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing.  
                
    Economic conditions in the US and certain international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results.  
     As a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions. Our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit and lower home prices. Any resulting decreases in customer traffic and/or average value per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues result in sales de-leveraging which creates downward pressure on margins. There is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis.  
             
    We may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.  
     There is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. These strategic initiatives are designed to improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include:  
             
    successfully leveraging Starbucks brand portfolio outside the company-operated store base, including our increased focus on international licensed stores;  
                
    focusing on relevant product innovation and profitable new growth platforms; 
                
    continuing to accelerate the growth of our Channel Development business;  
                
    balancing disciplined global store growth and existing store renovation while meeting target store-level unit economics in a given market;  
                
    timely completing certain supply chain capacity expansion initiatives, including increased roasting capacity and construction of a new soluble products plant and a new Evolution Fresh   TM    plant; and  
                
    executing a multi-channel advertising and marketing campaign to effectively communicate our message directly to Starbucks consumers and employees.  
       11 

     Table of Contents  

We face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability.  
     The specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, service, convenience, and price, and we face significant competition in each of our channels and markets. Accordingly, we do not have leadership positions in all channels and markets. In the US, the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors in our international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. Increased competition in the US packaged coffee and tea and single-serve and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets, including from new and large entrants to this market, could adversely affect the profitability of the Channel Development segment.  
             
    We are highly dependent on the financial performance of our Americas operating segment.  
     Our financial performance is highly dependent on our Americas operating segment, as it comprised approximately   75%   of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2012. If revenue trends slow or decline, our business and financial results could be adversely affected, and because the Americas segment is relatively mature and produces the large majority of our operating cash flows, could result in reduced cash flows for funding the expansion of our international business and for returning cash to shareholders.  
             
    We are increasingly dependent on the success of our EMEA and CAP operating segments in order to achieve our growth targets.  
     Our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of our EMEA and CAP operating segments. Some or all of our international market business units ( MBUs ), which we generally define by the countries in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. The performance of these international operations may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of our large MBUs. In particular, our Japan, UK, and China MBUs account for a significant portion of the net revenue and earnings of our EMEA and CAP segments and a decline in the performance of any of these MBUs could have a material adverse impact on the results of our international operations.  
  Additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of the EMEA and CAP segments are different than those affecting our US stores and licensees. Tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in some MBUs may not embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in the US or other international markets. Occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher internationally than in the US due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. Because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to more developed operations, such as in the US. Additionally, our international joint venture partners or licensees may face capital constraints or other factors that may limit the speed at which they are able to expand and develop in a certain market.  
  Our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as:  
             
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, or requirements to transact in specific currencies;  
                
    changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets;  
                
    interpretation and application of laws and regulations;  
                
    restrictive actions of foreign or US governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, especially during periods of heightened tension between the US and such foreign governmental authorities, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors, and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership;  
                
    import or other business licensing requirements;  
                
    the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights;  
       12 

     Table of Contents  

limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions due to current or new US and international regulations;  
                
    in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving targeted levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast;  
                
    difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to distance, language and cultural differences, as well as challenges in recruiting and retaining high quality employees in local markets;  
                
    local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees;  
                
    delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, competition with locally relevant competitors or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, any of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; and 
                
    disruption in energy supplies affecting our markets.  
       
  Moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects.  
             
    Increases in the cost of high-quality   arabica   coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high-quality   arabica   coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.  
     We purchase, roast, and sell high-quality whole bean   arabica   coffee beans and related coffee products. The price of coffee is subject to significant volatility and, although coffee prices have come down from their near-record highs of 2011, they are still above the historical average price of coffee and may again increase significantly due to factors described below. The high-quality   arabica   coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the  C  price. This premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. Increases in the  C  coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality   arabica   coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. We frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base  C  coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established.  These are known as price-to-be-fixed contracts. The supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. Speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. Because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality   arabica   coffee beans could have an adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability.  
  In addition to coffee, we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. Although less material to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities including but not limited to those related to food inputs and energy, are important to our operations. Increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities could have an adverse impact on our profitability.  
    13 

     Table of Contents  

Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and failure to preserve their value could have a negative impact on our financial results.  
     We believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our corporate social responsibility programs. The Starbucks brand has been highly rated in several global brand value studies. To be successful in the future, particularly outside of US, where the Starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brands across all sales channels. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. Even isolated business incidents that erode consumer trust, such as contaminated food, recalls or privacy breaches, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. Consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we or our licensees fail to preserve the quality of our products, are perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets. Additionally, inconsistent uses of our brand and other of our intellectual property assets, as well as failure to protect our intellectual property, including from unauthorized uses of our brand or other of our intellectual property assets, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results.     
             
    Our business depends in large part on the success of our business partners and suppliers, and our brand and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third parties that are outside of our control.  
     Our business strategy, including our plans for new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, and licensee and partnership relationships, particularly in our international markets. Licensees are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded beverages, food and other products directly to customers. We provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, certain of these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including financial pressures. We believe customers expect the same quality of products and service from our licensees as they do from us and we strive to ensure customers have the same experience whether they visit a company-operated or licensed store. Any shortcoming of a Starbucks business partner, particularly an issue affecting the quality of the service experience, the safety of beverages or food or compliance with laws and regulations, may be attributed by customers to us, thus damaging our reputation and brand value and potentially affecting our results of operations.  
  Our food and beverage products are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. We rely on these suppliers and vendors to provide high quality products and to comply with applicable laws. Our ability to find qualified suppliers and vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the US. A vendor's or supplier's failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner, and comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. These issues could negatively impact our business and profitability.  
             
    Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.  
     Failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales, operating cash flows, and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. In addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance.     
    14 

     Table of Contents  

The loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results.  
     Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives, some of which involve ongoing expansion in business channels outside of our traditional company-operated store model. Our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees whom we rely on to give customers a superior in-store experience. Accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our stores, both domestically and internationally. If we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. 
             
    Adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, as well as reports of incidents involving food-borne illnesses, food tampering or food contamination, whether or not accurate, could harm our business.  
     Some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. Particularly in the US, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increased publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. While we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are coffee-free and have reduced calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products.  
  Similarly, instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply, food-borne illnesses, food tampering and food contamination, either during manufacturing, packaging or preparation, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could affect us as well. Any report linking us to the use of unclean water, food-borne illnesses, food tampering or food contamination could damage our brand value and severely hurt sales of our beverages and food products, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) or damages. Clean water is critical to the preparation of coffee and tea beverages and our ability to ensure a clean water supply to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. If customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, tampering or contamination, we could also be forced to temporarily close some stores. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses, food tampering or food contamination, even those occurring solely at the restaurants or stores of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the foodservice industry, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our stores, as well adverse results of claims or litigation, could materially harm our business and results of operations.  
             
    Effectively managing growth both in our retail store business and our Channel Development business is challenging and places significant strain on our management and employees and our operational, financial, and other resources.  
     Effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we continue to expand into new channels outside the retail store model, increase our focus on our Channel Development business, and expand into new markets internationally where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. Growth can make it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed  
    15 

     Table of Contents  

   enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience.  
             
    As we pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses.  
     We have recently completed several acquisitions and we continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures, or joint ventures with third parties. These transactions create risks such as:  
             
    disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses;  
                
    problems retaining key personnel;  
                
    operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquire or in which we invest;  
                
    the potential impairment of tangible assets, intangible assets and goodwill acquired in the acquisitions;  
                
    the difficulty of incorporating an acquired business into our business and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; and  
                
    potential unknown liabilities associated with a business we acquire or in which we invest  
     In the event of any future acquisitions, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, incur debt, or take on contingent liabilities, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business.  
             
    We rely heavily on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues.  
     We rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for administrative functions, point-of-sale processing and payment in our stores and online, management of our supply chain, Starbucks Cards, online business and various other processes and transactions. Our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of our products depends significantly on the reliability, integrity and capacity of these systems. We also rely on third party providers for some of these information technology systems and support. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause material negative impacts to our product sales, the efficiency of our operations and our financial results. Significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem. Furthermore, security breaches of our employees' or customers' private data could result in a violation of applicable U.S. and international privacy and other laws, loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and could result in litigation, potential liability and the imposition of penalties.  
             
    The effect of changes to healthcare laws in the United States may increase the number of employees who choose to participate in our healthcare plans, which may significantly increase our healthcare costs and negatively impact our financial results.  
     Since 1988 we have offered comprehensive healthcare coverage to eligible full-time and part-time employees in the US.  We currently have relatively low minimum work hour requirements for our US employees to be eligible for healthcare coverage under our healthcare plans but for various reasons many of our eligible employees choose not to participate in our plans.  However, many of such eligible employees who currently choose not to participate in our healthcare plans may find it more advantageous to do so when recent changes to healthcare laws in the United States become effective in 2014.  Such changes include potential fees to persons for not obtaining healthcare coverage and being ineligible for certain healthcare subsidies if an employee is eligible for  healthcare coverage under an employer's plan.  If a large portion of current eligible employees who  
    16 

     Table of Contents  

   currently choose not to participate in our plans choose to enroll when or after the law becomes effective, it may significantly increase our healthcare coverage costs and negatively impact on our financial results. 
             
    Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could harm our business and financial results.  
     Our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, tax rules and other regulations and requirements, including those imposed by the SEC, NASDAQ, and foreign countries, as well as applicable trade, labor, healthcare, privacy, food, anti-bribery and corruption and merchandise laws. The complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional or changing legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels, together with the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. In addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements.  

Item 1B. 
    Unresolved Staff Comments 
     None. 
    
             Item 2. 
    Properties 
     The significant properties used by Starbucks in connection with its roasting, distribution and corporate administrative operations, serving all segments, are as follows: 

We own our roasting facilities and lease the majority of our warehousing and distribution locations. As of   September 30, 2012  , Starbucks had approximatel  y 9,400 company-operated stores,   almost all of which are leased. We also lease space in various locations worldwide for regional, district and other administrative offices, training facilities and storage.  

Item 3. 
    Legal Proceedings 
     In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, Starbucks notified Kraft Foods Global, Inc. ( Kraft ) that we were discontinuing our distribution arrangement with Kraft on March 1, 2011 due to material breaches by Kraft of its obligations under the Supply and License Agreement between the Company and Kraft, dated March 29, 2004 (the  Agreement ), which defined the main distribution arrangement between the parties. Through our arrangement with Kraft, Starbucks sold a selection of Starbucks and Seattle's Best Coffee branded packaged coffees in grocery and warehouse club stores throughout the US, and to grocery stores in Canada, the UK and  
    17 

     Table of Contents  

   other European countries. Kraft managed the distribution, marketing, advertising and promotion of these products.  
  Kraft denies it has materially breached the Agreement. On November 29, 2010, Starbucks received a notice of arbitration from Kraft putting the commercial dispute between the parties into binding arbitration pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. In addition to denying it materially breached the Agreement, Kraft further alleges that if Starbucks wished to terminate the Agreement it must compensate Kraft as provided in the Agreement in an amount equal to the fair value of the Agreement, with an additional premium of up to 35% under certain circumstances. 
  On December 6, 2010, Kraft commenced a federal court action against Starbucks, entitled   Kraft Foods Global, Inc. v. Starbucks Corporation  , in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the  District Court ) seeking injunctive relief to prevent Starbucks from terminating the distribution arrangement until the parties' dispute is resolved through the arbitration proceeding. On January 28, 2011, the District Court denied Kraft's request for injunctive relief. Kraft appealed the District Court's decision to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. On February 25, 2011, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court's decision. As a result, Starbucks is in full control of our packaged coffee business as of March 1, 2011. 
  While Starbucks believes we have valid claims of material breach by Kraft under the Agreement that allowed us to terminate the Agreement and certain other relationships with Kraft without compensation to Kraft, there exists the possibility of material adverse outcomes to Starbucks in the arbitration or to resolve the matter. Although Kraft disclosed to the press and in federal court filings a $750 million offer Starbucks made to Kraft in August 2010 to avoid litigation and ensure a smooth transition of the business, the figure is not a proper basis upon which to estimate a possible outcome of the arbitration but was based upon facts and circumstances at the time. Kraft rejected the offer immediately and did not provide a counter-offer, effectively ending the discussions between the parties with regard to any payment. Moreover, the offer was made prior to our investigation of Kraft's breaches and without consideration of Kraft's continuing failure to comply with material terms of the agreements. 
  On April 2, 2012, Starbucks and Kraft exchanged expert reports regarding alleged damages on their affirmative claims. Starbucks claimed damages of up to $62.9 million from the loss of sales resulting from Kraft's failure to use commercially reasonable efforts to market Starbucks        coffee, plus attorney fees. Kraft's expert opined that the fair market value of the Agreement was $1.9 billion. After applying a 35% premium and 9% interest, Kraft claimed damages of up to $2.9 billion, plus attorney fees.  The arbitration hearing commenced on July 11, 2012 and was completed on August 3.  Starbucks presented evidence of material breaches on Kraft's part and sought nominal damages from Kraft for those breaches.  Kraft presented evidence denying it had breached the parties' Agreement and sought damages of $2.9 billion plus attorney fees.  We expect a decision from the Arbitrator in the first half of fiscal 2013. 
  At this time, Starbucks believes an unfavorable outcome with respect to the arbitration is not probable, but as noted above is reasonably possible. As also noted above, Starbucks believes we have valid claims of material breach by Kraft under the Agreement that allowed us to terminate the Agreement without compensation to Kraft. In addition, Starbucks believes Kraft's damage estimates are highly inflated and based upon faulty analysis. As a result, we cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss. Accordingly, no loss contingency has been recorded for this matter. 
  Starbucks is party to various other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, including certain employment litigation cases that have been certified as class or collective actions, but, except as noted above, is not currently a party to any legal proceeding that management believes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
    
             Item 4. 
    Mine Safety Disclosures 
       
  Not applicable. 

18 

       Table of Contents  

   PART II 
      
           Item 5. 
    Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
       
  SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
    
  MARKET INFORMATION AND DIVIDEND POLICY 
  Starbucks common stock is traded on NASDAQ, under the symbol  SBUX.  
  The following table shows the quarterly high and low sale prices per share of Starbucks common stock as reported by NASDAQ for each quarter during the last two fiscal years and the quarterly cash dividend declared per share of our common stock during the periods indicated: 

As of   November 9, 2012  , we had approximately   18,500   shareholders of record. This does not include persons whose stock is in nominee or  street name  accounts through brokers. 
  Future decisions to pay cash dividends continue to be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be dependent on our operating performance, financial condition, capital expenditure requirements, and other such factors that the Board of Directors considers relevant. 
    
    19 

     Table of Contents  

   ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  The following table provides information regarding repurchases of our common stock during the quarter ended   September 30, 2012  : 

(1) 
    Monthly information is presented by reference to our fiscal months during the fourth quarter of fiscal   2012  . 
              (2) 
    The share repurchase program is conducted under authorizations made from time to time by our Board of Directors. On   March 24, 2010   we publicly announced the authorization of up to an additional   15 million   shares, on   November 15, 2010   we publicly announced the authorization of up to an additional   10 million   shares, and on   November 3, 2011   we publicly announced the authorization of up to an additional   20 million   shares. These authorizations have no expiration date. 
     On   November 14, 2012  , our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional   25 million   shares, in addition to the   12.1 million   shares that remained available for repurchase at   September 30, 2012   under previous authorizations. As with previous authorizations, shares may be repurchased in open market transactions, including pursuant to a trading plan adopted in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The timing, manner, price and amount of repurchases will be determined in the Company's discretion and the share repurchase program may be suspended, terminated or modified at any time for any reason.  
    
    20 

     Table of Contents  

   Performance Comparison Graph 
  The following graph depicts the total return to shareholders from   September 30, 2007   through   September 30, 2012  , relative to the performance of the Standard   Poor s 500 Index, the NASDAQ Composite Index, and the Standard   Poor s 500 Consumer Discretionary Sector, a peer group that includes Starbucks. All indices shown in the graph have been reset to a base of 100 as of September 30, 2007, and assume an investment of $100 on that date and the reinvestment of dividends paid since that date. The stock price performance shown in the graph is not necessarily indicative of future price performance. 

21 

       Table of Contents  

Item 6. 
    Selected Financial Data 
       
  The following selected financial data are derived from the consolidated financial statements. The data below should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,   Risk Factors,  and the consolidated financial statements and notes. 
  Financial Information (in millions, except per share data): 

(1) 
    Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to September 30. The fiscal year ended on October 3, 2010 included 53 weeks with the 53   rd    week falling in our fourth fiscal quarter. 
         
    22 

       Table of Contents  

   Comparable Store Sales: 

(4) 
    Includes only Starbucks company-operated stores open 13 months or longer. For fiscal year 2010, comparable store sales percentages were calculated excluding the 53   rd    week. Comparable store sales exclude the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 
       
    23 

       Table of Contents  

   Store Count Data: 

(5) 
    Includes the closure of 475 licensed Seattle s Best Coffee locations in Borders Bookstores during fiscal 2011. 
              (6) 
    EMEA store data has been adjusted for the acquisition of store locations in Austria and Switzerland in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 by reclassifying historical information from licensed stores to company-operated stores, and the transfer of certain company-operated stores to licensees in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. 
       
    24 

       Table of Contents  

            Item 7. 
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
         
  General 
  Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to September 30. The fiscal year ended on October 3, 2010 included 53 weeks with the 53   rd    week falling in the fourth fiscal quarter. The fiscal years ended on October 2, 2011 and September 30, 2012 both included 52 weeks. Comparable store sales percentages for fiscal 2010 are calculated excluding the 53   rd    week. All references to store counts, including data for new store openings, are reported net of related store closures, unless otherwise noted. 
    
    Financial Highlights 
             
    Total net revenues increased   14%   to   $13.3 billion   in fiscal   2012   compared to   $11.7 billion   in fiscal   2011  . The increase was due primarily to a   7%   increase in global comparable store sales,   50%   revenue growth in Channel Development, and    20%   growth in licensed stores revenue. The comparable store sales growth in company-operated stores was comprised of a   6%   increase in the number of transactions and a   1%   increase in average ticket. 
                
    Consolidated operating income was   $2.0 billion   in fiscal   2012   compared to   $1.7 billion   in fiscal   2011   and operating margin increased to   15.0%   compared to   14.8%   in fiscal   2011  . The operating margin expansion was driven by increased sales leverage and the absence of charges in fiscal 2012 related to the Seattle's Best Coffee store closures in Border's bookstores, partially offset by higher commodity costs.  
                
    EPS for fiscal   2012   was   $1.79  , compared to EPS of   $1.62   reported in fiscal   2011  , with the increase driven by the improved sales leverage, partially offset by the impact of higher commodity costs in fiscal 2012 and certain gains recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, including a gain from a fair market value adjustment resulting from the acquisition of the remaining ownership interest in our joint venture in Switzerland and Austria as well as a gain on the sale of corporate real estate.  
                
    Cash flow from operations was   $1.8 billion   in fiscal   2012   compared to   $1.6 billion   in fiscal   2011  . Capital expenditures were approximately   $856 million   in fiscal   2012   compared to   $532 million   in fiscal   2011  . Available operating cash flow after capital expenditures during fiscal   2012   was directed at returning approximately   $1.1 billion   of cash to our shareholders via share repurchases and dividends. 
       
    Overview 
  Starbucks results for fiscal 2012 reflect the strength of our global business model. We continue to execute on our new regional operating model which we implemented at the beginning of fiscal 2012. We now have four reportable operating segments: Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa ("EMEA"); China / Asia Pacific ("CAP") and Channel Development. Each segment is managed by an operating segment president.  
  Total net revenues increased 14% to $13.3 billion driven by global comparable store sales growth of   7%   and a 50% increase in Channel Development revenue. This growth drove increased sales leverage and resulted in higher operating margin and net earnings compared to fiscal 2011. This helped mitigate the impact of higher commodity costs, mostly coffee, which negatively impacted operating income by approximately $214 million for the year, equivalent to approximately 160 basis points of impact on operating margin.  
  Our Americas business continued its strong momentum and contributed 75% of total net revenues in fiscal 2012. The revenue growth for the year was driven by an 8% increase in comparable store sales, comprised of a 6% increase in traffic and a 2% increase in average ticket. This sales growth, combined with a continued focus on operational efficiencies, drove increased sales leverage that offset the impact of higher commodity costs. Looking forward, we expect to continue driving sales growth and profitability through continued store efficiency efforts, new store development, and expanding our pipeline of new product offerings to increase revenues throughout all dayparts. 
    25 

     Table of Contents  

   EMEA segment results reflect both the investments we have begun making as part of our transformation plan for the region, as well as the macro-economic headwinds we, and others, face there. This resulted in flat comparable store sales and operating income of   $10 million   for fiscal 2012, a decrease of $30 million compared to fiscal 2011. We started the year by putting in place a new leadership team that is focused on increasing the Starbucks brand presence, health and relevancy across the region, improving the profitability of the existing store base through a focus on revenue growth and operating costs, and identifying opportunities for new store growth through licensing arrangements. We expect the investments we are making as part of this transformation effort will result in improved operating performance as we progress on our plan towards mid-teens operating margin; however, this turnaround will take time to gain traction. 
  CAP segment revenues increased   31%  , driven by new store growth and comparable store sales of   15%  .  This segment continues to grow rapidly and is becoming a more meaningful contributor to overall company profitability. We expect continued growth will be from a mix of new store openings and comparable store sales growth. China continues to be a significant growth opportunity for us as we remain on track to reach our goal of 1,500 stores in 2015. In addition, other key markets such as Japan, Korea, Thailand, Singapore and Indonesia all continue to be profitable and provide a solid foundation for continued growth in the region. 
  Our Channel Development segment represents another important, profitable growth opportunity for us. Channel Development results were a solid contributor to overall revenue growth with a   50%   increase in revenues primarily due to sales of Starbucks and Tazo branded K-Cup  portion packs which launched at the start of fiscal 2012 and our transition to a direct distribution model for packaged coffee, which occurred during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. High commodity costs continued to be a significant drag on operating margin; however, despite these higher costs, operating income increased   $61 million   to   $349 million   for fiscal 2012. We expect continued innovation and new product offerings such as the Verismo  system by Starbucks and Starbucks Refreshers  beverages will drive further growth and profitability within this segment over time. 
    
  Fiscal 2013   The View Ahead 
  For fiscal year 2013, we expect moderate revenue growth driven by mid single-digit increased comparable store sales, new store openings and strong growth in the Channel Development business. Licensed stores will comprise between one-half and two-thirds of new store openings. 
  We expect continued robust consolidated operating margin and EPS improvement compared to fiscal 2012, reflecting the strength of our global business and the pipeline of profitable growth initiatives.  
  We expect increased capital expenditures in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012, reflecting additional investments in store renovations, new store growth and manufacturing capacity. 
    
  Operating Segment Overview 
  Starbucks has four reportable operating segments: Americas, Europe, Middle East, and Africa ("EMEA"), China and Asia Pacific ("CAP") and Channel Development. Seattle s Best Coffee is reported in  Other,  along with Evolution Fresh, Digital Ventures and unallocated corporate expenses that pertain to corporate administrative functions that support our operating segments but are not specifically attributable to or managed by any segment and are not included in the reported financial results of the operating segments. 
  The Americas, EMEA and CAP segments include company-operated stores and licensed stores. Licensed stores generally have a higher operating margin than company-operated stores. Under the licensed model, Starbucks receives a reduced share of the total store revenues, but this is more than offset by the reduction in its share of costs as these are primarily incurred by the licensee. The EMEA and CAP segments have a higher relative share of licensed stores versus company-operated stores compared to the Americas segment; however, the Americas segment has been operating significantly longer than the other segments and has developed deeper awareness of, and attachment to, the Starbucks brand and stores among its customer base. As a result, the more mature Americas segment has significantly more stores and higher total revenues than the other segments. Average sales per store are also higher in the Americas due to various factors including length of time in market and local income levels.  
    26 

     Table of Contents  

   Starbucks store base in EMEA and CAP continues to expand and we continue to focus on achieving sustainable growth from established international markets while at the same time investing in emerging markets, such as China. Occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher in certain international markets than in the Americas segment due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. Because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to the Americas segment. International markets in the early stages of development require a more extensive support organization, relative to the current levels of revenue and operating income, than the Americas. 
  The Channel Development segment includes packaged coffee and tea, a variety of ready-to-drink beverages, single-serve coffee and tea products and other branded product operations worldwide, as well as the US foodservice business. In prior years through the first several months of fiscal 2011, we sold a selection of Starbucks and Seattle s Best Coffee branded packaged coffees and Tazo        teas in grocery and warehouse club stores throughout the US and to grocery stores in Canada, the UK and other European countries through a distribution arrangement with Kraft Foods Global, Inc. Kraft managed the distribution, marketing, advertising and promotion of these products as a part of that arrangement. During fiscal 2011, we successfully transitioned these businesses including the marketing, advertising, and promotion of these products, from our previous distribution arrangement with Kraft and began selling these products directly to the grocery and warehouse club stores. Our Channel Development segment also includes ready-to-drink beverages, which are primarily manufactured and distributed through The North American Coffee Partnership, a joint venture with the Pepsi-Cola Company. The proportionate share of the results of the joint venture is included, on a net basis, in income from equity investees on the consolidated statements of earnings. The US foodservice business sells coffee and other related products to institutional foodservice companies with the majority of its sales through national broad-line distribution networks. The Channel Development segment reflects a modest cost structure and a resulting higher operating margin, compared to the other reporting segments, which consist primarily of retail stores. 
    
    Acquisitions 
  See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in this 10-K. 
    
    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   FISCAL   2012   COMPARED TO FISCAL   2011    
    
  Consolidated results of operations (in millions): 
  Revenues 

Consolidated net revenues were $  13.3 billion   for fiscal   2012  , an increase of   13.7%  , or $  1.6 billion   over fiscal   2011  , primarily due to increased revenues from company-operated stores (contributing $902 million), driven by an increase in comparable store sales (approximately 7%, or $680 million). Also contributing to the increase were  
    27 

     Table of Contents  

   incremental revenues from net new company-operated store openings over the past 12 months (approximately $184 million). 
    
  Licensed store revenues contributed $203 million to the increase in total net revenues in fiscal 2012, primarily due to higher product sales to and royalty revenues from our licensees, resulting from improved comparable store sales and the opening of 665 net new licensed stores over the past 12 months. 
  CPG, foodservice and other revenues increased $494 million, primarily due to sales of Starbucks and Tazo branded K-Cup        portion packs launched in the CPG channel on November 1, 2011 (approximately $232 million). The benefit of recognizing full revenue from packaged coffee and tea under the direct distribution model (approximately $78 million) and an increase in foodservice revenues (approximately $50 million) also contributed. 
    
  Operating Expenses 

Cost of sales including occupancy costs as a percentage of total net revenues increased 170 basis points, driven by increased commodity costs (approximately 160 basis points), primarily due to higher coffee costs. 
  Store operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues decreased 120 basis points, due to increased Channel Development and licensed store revenues. Store operating expenses as a percent of company-operated store revenues decreased 10 basis points due to increased sales leverage. 
    
  Other operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues decreased 20 basis points. As a percentage of net revenues excluding company-operated store revenues, other operating expenses decreased 350 basis points. This decrease was primarily driven by increased sales leverage (approximately 150 basis points), the absence of charges in fiscal 2012 related to the Seattle s Best Coffee store closures in Borders bookstores (approximately 80 basis points) and a shift in the timing of marketing spend (approximately 60 basis points).  
  Income from equity investees increased $37.0 million, primarily due to an increase in income from our North American Coffee Partnership (approximately $13 million), Japan (approximately $11 million) and Shanghai (approximately $10 million) joint venture operations. 
  The combination of these changes, along with increased sales leverage on depreciation and amortization (approximately 40 basis points) and general and administrative expenses (approximately 40 basis points), resulted in an increase in operating margin of 20 basis points over fiscal 2011. 
    
    28 

     Table of Contents  

   Other Income and Expenses 

Net interest income and other decreased $21 million over the prior year, primarily due to the absence of the gain recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 resulting from the acquisition of the remaining interest in our previous joint venture operations in Switzerland and Austria (approximately $55 million), partially offset by the recognition of additional income associated with unredeemed gifts cards in the second quarter of fiscal 2012 (approximately $29 million), following a court ruling related to state unclaimed property laws. 
    
  Income taxes for the fiscal year ended 2012 resulted in an effective tax rate of 32.8% compared to 31.1% for fiscal year 2011.  The rate increased in fiscal year 2012 primarily due to tax benefits recognized in fiscal 2011 from the Switzerland and Austria transaction and the release of foreign valuation allowances. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2013 is expected to be approximately 33%. 
    
    29 

     Table of Contents  

   Segment Information 
  Segment information is prepared on the same basis that our management reviews financial information for operational decision-making purposes. The following tables summarize the results of operations by segment   (in millions)  : 
  Americas 

Revenues 
  Americas total net revenues for fiscal 2012 increased 10%, or $871 million, primarily due to increased revenues from company-operated stores (contributing $712 million), driven by an increase in comparable store sales (approximately 8%, or $626 million). Also contributing to the increase were incremental revenues from net new company-operated store openings over the past 12 months (approximately $100 million).  
    
  Licensed store revenues also contributed to the increase in total net revenues with an increase of $149 million in fiscal 2012 over the prior year period, primarily due to higher product sales to and royalty revenues from our licensees, resulting from improved comparable store sales and the opening of 270 net new licensed stores over the past 12 months. 
  Operating Expenses 
  Cost of sales including occupancy costs as a percentage of total net revenues increased 30 basis points, primarily driven by higher commodity costs (approximately 110 basis points), mainly coffee, partially offset by increased sales leverage on occupancy costs (approximately 70 basis points). 
  Store operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues decreased 60 basis points. Increased licensed store revenues contributed approximately 30 basis points of the decrease. Store operating expenses as a percentage of company-operated store revenues decreased 30 basis points, primarily due to increased sales leverage (approximately 70 basis points), partially offset by higher debit card transaction fees (approximately 20 basis points). 
    
    30 

     Table of Contents  

   Other operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues was flat over prior year. As a percentage of net revenues excluding company-operated store revenues, other operating expenses decreased 100 basis points, primarily driven by increased sales leverage.  
  The combination of these changes, along with increased sales leverage on depreciation and amortization expense (approximately 40 basis points), resulted in an increase in operating margin of 60 basis points over fiscal 2011. 

EMEA 

Revenues 
  EMEA total net revenues for fiscal 2012 increased 9%, or $95 million, primarily driven by increased revenues from company-operated stores (contributing $63 million), due to the acquisition of the remaining interest in our previous joint venture operations in Switzerland and Austria in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 (approximately $80 million), partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations (approximately $33 million).  
  An increase in licensed store revenues of $27 million also contributed to the increase in total net revenues, primarily due to higher product sales to and royalty revenues from our licensees, resulting from the opening of 101 net new licensed stores over the past 12 months. 
  Operating Expenses 
  Cost of sales including occupancy costs as a percentage of total net revenues increased 160 basis points, primarily driven by higher costs related to the transition to a consolidated food and dairy distribution model in the UK that began in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 (approximately 180 basis points). These costs are expected to decline over time as the full benefits of the transition are realized. Also contributing to the decrease were costs related to store portfolio optimization initiatives occurring in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 (approximately 60 basis points), partially offset by increased sales leverage on occupancy costs. 
  Store operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues increased 120 basis points. Store operating expenses as a percentage of company-operated store revenues increased 220 basis points, primarily driven by asset impairments related to underperforming stores (approximately 140 basis points). Also contributing to the decrease were costs related to store portfolio optimization initiatives occurring in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 (approximately 40 basis points).  
    31 

     Table of Contents  

   Other operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues decreased 60 basis points. Excluding the impact of company-operated store revenues, other operating expenses decreased 640 basis points, primarily driven by operational efficiencies. 
  Income from equity investees declined to $0.3 million in fiscal 2012, due to the acquisition of the remaining interest in our previous joint venture operations in Switzerland and Austria. 
  The above changes contributed to a decrease in operating margin of 290 basis points over the prior year.  

China / Asia Pacific 

Revenues 
  China / Asia Pacific total net revenues for fiscal 2012 increased 31%, or $169 million, primarily driven by increased revenues from company-operated stores (contributing $128 million). The increase in company-operated store revenues was primarily due to the opening of 154 net new stores over the past 12 months (approximately $71 million) and an increase in comparable store sales (approximately 15%, or $53 million).  
  Also contributing to the increase in revenues was an increase in licensed store revenues of $41 million, due to increased royalty revenues from and product sales to licensees, primarily driven by 294 net new licensed store openings over the past 12 months. 
  Operating Expenses 
  Cost of sales including occupancy costs as a percentage of total net revenues decreased 80 basis points primarily driven by the accelerated growth of company-operated stores, which contribute a higher gross margin, in China (approximately 140 basis points), partially offset by increased commodity costs (approximately 120 basis points), mainly higher coffee costs. 
  Store operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues increased 140 basis points. Store operating expenses as a percentage of company-operated store revenues increased 130 basis points, primarily driven by increased costs associated with the expansion efforts of company-operated stores in mainland China. 
    32 

     Table of Contents  

   Income from equity investees increased $30 million, primarily driven by an increase in income from our Japan (approximately $11 million) and Shanghai (approximately $10 million) joint venture operations. 
  The combination of these changes, along with increased sales leverage on depreciation and amortization (approximately 10 basis points) and general and administrative expenses (approximately 70 basis points), resulted in an increase in operating margin of 10 basis points over fiscal 2011. 
    
  Channel Development 

Revenues 
  Channel Development total net revenues for fiscal 2012 increased 50%, or $432 million, primarily due to sales of Starbucks and Tazo branded K-Cup        portion packs (approximately $232 million). The benefit of recognizing full revenue from packaged coffee and tea sales under the direct distribution model through the second quarter of fiscal 2012 (approximately $70 million) and increased foodservice revenues (approximately $33 million) also contributed.  
  Operating Expenses 
  Cost of sales as a percentage of total net revenues increased 730 basis points, primarily due to increased commodity costs (approximately 570 basis points), mainly coffee, and a shift in our product mix driven by the introduction of Starbucks and Tazo       branded K-Cup        portion packs (approximately 140 basis points). 
  Other operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues decreased 280 basis points, primarily due to increased sales leverage. 
  Income from equity investees increased $10 million over the prior year period, driven by increased income from our North American Coffee Partnership joint venture. Income from equity investees declined as a percentage of total net revenues (approximately 220 basis points) primarily due to the growth in segment revenues. 
  The combination of these changes resulted in a decrease in operating margin of 640 basis points over fiscal 2011. 
    
    33 

     Table of Contents  

   Other 

Other includes operating results from Seattle s Best Coffee, Evolution Fresh, and Digital Ventures, as well as expenses pertaining to corporate administrative functions that support our operating segments but are not specifically attributable to, or managed by, any segment and are not included in the reported financial results of the operating segments. 
  Other total net revenues increased $33 million, primarily due to incremental revenues from Evolution Fresh, which was acquired during the first quarter of fiscal 2012. 
  Total operating expenses increased $60 million, primarily due to increased cost of sales resulting from higher commodity costs, primarily coffee, and higher general and administrative expenses to support the growth of the business. 
    
    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   FISCAL 2011 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2010 
    
  Consolidated results of operations (in millions): 
  Revenues 

Consolidated net revenues were   $11.7 billion   for fiscal 2011, an increase of   9%  , or   $993 million   over fiscal 2010. The increase was primarily due to an increase in company-operated store revenues driven by an 8% increase in global comparable stores sales (contributing approximately $672 million). The increase in comparable store sales was due to a 6% increase in number of transactions (contributing approximately $499 million) and a 2% increase in average value per transaction (contributing approximately $173 million). Also contributing to the increase in  
    34 

     Table of Contents  

   total net revenues was favorable foreign currency translation (approximately $126 million) resulting from a weakening of the US dollar relative to foreign currencies and an increase in licensed store revenues (approximately $106 million). This increase was partially offset by the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2010 (approximately $207 million). 
    
  Operating Expenses 

Cost of sales including occupancy costs as a percentage of total net revenues increased 80 basis points. The increase was primarily due to higher commodity costs (approximately 220 basis points), mainly driven by increased coffee costs. Partially offsetting this increase was lower occupancy costs as a percentage of total net revenues (approximately 70 basis points), driven by increased sales leverage. 
  Store operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues decreased 170 basis points primarily due to increased sales leverage. 
  Other operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues increased 80 basis points primarily due to higher expenses to support the direct distribution model for packaged coffee and tea (approximately 40 basis points) and the impairment of certain assets in our Seattle s Best Coffee business associated with the Borders bankruptcy in April 2011 (approximately 20 basis points). 
  The above changes contributed to an overall increase in operating margin of 150 basis points for fiscal 2011. Considering the impact from all line items, the primary drivers for the increase in operating margin for fiscal 2011 were increased sales leverage (approximately 300 basis points), the absence of restructuring charges in the current year (approximately 50 basis points) and the gain on the sale of corporate real estate in fiscal 2011 (approximately 30 basis points). These increases were partially offset by higher commodity costs (approximately 220 basis points). 
    
    35 

     Table of Contents  

   Other Income and Expenses 

Net interest income and other increased   $66 million   over the prior year. The increase primarily resulted from the gain recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 related to our acquisition of the remaining ownership interest in our joint venture operations in Switzerland and Austria (approximately $55 million). 
  Income taxes for the fiscal year ended 2011 resulted in an effective tax rate of   31.1%   compared to   34.0%   for fiscal 2010. The lower rate in fiscal 2011 was primarily due to a benefit from the Switzerland and Austria transaction and to an increase in income in foreign jurisdictions having lower tax rates.  
    
  Segment Information 
  The following tables summarize our results of operations by segment for fiscal 2011 and 2010 (  in millions  ). 
    
  Americas 

36 

     Table of Contents  

   Revenues 
  Americas total net revenues for fiscal 2011 increased   7%  , or   $577 million  . The increase was primarily driven by an increase in comparable store sales in our company-operated stores of 8% (contributing approximately $590 million), driven by a 5% increase in number of transactions and a 2% increase in average value per transaction.  Also contributing to the increase was favorable foreign currency translation resulting from the weakening of the US dollar (approximately $51 million), primarily in relation to the Canadian dollar, and an increase in product sales to and royalty revenues from licensees (approximately $73 million), primarily due to improved comparable store sales and net new store openings.  These increases were partially offset by the absence of the extra week in fiscal 2010 (approximately $162 million). 
    
  Operating Expenses 
  Cost of sales including occupancy costs as a percentage of total net revenues increased 40 basis points over the prior year. The increase was primarily due to higher commodity costs (approximately 140 basis points), mainly coffee, partially offset by increased sales leverage on occupancy costs (approximately 60 basis points). 
  Store operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues decreased 120 basis points primarily due to increased sales leverage. 
  Also contributing to the increase in operating margin was the absence of restructuring charges in fiscal 2011 (approximately 30 basis points) and increased sales leverage resulting in lower depreciation and amortization expenses as a percentage of total net revenues (contributing 30 basis points). The combination of these changes resulted in an overall increase in operating margin of 140 basis points for fiscal 2011.   

EMEA 

Revenues 
  EMEA total net revenues for fiscal 2011 increased   10%  , or   $93 million  . The increase was primarily driven by favorable foreign currency translation resulting from the weakening of the US dollar (approximately $35 million), primarily in relation to the British pound, the acquisition of the remaining interest in our previous joint venture operations in Switzerland and Austria in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 (approximately $28 million), and an  
    37 

     Table of Contents  

   increase in comparable store sales in our company-operated stores of 3% (approximately $24 million).  An increase in royalty revenues from and product sales to licensees also contributed (approximately $20 million), due to improved comparable store sales and net new store openings.  These increases were partially offset by the absence of the extra week in fiscal 2010 (approximately $18 million). 
    
  Operating Expenses 
  Cost of sales including occupancy costs as a percentage of total net revenues increased by 120 basis points compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily driven by higher higher commodity costs (approximately 160 basis points), mainly coffee, partially offset by increased sales leverage on occupancy costs (approximately 50 basis points). 
  Store operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues decreased 270 basis points. Increased licensed stores revenues contributed approximately 40 basis points to the decrease. Store operating expenses as a percentage of company-operated store revenues decreased 230 basis points primarily due to fewer impairment charges in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 (approximately 110 basis points), lower equipment maintenance costs (approximately 60 basis points) and increased sales leverage on salaries and benefits (approximately 40 basis).   
  Also contributing to the increase in operating margin was the absence of restructuring charges in fiscal 2011 (approximately 260 basis points). The combination of these changes resulted in an overall increase in operating margin of 440 basis points for fiscal 2011.   

China / Asia Pacific 

Revenues 
  China / Asia Pacific total net revenues for fiscal 2011 increased   36%  , or   $145 million  . The increase was primarily driven by an increase in comparable store sales in our company-operated stores of 22% (contributing approximately $58 million), driven by a 20% increase in number of transactions and a 2% increase in average value per transaction.  Also contributing to the increase in total net revenues was favorable foreign currency translation resulting from the weakening of the US dollar (approximately $40 million), the opening of 73 net new company-operated stores in the past 12 months (approximately $40 million), and an increase in royalty revenues  
    38 

     Table of Contents  

   from and product sales to licensees (approximately $17 million), due to improved comparable store sales and net new store openings.  These increases were partially offset by the absence of the extra week in fiscal 2010 (approximately $9 million). 
    
  Operating Expenses 
  Cost of sales including occupancy costs as a percentage of total net revenues decreased by 130 basis points compared to the prior year, primarily due to increased sales leverage on occupancy costs. 
  Store operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues decreased 60 basis points. Excluding the impact of licensed store revenues, store operating expenses decreased 230 basis points as a percent of company-operated store revenues in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010, primarily driven by lower compensation costs (approximately 210 basis points) as a percentage of total net revenues. 
  Other operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues decreased 90 basis points. Increased company-operated store revenues contributed approximately 30 basis points to the decrease.  Other operating expenses as a percentage of licensed store revenues decreased 60 basis points, primarily driven by lower compensation related costs (approximately 140 basis points), partially offset by increasing costs related to our expansion efforts into key emerging markets, primarily China.  
  Income from equity investees increased $20 million in fiscal 2011, driven by improved performance in our joint venture operations, primarily in Japan, Shanghai and Taiwan.  
  The changes in the above line items combined with increased sales leverage on general and administrative expenses (approximately 70 basis points) and depreciation and amortization (approximately 60 basis points) contributed to an overall increase in operating margin of 320 basis points in fiscal 2011. 

Channel Development 

Revenues 
  Total Channel Development net revenues for fiscal 2011 increased   22%  , or   $153 million  . The increase was primarily due to the benefit of recognizing full revenue from packaged coffee and tea sales under the direct distribution model for the majority of the year (approximately $70 million). On March 1, 2011, we successfully transitioned to a direct distribution model from our previous distribution arrangement with Kraft for the sale of packaged Starbucks        and Seattle s Best Coffee        coffee products in grocery and warehouse club stores throughout the US, and to grocery stores in Canada, the UK and other European countries. We successfully transitioned the Tazo        tea business to a direct distribution model in January 2011. Also contributing to the increase were improved revenues from US foodservice (approximately $26 million) and the expanded distribution of Starbucks VIA         
    39 

     Table of Contents  

   Ready Brew in fiscal 2011 (approximately $24 million), partially offset by the extra week in fiscal 2010 (approximately $16 million). 
    
  Operating Expenses 
  Operating margin decreased 490 basis points over the prior year primarily due to increased commodity costs (approximately 830 basis points), driven by higher coffee costs. Partially offsetting the increase in commodity costs was the benefit of price increases (approximately 200 basis points) and lower marketing expenses for Starbucks VIA        Ready Brew in 2011 (approximately 120 basis points). 

Other 

Substantially all net revenues in Other are generated from the Seattle s Best Coffee operating segment. The increase in revenues for Seattle s Best Coffee was primarily due to the recognition of a full year of sales to national accounts added in the latter part of fiscal 2010 as well as new accounts added during fiscal 2011(approximately $20 million). This was partially offset by the impact of the closure of the Seattle s Best Coffee locations in Borders Bookstores. 
  Total operating expenses in fiscal 2011 increased   15%  , or   $109 million  . This increase is the result of an increase of $59 million in other operating expenses primarily due to the impairment of certain assets in our Seattle s Best Coffee business associated with the Borders bankruptcy in April 2011 and an increase in marketing expenses. Also contributing was a $26 million increase in general and administrative expenses due to higher corporate expenses to support growth initiatives and higher donations to the Starbucks Foundation. These increases in operating expenses were partially offset by a gain on the sale of corporate real estate in fiscal 2011 (approximately $30 million). 
    
    40 

       Table of Contents  

   SUMMARIZED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (unaudited; in millions, except EPS) 

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
    
  Investment Overview 
  Starbucks cash and short-term investments were   $2.0 billion   and   $2.1 billion   as of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , respectively. As of   September 30, 2012  , approximately   $703 million   of cash was held in foreign subsidiaries. Of our cash held in foreign subsidiaries,   $343 million   is denominated in the US dollar. We actively manage our cash and short-term investments in order to internally fund operating needs domestically and internationally, make scheduled interest and principal payments on our borrowings, and return cash to shareholders through common stock cash dividend payments and share repurchases. Our short-term investments consisted predominantly of US Treasury securities, commercial paper, corporate bonds, and US Agency securities. Also included in our short-term investment portfolio are certificates of deposit placed through an account registry service, with maturities ranging from 91 days to one year. The principal amounts of the individual certificates of deposit do not exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation limits. Our portfolio of long-term available for sale securities consists predominantly of high investment-grade corporate bonds, diversified among industries and individual issuers, as well as certificates of deposits with maturities greater than 1 year. 
    
  Borrowing capacity 
  In November 2010, we replaced our previous credit facility with a new $500 million unsecured credit facility ("the credit facility ) with various banks, of which $100 million may be used for issuances of letters of credit. The credit facility is available for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes, including acquisitions and share repurchases and is currently set to mature in November 2014. Starbucks has the option, subject to negotiation and agreement with the related banks, to increase the maximum commitment amount by an additional $500 million. The interest rate for any borrowings under the credit facility, based on Starbucks current ratings and fixed charge coverage ratio, is   0.85%   over LIBOR. The specific spread over LIBOR will depend upon our long-term credit ratings assigned by Moody s and Standard   Poor s rating agencies and our fixed charge coverage ratio. The credit facility contains provisions requiring us to maintain compliance with certain covenants, including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, which measures our ability to cover financing expenses. As of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , we were in compliance with each of these covenants. 
  Under our commercial paper program we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes, up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $500 million, with individual maturities that may vary, but not  
    41 

     Table of Contents  

   exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The program is backstopped by the credit facility and the combined borrowing limit is $500 million for the commercial paper program and the credit facility. Starbucks may issue commercial paper from time to time, and the proceeds of the commercial paper financing may be used for working capital needs, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes, including acquisitions and share repurchases. During fiscal   2012   and fiscal   2011  , there were no borrowings under the credit facility or commercial paper programs. As of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , a total of   $18 million   and   $17 million  , respectively, in letters of credit were outstanding under the revolving credit facility. 
  The   $550 million   of 10-year   6.25%   Senior Notes also require us to maintain compliance with certain covenants, including limits on future liens and sale and leaseback transactions on certain material properties. As of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , we were in compliance with each of these covenants. 
    
  Use of Cash 
  We expect to use our cash and short-term investments, including any potential future borrowings under the credit facility and commercial paper program, to invest in our core businesses, including new product innovations and related marketing support, as well as other new business opportunities related to our core businesses. We believe that future cash flows generated from operations and existing cash and short-term investments both domestically and internationally will be sufficient to finance capital requirements for our core businesses in those respective markets as well as shareholder distributions for the foreseeable future. 
  We consider the majority of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and equity investees as of September 30, 2012 to be indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no US income and foreign withholding taxes have been provided on such earnings. We have not, nor do we anticipate the need to, repatriate funds to the US to satisfy domestic liquidity needs; however, in the event that we need to repatriate all or a portion of our foreign cash to the US we would be subject to additional US income taxes, which could be material. We do not believe it is practical to calculate the potential tax impact of repatriation, as there is a significant amount of uncertainty around the calculation, including the availability and amount of foreign tax credits at the time of repatriation, tax rates in effect, and other indirect tax consequences associated with repatriation. 
  We may use our available cash resources to make proportionate capital contributions to our equity method and cost method investees. We may also seek strategic acquisitions to leverage existing capabilities and further build our business in support of our growth agenda. Acquisitions may include increasing our ownership interests in our equity method and cost method investees. Any decisions to increase such ownership interests will be driven by valuation and fit with our ownership strategy. Significant new joint ventures, acquisitions and/or other new business opportunities may require additional outside funding. 
  As discussed further in Note 15, we are in arbitration with Kraft Foods Global, Inc. ( Kraft ) for a commercial dispute relating to a distribution agreement we previously held with Kraft. As a part of those proceedings Kraft has claimed damages inclusive of a premium and interest for terminating the arrangement. We believe we have valid claims of material breach by Kraft under the Agreement. We also believe Kraft s claim is highly inflated and based upon faulty analysis. However, should the arbitration result in an unfavorable outcome, we believe we have adequate liquidity. 
  Other than normal operating expenses, cash requirements for fiscal 2013 are expected to consist primarily of capital expenditures for remodeling and refurbishment of, and equipment upgrades for, existing company-operated stores; systems and technology investments in the stores and in the support infrastructure; new company-operated stores; and additional investments in manufacturing capacity. Total capital expenditures for fiscal 2013 are expected to be approximately $1.2 billion. 
  During the first three quarters of fiscal   2011  , we declared and paid a cash dividend to shareholders of   $0.13   per share. In the fourth quarter of fiscal   2011   and the first three quarters of fiscal   2012   we declared and paid a cash dividend of   $0.17   per share. Cash dividends paid in fiscal   2012   and   2011   totaled   $513 million   and   $390 million  , respectively. In the fourth quarter, we declared a cash dividend of   $0.21   per share to be paid on   November 30, 2012   with an expected payout of   $157 million  . 
    42 

     Table of Contents  

   During fiscal years   2012   and   2011  , we repurchased   12 million   and   16 million   shares of common stock (  $593 million   and   $556 million  , respectively) under share repurchase authorizations. The number of remaining shares authorized for repurchase at   September 30, 2012   totaled   12.1 million  . On   November 14, 2012  , our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional   25 million   shares under our share repurchase program. 
    
  Cash Flows 
  Cash   provided   by operating activities was   $1.8 billion   for fiscal year   2012  , compared to   $1.6 billion   for fiscal year   2011  . The slight increase was primarily attributable to an increase in net earnings in fiscal 2012. This was partially offset by a net increase in our working capital accounts, due primarily to increased payments on accounts payable.  
  Cash   used   by investing activities totaled   $1.0 billion   for fiscal years 2012 and   2011  . Net cash proceeds on investment maturities were offset by an increase in capital expenditures, primarily for remodeling and renovating existing company-operated stores and opening new retail stores, the absence of cash proceeds from the sale of corporate real estate in the prior year and cash paid to acquire Evolution Fresh and Bay Bread, LLC (doing business as La Boulange) in the first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2012, respectively. 
  Cash   used   by financing activities for fiscal year   2012   totaled   $746 million  , compared to   $608 million   for fiscal year   2011  . The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash returned to shareholders through higher dividend payments in fiscal   2012  . 
    
  The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and borrowings as of   September 30, 2012  , and the timing and effect that such commitments are expected to have on our liquidity and capital requirements in future periods (  in millions  ): 

(1) 
    Income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions were excluded as we are not able to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of related future payments. As of   September 30, 2012  , we had   $78.4 million   of gross unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions. 
              (2) 
    Amounts include the direct lease obligations, excluding any taxes, insurance and other related expenses. 
              (3) 
    Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on Starbucks and that specify all significant terms. Green coffee purchase commitments comprise   94%   of total purchase obligations. 
              (4) 
    Debt amounts include principal maturities and scheduled interest payments on our long-term debt. 
              (5) 
    Other obligations include other long-term liabilities primarily consisting of asset retirement obligations, capital lease obligations and hedging instruments. 
     Starbucks currently expects to fund these commitments with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business. 
    
    43 

       Table of Contents  

   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  Off-balance sheet arrangements relate to operating lease and purchase commitments detailed in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements in this 10-K. 

COMMODITY PRICES, AVAILABILITY AND GENERAL RISK CONDITIONS 
  Commodity price risk represents Starbucks primary market risk, generated by our purchases of green coffee and dairy products, among other things. We purchase, roast and sell high-quality whole bean   arabica   coffee and related products and risk arises from the price volatility of green coffee. In addition to coffee, we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products to support the needs of our company-operated stores. The price and availability of these commodities directly impacts our results of operations and can be expected to impact our future results of operations. For additional details see Product Supply in Item 1, as well as Risk Factors in Item 1A of this 10-K. 

FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
  Market risk is defined as the risk of losses due to changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, equity security prices, and interest rates. We manage our exposure to various market-based risks according to a market price risk management policy. Under this policy, market-based risks are quantified and evaluated for potential mitigation strategies, such as entering into hedging transactions. The market price risk management policy governs how hedging instruments may be used to mitigate risk. Risk limits are set annually and prohibit speculative trading activity. We also monitor and limit the amount of associated counterparty credit risk. In general, hedging instruments do not have maturities in excess of five years. 
  The sensitivity analyses disclosed below provide only a limited, point-in-time view of the market risk of the financial instruments discussed. The actual impact of the respective underlying rates and price changes on the financial instruments may differ significantly from those shown in the sensitivity analyses. 
    
  Commodity Price Risk 
  We purchase commodity inputs, including coffee, dairy products and diesel that are used in our operations and are subject to price fluctuations that impact our financial results. In addition to fixed-price and price-to-be-fixed contracts for coffee purchases, we have entered into commodity hedges to manage commodity price risk using financial derivative instruments.  
  The following table summarizes the potential impact as of   September 30, 2012   to Starbucks future net earnings and other comprehensive income ( OCI ) from changes in commodity prices. The information provided below relates only to the hedging instruments and does not represent the corresponding changes in the underlying hedged items   (in millions)  :  
                                               
    Increase/(Decrease) to Net Earnings 
      
    Increase/(Decrease) to OCI 
        
    10% Increase  in 
  Underlying Rate 
      
    10% Decrease  in 
  Underlying Rate 
      
    10% Increase  in 
  Underlying Rate 
      
    10% Decrease  in 
  Underlying Rate 
      Commodity hedges 
    $ 
    10 

$ 
    (10 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    13 

$ 
    (13 
    ) 

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 
  The majority of our revenue, expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in US dollars. However, because a portion of our operations consists of activities outside of the US, we have transactions in other currencies, primarily the Canadian dollar, British pound, euro, and Japanese yen. As a result, we may engage in  
    44 

     Table of Contents  

   transactions involving various derivative instruments to hedge revenues, inventory purchases, assets, and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. 
  As of   September 30, 2012  , we had forward foreign exchange contracts that hedge portions of anticipated international revenue streams and inventory purchases. In addition, we had forward foreign exchange contracts that qualify as accounting hedges of our net investment in Starbucks Japan to minimize foreign currency exposure. 
  Starbucks also had forward foreign exchange contracts that are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes (free standing derivatives), but which largely offset the financial impact of translating certain foreign currency denominated payables and receivables. Increases or decreases in the fair value of these derivatives are generally offset by corresponding decreases or increases in the US dollar value of our foreign currency denominated payables and receivables (  i.e.    hedged items ) that would occur within the period. 
  The following table summarizes the potential impact as of   September 30, 2012   to Starbucks future net earnings and other comprehensive income ( OCI ) from changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments due in turn to a change in the value of the US dollar as compared to the level of foreign exchange rates. The information provided below relates only to the hedging instruments and does not represent the corresponding changes in the underlying hedged items (  in millions  ): 
                                               
    Increase/(Decrease) to Net Earnings 
      
    Increase/(Decrease) to OCI 
        
    10% Increase  in 
  Underlying Rate 
      
    10% Decrease  in 
  Underlying Rate 
      
    10% Increase  in 
  Underlying Rate 
      
    10% Decrease  in 
  Underlying Rate 
      Foreign currency hedges 
    $ 
    8 

$ 
    (8 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    30 

$ 
    (30 
    ) 

Equity Security Price Risk 
  We have minimal exposure to price fluctuations on equity mutual funds and equity exchange-traded funds within our trading portfolio. The trading securities approximate a portion of our liability under the Management Deferred Compensation Plan ( MDCP ). A corresponding liability is included in accrued compensation and related costs on the consolidated balance sheets. These investments are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses recognized in net interest income and other in the consolidated statements of earnings. The offsetting changes in the MDCP liability are recorded in general and administrative expenses. We performed a sensitivity analysis based on a 10% change in the underlying equity prices of our investments as of   September 30, 2012   and determined that such a change would not have a significant impact on the fair value of these instruments. 
    
  Interest Rate Risk 
  We utilize short-term and long-term financing and may use interest rate hedges to manage the effect of interest rate changes on our existing debt as well as the anticipated issuance of new debt. As of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , we did not have any interest rate hedge agreements outstanding. 
  The following table summarizes the impact of a change in interest rates as of   September 30, 2012   on the fair value of Starbucks debt   (in millions)  :  

Our available-for-sale securities comprise a diversified portfolio consisting mainly of fixed income instruments. The primary objectives of these investments are to preserve capital and liquidity. Available-for-sale securities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported as a component  
    45 

     Table of Contents  

   of accumulated other comprehensive income. We do not hedge the interest rate exposure on our available-for-sale securities. We performed a sensitivity analysis based on a 100 basis point change in the underlying interest rate of our available-for-sale securities as of   September 30, 2012  , and determined that such a change would not have a significant impact on the fair value of these instruments. 

APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  Critical accounting policies are those that management believes are both most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. 
  We consider financial reporting and disclosure practices and accounting policies quarterly to ensure that they provide accurate and transparent information relative to the current economic and business environment. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and/or complexity: 
    
  Asset Impairment 
  When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values of long-lived assets may not be recoverable, we evaluate long-lived assets for impairment. We first compare the carrying value of the asset to the asset s estimated future undiscounted cash flows. If the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, we measure an impairment loss based on the asset s estimated fair value. For retail assets, the impairment test is performed at the individual store asset group level. The fair value of a store s assets is estimated using a discounted cash flow model based on internal projections. Key assumptions used in this calculation include revenue growth, operating expenses and a discount rate that we believe a buyer would assume when determining a purchase price for the store. Estimates of revenue growth and operating expenses are based on internal projections and consider a store s historical performance, local market economics and the business environment impacting the store s performance. These estimates are subjective and can be significantly impacted by changes in the business or economic conditions. For non-retail assets, fair value is determined using an approach that is appropriate based on the relevant facts and circumstances, which may include discounted cash flows, comparable transactions, or comparable company analyses. 
  Our impairment loss calculations contain uncertainties because they require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate future cash flows and asset fair values, including forecasting asset useful lives. Further, our ability to realize undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying values of our assets is affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvement of the assets, changes in economic conditions, and changes in operating performance. During the past three fiscal years, we have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology that we use to assess long-lived asset impairment loss. For the foreseeable future, we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions that we use to calculate long-lived asset impairment losses. However, as we periodically reassess estimated future cash flows and asset fair values, changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material impairment charges in the future. 
    
  Goodwill Impairment 
  We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis during our third fiscal quarter, or more frequently if circumstances, such as material deterioration in performance or a significant number of store closures, indicate reporting unit carrying values may exceed their fair values.When evaluating goodwill for impairment, we first perform a qualitative assessment to determine if the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not greater than the carrying amount. If not, we calculate the implied estimated fair value of the reporting unit. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied estimated fair value, an impairment charge is recorded to reduce the carrying value to the implied estimated fair value. The fair value of each of our reporting units is the price a  
    46 

     Table of Contents  

   willing buyer would pay for the reporting unit and is typically calculated using a discounted cash flow model. Key assumptions used in this calculation include revenue growth, operating expenses and a discount rate that we believe a buyer would assume when determining a purchase price for the reporting unit. Estimates of revenue growth and operating expenses are based on internal projections considering a reporting unit s past performance and forecasted growth, local market economics and the local business environment impacting the reporting unit s performance. The discount rate is calculated using an estimated cost of capital for a retail operator to operate the reporting unit in the region. These estimates are highly subjective judgments and can be significantly impacted by changes in the business or economic conditions. 
  Our impairment loss calculations contain uncertainties because they require management to make assumptions in the qualitative assessment of the reporting unit and require management to apply judgment to estimate the fair value of our reporting units, including estimating future cash flows, and if necessary, the fair value of a reporting units  assets and liabilities. Further, our ability to realize the future cash flows used in our fair value calculations is affected by factors such as changes in economic conditions, changes in our operating performance, and changes in our business strategies. 
  As a part of our ongoing operations, we may close certain stores within a reporting unit containing goodwill due to underperformance of the store or inability to renew our lease, among other reasons. We abandon certain assets associated with a closed store including leasehold improvements and other non-transferable assets. Under GAAP, when a portion of a reporting unit that constitutes a business is to be disposed of, goodwill associated with the business is included in the carrying amount of the business in determining any loss on disposal. Our evaluation of whether the portion of a reporting unit being disposed of constitutes a business occurs on the date of abandonment. Although an operating store meets the accounting definition of a business prior to abandonment, it does not constitute a business on the closure date because the remaining assets on that date do not constitute an integrated set of assets that are capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing a return to investors. As a result, when closing individual stores, we do not include goodwill in the calculation of any loss on disposal of the related assets. As noted above, if store closures are indicative of potential impairment of goodwill at the reporting unit level, we perform an evaluation of our reporting unit goodwill when such closures occur. 
  During the past three fiscal years, we have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology that we use to assess goodwill impairment loss. For fiscal   2012  , we determined the fair value of our reporting units was substantially in excess of their carrying values. Accordingly, we did not recognize any goodwill impairments during the current fiscal year. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions that we use to test for impairment losses on goodwill in the foreseeable future. However, as we periodically reassess our fair value calculations, including estimated future cash flows, changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material impairment charges in the future. 
    
  Self Insurance Reserves 
  We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance entity and participation in a reinsurance treaty, to provide for the potential liabilities for certain risks, including workers  compensation, healthcare benefits, general liability, property insurance, and director and officers  liability insurance. Key assumptions used in the estimate of our self insurance reserves include the amount of claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date. These liabilities, which are associated with the risks that are retained by Starbucks are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic, exposure and severity factors, and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. 
  Our self-insurance reserves contain uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the ultimate cost to settle reported claims and claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date. Periodically, we review our assumptions to determine the adequacy of our self-insurance reserves. 
    47 

     Table of Contents  

   During the past three fiscal years, we have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology that we use to calculate our self-insurance reserves. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions that we use to calculate our self-insurance reserves for the foreseeable future. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. 
  A 10% change in our self-insurance reserves at   September 30, 2012   would have affected net earnings by approximately $10 million in fiscal   2012  . 
    
  Income Taxes 
  We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the respective tax bases of our assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using current enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which we expect the temporary differences to reverse. We routinely evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit of our deferred tax assets and may record a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, we determine that some portion of the tax benefit will not be realized. 
  In addition, our income tax returns are periodically audited by domestic and foreign tax authorities. These audits include questions regarding our tax filing positions, including the timing and amount of deductions taken and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. We evaluate our exposures associated with our various tax filing positions; we recognize a tax benefit only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the relevant taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of our position. For uncertain tax positions that do not meet this threshold, we record a related liability. We adjust our unrecognized tax benefits liability and income tax expense in the period in which the uncertain tax position is effectively settled, the statute of limitations expires for the relevant taxing authority to examine the tax position, or when new information becomes available. 
  Income generated in certain foreign jurisdictions has not been subject to US income taxes. We intend to reinvest these earnings for the foreseeable future. If these amounts were distributed to the US, in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional US income taxes, which could be material. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liabilities on these earnings is not practicable because such liability, if any, is dependent on circumstances existing if and when remittance occurs. 
  Deferred tax asset valuation allowances and our liability for unrecognized tax benefits require significant management judgment regarding applicable statutes and their related interpretation, the status of various income tax audits, and our particular facts and circumstances. Although we believe that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. To the extent we prevail in matters for which a liability has been established, or are required to pay amounts in excess of our established liability, our effective income tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. 
    
  Litigation Accruals 
  We are involved in various claims and legal actions that arise in the ordinary course of business. Legal and other contingency reserves and related disclosures are based on our assessment of the likelihood of a potential loss and our ability to estimate the loss or range of loss, which includes consultation with outside legal counsel and advisors. We record reserves related to legal matters when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the range of such loss can be reasonably estimated. Such assessments are reviewed each period and revised, based on current facts and circumstances and historical experience with similar claims, as necessary. 
  Our disclosures of and accruals for litigation claims, if any, contain uncertainties because management is required to use judgment to estimate the probability of a loss and a range of possible losses related to each claim. Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements describes the Company s legal and other contingent liability matters. 
    48 

     Table of Contents  

   As we periodically review our assessments of litigation accruals, we may change our assumptions with respect to loss probabilities and ranges of potential losses. Any changes in these assumptions could have a material impact on our future results of operations. 

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 
  See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in this 10-K for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity in future periods. 

Item 7A. 
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
     The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Commodity Prices, Availability and General Risk Conditions  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Financial Risk Management  in Item 7 of this Report. 
    
    49 

       Table of Contents  

            Item 8. 
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
       STARBUCKS CORPORATION 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 
  (in millions, except per share data) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

50 

       Table of Contents  

   STARBUCKS CORPORATION 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  (in millions, except per share data) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

51 

       Table of Contents  

   STARBUCKS CORPORATION 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  (in millions)   

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    52 

       Table of Contents  

   STARBUCKS CORPORATION 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY 
  (in millions)   

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    53 

       Table of Contents  

   STARBUCKS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  Fiscal Years ended   September 30, 2012  ,   October 2, 2011   and   October 3, 2010    
    
    Note 1:     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
    
  Description of Business 
  We purchase and roast high-quality coffees that we sell, along with handcrafted coffee and tea beverages and a variety of fresh food items, through our company-operated stores. We also sell a variety of coffee and tea products and license our trademarks through other channels such as licensed stores, grocery and national foodservice accounts.  
  In this 10-K, Starbucks Corporation (together with its subsidiaries) is referred to as  Starbucks,  the  Company,   we,   us  or  our.  
  We have   four   reportable operating segments: Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa, collectively referred to as  EMEA;  China / Asia Pacific ( CAP ) and Channel Development. Our Seattle s Best Coffee operating segment is reported in  Other  with Evolution Fresh, our Digital Ventures business and unallocated corporate expenses.  
  Additional details on the nature of our business and our reportable operating segments are in Item 1 of this 10-K. 
    
  Principles of Consolidation 
  The consolidated financial statements reflect the financial position and operating results of Starbucks, including wholly owned subsidiaries and investees that we control. Investments in entities that we do not control, but have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies, are accounted for under the equity method. Investments in entities in which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for under the cost method. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. 
    
  Fiscal Year End 
  Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to September 30. Fiscal years   2012   and   2011   included   52 weeks  . Fiscal year   2010   included   53 weeks  , with the 53   rd   week falling in the   fourth   fiscal quarter. 
    
  Estimates and Assumptions 
  Preparing financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Examples include, but are not limited to, estimates for asset and goodwill impairments, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, future asset retirement obligations, and inventory reserves; assumptions underlying self-insurance reserves and income from unredeemed stored value cards; and the potential outcome of future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the financial statements. Actual results and outcomes may differ from these estimates and assumptions. 
    
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  We consider all highly liquid instruments with a maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents are valued using active markets for identical assets. We maintain cash and cash equivalent balances with financial institutions that exceed federally insured limits. We have not experienced any losses related to these balances and we believe credit risk to be minimal. 
  Our cash management system provides for the funding of all major bank disbursement accounts on a daily basis as checks are presented for payment. Under this system, outstanding checks are in excess of the cash balances at  
    54 

     Table of Contents  

   certain banks, which creates book overdrafts. Book overdrafts are presented as a current liability in accounts payable on the consolidated balance sheets. 
    
  Short-term and Long-term Investments 
  Our short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of investment grade debt securities, including some auction rate securities, all of which are classified as available-for-sale. Also included in our available-for-sale investment portfolio are certificates of deposit placed through an account registry service. Available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value, and unrealized holding gains and losses are recorded, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Available-for-sale securities with remaining maturities of less than one year and those identified by management at the time of purchase to be used to fund operations within one year are classified as short term. All other available-for-sale securities, including all of our auction rate securities, are classified as long term. Unrealized losses are charged against net earnings when a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary. We review several factors to determine whether a loss is other than temporary, such as the length and extent of the fair value decline, the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, and whether we have the intent to sell or will likely be required to sell before the securities anticipated recovery, which may be at maturity. Realized gains and losses are accounted for using the specific identification method. Purchases and sales are recorded on a trade date basis. 
  We also have a trading securities portfolio, which is comprised of marketable equity mutual funds and equity exchange-traded funds. Trading securities are recorded at fair value with unrealized holding gains and losses included in net earnings. 
    
  Fair Value 
  Fair value is the price we would receive to sell an asset or pay to transfer a liability (exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants. For financial instruments and investments that we record or disclose at fair value, we determine fair value based upon the quoted market price as of the last day of the fiscal period, if available. If a quoted market price is not available for identical assets, we determine fair value based upon the quoted market price of similar assets or using a variety of other valuation methodologies. We determine fair value of our auction rate securities using an internally developed valuation model, using inputs that include interest rate curves, credit and liquidity spreads, and effective maturity. 
  The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value because of the short-term nature of these instruments. The fair value of our long-term debt is estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to us for debt of the same remaining maturities. 
  We measure our equity and cost method investments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis when they are determined to be other-than temporarily impaired. Fair values are determined using available quoted market prices or discounted cash flows. 
    
  Derivative Instruments 
  We manage our exposure to various risks within the consolidated financial statements according to a market price risk management policy. Under this policy, we may engage in transactions involving various derivative instruments to hedge interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency denominated revenues, purchases, assets and liabilities. We generally do not enter into derivative instruments with maturities longer than   five years  . 
  We enter into fixed-price and price-to-be-fixed coffee purchase commitments. Price-to-be-fixed contracts are purchase commitments whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base  C  coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. For these types of contracts, either Starbucks or the seller has the option to  fix  the base  C  coffee commodity price prior to the delivery date. For both fixed-price and price-to-be-fixed purchase commitments, we expect to take delivery of and to utilize the coffee in a reasonable period of time and in the conduct of normal business. Accordingly, these purchase commitments qualify as normal purchases and are not recorded at fair value on our balance sheets. 
    55 

     Table of Contents  

   We record all derivatives on the balance sheets at fair value. For a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss is initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income ( OCI ) and subsequently reclassified into net earnings when the hedged exposure affects net earnings. For a net investment hedge, the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss is reported as a component of OCI.  
  Cash flow hedges related to anticipated transactions are designated and documented at the inception of each hedge by matching the terms of the contract to the underlying transaction. We classify the cash flows from hedging transactions in the same categories as the cash flows from the respective hedged items. Once established, cash flow hedges are generally not removed until maturity unless an anticipated transaction is no longer likely to occur. For discontinued or dedesignated cash flow hedges, the related accumulated derivative gains or losses are recognized in net interest income and other on the consolidated statements of earnings.  
  Forward contract effectiveness for cash flow hedges is calculated by comparing the fair value of the contract to the change in value of the anticipated transaction using forward rates on a monthly basis. For net investment hedges, the spot-to-spot method is used to calculate effectiveness. Under this method, the change in fair value of the forward contract attributable to the changes in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) is reported as a component of OCI. The remaining change in fair value of the forward contract (the ineffective portion) is reclassified into net earnings. Any ineffectiveness is recognized immediately in net interest income and other on the consolidated statements of earnings.  
  Certain foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swap contracts, and futures contracts are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. These contracts are recorded at fair value, with the changes in fair value recognized in net interest income and other on the consolidated statements of earnings.  
    
  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 
  Allowance for doubtful accounts is calculated based on historical experience, customer credit risk and application of the specific identification method. As of   September 30, 2012  ,   October 2, 2011  , and   October 3, 2010  , the allowance for doubtful accounts was   $5.6 million  ,   $3.3 million  , and   $3.3 million   respectively. 
    
  Inventories 
  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (primarily moving average cost) or market. We record inventory reserves for obsolete and slow-moving inventory and for estimated shrinkage between physical inventory counts. Inventory reserves are based on inventory obsolescence trends, historical experience and application of the specific identification method. As of   September 30, 2012  ,   October 2, 2011  , and   October 3, 2010  , inventory reserves were   $22.6 million  ,   $19.5 million  , and   $18.1 million  , respectively. 
    
  Property, Plant and Equipment 
  Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, which includes assets under capital leases, is provided on the straight-line method over estimated useful lives, generally ranging from   2   to   15 years   for equipment and   30   to   40 years   for buildings. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the related lease life, generally   10 years   . For leases with renewal periods at our option, we generally use the original lease term, excluding renewal option periods, to determine estimated useful lives. If failure to exercise a renewal option imposes an economic penalty to us, we may determine at the inception of the lease that renewal is reasonably assured and include the renewal option period in the determination of the appropriate estimated useful lives. The portion of depreciation expense related to production and distribution facilities is included in cost of sales including occupancy costs on the consolidated statements of earnings. The costs of repairs and maintenance are expensed when incurred, while expenditures for refurbishments and improvements that significantly add to the productive capacity or extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized. When assets are retired or sold, the asset cost and related accumulated depreciation are eliminated with any remaining gain or loss recognized in net earnings. 
    
    56 

     Table of Contents  

   Goodwill 
  We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis during our third fiscal quarter, or more frequently if circumstances, such as material deterioration in performance or a significant number of store closures, indicate reporting unit carrying values may exceed their fair values. When evaluating goodwill for impairment, we first perform a qualitative assessment to determine if the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not greater than the carrying amount. If not, we calculate the implied estimated fair value of the reporting unit. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied estimated fair value, an impairment charge to current operations is recorded to reduce the carrying value to the implied estimated fair value. 
  As a part of our ongoing operations, we may close certain stores within a reporting unit containing goodwill due to underperformance of the store or inability to renew our lease, among other reasons. We abandon certain assets associated with a closed store including leasehold improvements and other non-transferable assets. Under GAAP, when a portion of a reporting unit that constitutes a business is to be disposed of, goodwill associated with the business is included in the carrying amount of the business in determining any loss on disposal. Our evaluation of whether the portion of a reporting unit being disposed of constitutes a business occurs on the date of abandonment. Although an operating store meets the accounting definition of a business prior to abandonment, it does not constitute a business on the closure date because the remaining assets on that date do not constitute an integrated set of assets that are capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing a return to investors. As a result, when closing individual stores, we do not include goodwill in the calculation of any loss on disposal of the related assets. As noted above, if store closures are indicative of potential impairment of goodwill at the reporting unit level, we perform an evaluation of our reporting unit goodwill when such closures occur. During Fiscal   2012   and fiscal   2011   we recorded   no   impairment charges and recorded   $1.6 million   in fiscal   2010  . 
    
  Other Intangible Assets 
  Other intangible assets consist primarily of trademarks with indefinite lives, which are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Definite-lived intangible assets, which mainly consist of contract-based patents and copyrights, are amortized over their estimated useful lives, and are tested for impairment when facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable. Based on the impairment tests performed, there was   no   impairment of other intangible assets in fiscal   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  . 
    
  Long-lived Assets 
  When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values of long-lived assets may not be recoverable, we evaluate long-lived assets for impairment. We first compare the carrying value of the asset to the asset s estimated future cash flows (undiscounted). If the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, we calculate an impairment loss based on the asset s estimated fair value. The fair value of the assets is estimated using a discounted cash flow model based on forecasted future revenues and operating costs, using internal projections. Property, plant and equipment assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows when assessing impairment. Cash flows for company-operated store assets are identified at the individual store level. Long-lived assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of their carrying amount, or fair value less estimated costs to sell. 
  We recognized net impairment and disposition losses of   $31.7 million  ,   $36.2 million  , and   $67.7 million   in fiscal   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  , respectively, primarily due to underperforming company-operated stores. Depending on the underlying asset that is impaired, these losses may be recorded in any one of the operating expense lines on the consolidated statements of earnings: for retail operations, the net impairment and disposition losses are recorded in store operating expenses and for all other operations, these losses are recorded in cost of sales including occupancy costs, other operating expenses, or general and administrative expenses. 
    
    57 

     Table of Contents  

   Insurance Reserves 
  We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance entity and participation in a reinsurance treaty, to provide for the potential liabilities for certain risks, including workers  compensation, healthcare benefits, general liability, property insurance, and director and officers  liability insurance. Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by us are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic, exposure and severity factors, and other actuarial assumptions. 
    
  Revenue Recognition 
  Consolidated revenues are presented net of intercompany eliminations for wholly owned subsidiaries and investees controlled by us and for licensees accounted for under the equity method, based on our percentage ownership. Additionally, consolidated revenues are recognized net of any discounts, returns, allowances and sales incentives, including coupon redemptions and rebates. 
  Company-operated Stores Revenues 
  Company-operated store revenues are recognized when payment is tendered at the point of sale. Retail store revenues are reported net of sales, use or other transaction taxes that are collected from customers and remitted to taxing authorities. 
  Licensed Stores Revenues 
  Licensed stores revenues consist of product sales to licensed stores, as well as royalties and other fees paid by licensees to use the Starbucks brand. Sales of coffee, tea and related products are generally recognized upon shipment to licensees, depending on contract terms. Shipping charges billed to licensees are also recognized as revenue, and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales including occupancy costs on the consolidated statements of earnings. 
  Initial nonrefundable development fees for licensed stores are recognized upon substantial performance of services for new market business development activities, such as initial business, real estate and store development planning, as well as providing operational materials and functional training courses for opening new licensed retail markets. Additional store licensing fees are recognized when new licensed stores are opened. Royalty revenues based upon a percentage of reported sales and other continuing fees, such as marketing and service fees, are recognized on a monthly basis when earned. 
  CPG, Foodservice and Other Revenues 
  CPG, foodservice and other revenues primarily consist of domestic and international sales of packaged coffee and tea as well as a variety of ready-to-drink beverages and single-serve coffee and tea products to grocery, warehouse club and specialty retail stores, sales to our national foodservice accounts, and revenues from sales of products to and license revenues from manufacturers that produce and market Starbucks and Seattle s Best Coffee branded products through licensing agreements. Sales of coffee, tea, ready-to-drink beverages and related products to grocery and warehouse club stores are generally recognized when received by the customer or distributor, depending on contract terms. We maintain a sales return allowance to reduce packaged goods revenues for estimated future product returns based on historical patterns. Revenues are recorded net of sales discounts given to customers for trade promotions and payments to customers for product placement in our customers  stores. 
  Revenues from sales of products to manufacturers that produce and market Starbucks and Seattle s Best Coffee branded products through licensing agreements are generally recognized when the product is received by the manufacturer or distributor. License revenues from manufacturers are based on a percentage of sales and are recognized on a monthly basis when earned. National foodservice account revenues are recognized when the product is received by the customer or distributor. 
    58 

     Table of Contents  

   Stored Value Cards 
  Revenues from our stored value cards, primarily Starbucks Cards, are recognized when redeemed or when the likelihood of redemption, based on historical experience, is deemed to be remote. Outstanding customer balances are included in deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets. There are no expiration dates on our stored value cards, and we do not charge any service fees that cause a decrement to customer balances. While we will continue to honor all stored value cards presented for payment, management may determine the likelihood of redemption to be remote for certain cards due to long periods of inactivity. In these circumstances, if management also determines there is no requirement for remitting balances to government agencies under unclaimed property laws, card balances may then be recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings, in net interest income and other. For the fiscal years ended   September 30, 2012  ,   October 2, 2011  , and   October 3, 2010  , income recognized on unredeemed stored value card balances was   $65.8 million  ,   $46.9 million  , and   $31.2 million  , respectively. In fiscal 2012, we recognized additional income associated with unredeemed gift cards due to a recent court ruling relating to state unclaimed property laws.  
  Customers in the US, Canada, and the UK who register their Starbucks Card are automatically enrolled in the My Starbucks Reward program and earn points ( Stars ) with each purchase. Reward program members receive various benefits depending on the number of Stars earned in a 12-month period. The value of Stars earned by our program members towards free product is included in deferred revenue and recorded as a reduction in revenue at the time the Stars are earned, based on the value of Stars that are projected to be redeemed. 
    
  Marketing   Advertising 
  Our annual marketing expenses include many components, one of which is advertising costs. We expense most advertising costs as they are incurred, except for certain production costs that are expensed the first time the advertising campaign takes place. 
  Annual marketing expenses totaled $  277.9 million  , $  244.0 million  , and $  198.7 million   in fiscal   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  , respectively. Included in these costs were advertising expenses, which totaled    $182.4 million  ,   $141.4 million  , and   $176.2 million   in fiscal   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  , respectively. 
    
  Store Preopening Expenses 
  Costs incurred in connection with the start-up and promotion of new store openings are expensed as incurred. 
    
  Operating Leases 
  We lease retail stores, roasting, distribution and warehouse facilities, and office space under operating leases. Most lease agreements contain tenant improvement allowances, rent holidays, lease premiums, rent escalation clauses and/or contingent rent provisions. For purposes of recognizing incentives, premiums and minimum rental expenses on a straight-line basis over the terms of the leases, we use the date of initial possession to begin amortization, which is generally when we enter the space and begin to make improvements in preparation of intended use. 
  For tenant improvement allowances and rent holidays, we record a deferred rent liability on the consolidated balance sheets and amortize the deferred rent over the terms of the leases as reductions to rent expense on the consolidated statements of earnings. 
  For premiums paid upfront to enter a lease agreement, we record a deferred rent asset on the consolidated balance sheets and then amortize the deferred rent over the terms of the leases as additional rent expense on the consolidated statements of earnings. 
  For scheduled rent escalation clauses during the lease terms or for rental payments commencing at a date other than the date of initial occupancy, we record minimum rental expenses on a straight-line basis over the terms of the leases on the consolidated statements of earnings. 
    59 

     Table of Contents  

   Certain leases provide for contingent rents, which are determined as a percentage of gross sales in excess of specified levels. We record a contingent rent liability on the consolidated balance sheets and the corresponding rent expense when specified levels have been achieved or when we determine that achieving the specified levels during the fiscal year is probable. 
  When ceasing operations in company-operated stores under operating leases, in cases where the lease contract specifies a termination fee due to the landlord, we record such expense at the time written notice is given to the landlord. In cases where terms, including termination fees, are yet to be negotiated with the landlord, we will record the expense upon signing of an agreement with the landlord. In cases where the landlord does not allow us to prematurely exit the lease, but allows for subleasing, we estimate the fair value of any sublease income that can be generated from the location and expense the present value of the excess of remaining lease payments to the landlord over the projected sublease income at the cease-use date. 
    
  Asset Retirement Obligations 
  We recognize a liability for the fair value of required asset retirement obligations ( ARO ) when such obligations are incurred. Our AROs are primarily associated with leasehold improvements, which, at the end of a lease, we are contractually obligated to remove in order to comply with the lease agreement. At the inception of a lease with such conditions, we record an ARO liability and a corresponding capital asset in an amount equal to the estimated fair value of the obligation. The liability is estimated based on a number of assumptions requiring management s judgment, including store closing costs, cost inflation rates and discount rates, and is accreted to its projected future value over time. The capitalized asset is depreciated using the same depreciation convention as leasehold improvement assets. Upon satisfaction of the ARO conditions, any difference between the recorded ARO liability and the actual retirement costs incurred is recognized as an operating gain or loss in the consolidated statements of earnings. As of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , our net ARO asset included in property, plant and equipment was   $8.8 million   and   $11.8 million  , respectively, and our net ARO liability included in other long-term liabilities was   $42.6 million   and   $50.1 million  , respectively. 
    
  Stock-based Compensation 
  We maintain several equity incentive plans under which we may grant non-qualified stock options, incentive stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or stock appreciation rights to employees, non-employee directors and consultants. We also have employee stock purchase plans ( ESPP ). RSUs issued by us are equivalent to nonvested shares under the applicable accounting guidance. We record stock-based compensation expenses based on the fair value of stock awards at the grant date and recognize the expense over the related service period following a graded vesting expense schedule. For stock option awards we use the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to measure fair value. For restricted stock units, fair value is calculated using the stock price at the date of grant. 
    
  Foreign Currency Translation 
  Our international operations generally use their local currency as their functional currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Income and expense accounts are translated at the average monthly exchange rates during the year. Resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheets. 
    
  Income Taxes 
  We compute income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which deferred income taxes are provided for the temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We routinely evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit of our deferred tax assets and may record a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, we determine that some portion of the tax benefit will not be realized. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the  
    60 

     Table of Contents  

   tax position will be sustained on examination by the relevant taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of our position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Starbucks recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. 
    
  Earnings per Share 
  Basic earnings per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock and the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period, calculated using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and RSUs. Performance-based RSUs are considered dilutive when the related performance criterion has been met. 
    
  Common Stock Share Repurchases 
  We may repurchase shares of Starbucks common stock under a program authorized by our Board of Directors, including pursuant to a contract, instruction or written plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under applicable Washington State law, shares repurchased are retired and not displayed separately as treasury stock on the financial statements. Instead, the par value of repurchased shares is deducted from common stock and the excess repurchase price over par value is deducted from additional paid-in capital and from retained earnings, once additional paid-in capital is depleted. 
    
  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
  In July 2012, the FASB issued guidance that revises the requirements around how entities test indefinite-lived intangible assets, other than goodwill, for impairment. The guidance allows companies to perform a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the reporting unit. If entities determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is more likely than not greater than the carrying amount, a quantitative calculation would not be needed. The guidance will become effective for us at the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2013. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statements. 
  In September 2011, the FASB issued guidance that revises the requirements around how entities test goodwill for impairment. The guidance allows companies to perform a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the reporting unit. If entities determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not greater than the carrying amount, a quantitative calculation would not be needed. We early-adopted this guidance effective for our fiscal 2012 annual goodwill impairment test, which we performed during the third fiscal quarter. The adoption of this guidance will result in a change in how we perform our goodwill impairment assessment; however, it will not have a material impact on our financial statements. 
  In June 2011, the FASB issued guidance that revises the manner in which entities present comprehensive income in their financial statements. The guidance requires entities to report the components of comprehensive income in either a single, continuous statement or two separate but consecutive statements. The guidance will become effective for us at the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2013. The adoption of this new guidance will result in a change in how we present the components of comprehensive income, which is currently presented within our consolidated statements of equity. 
  In May 2011, the FASB issued guidance to amend the fair value measurement and disclosure requirements. The guidance requires the disclosure of quantitative information about unobservable inputs used, a description of the valuation processes used, and a qualitative discussion around the sensitivity of the measurements. This guidance became effective for us at the beginning of our second quarter of fiscal 2012. The adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements. 
    
    61 

     Table of Contents  

   Reclassifications 
  Change in shared service allocations 
  Effective at the beginning of fiscal   2012  , we implemented the previously announced strategic realignment of our organizational structure designed to accelerate our global growth strategy. A president for each region, reporting directly to our chief executive officer, now oversees the company-operated retail business working closely with both the licensed and joint-venture business partners in each market. The regional presidents also work closely with our Channel Development team to continue building out our brands and channels in each region. 
  In connection with the changes to our organizational structure and reporting, we have changed the accountability for, and reporting of, certain indirect overhead costs. Certain indirect merchandising, manufacturing costs and back-office shared service costs, which were previously allocated to segment level costs of sales and operating expenses, are now managed at a corporate level and will be reported within unallocated corporate expenses. These expenses have therefore been removed from the segment level financial results. In order to conform prior period classifications with the new alignment, the historical consolidated financial statements have been recast with the following adjustments to previously reported amounts (in millions): 

There was no impact on consolidated net revenues, total operating expenses, operating income, or net earnings as a result of this change. Additional discussion regarding the change in our organizational structure and segment results is included at Note 17. 
    62 

     Table of Contents  

   Change in revenue presentation  
  In the second quarter of fiscal   2011  , concurrent with the change in our distribution method for packaged coffee and tea in the US, we revised the presentation of revenues. Non-retail licensing revenues were reclassified on the consolidated financial statements to the renamed  CPG, foodservice and other  revenue line, which includes revenues from our direct sale of packaged coffee and tea as well as licensing revenues received under the previous distribution arrangement. The previous  Licensing  revenue line now includes only licensed store revenue and therefore has been renamed  Licensed stores.  For fiscal   2010  ,   $465.7 million   was reclassified from the previously named Licensing revenue to CPG, foodservice and other revenue. There was no impact to consolidated or segment total net revenues from this change in presentation. 

Note 2:    Acquisitions 
  On   July 3, 2012  , we acquired   100%   ownership interest in Bay Bread, LLC and its La Boulange bakery brand (collectively  La Boulange ), to elevate our core food offerings and build a premium, artisanal bakery brand. We acquired La Boulange for a purchase price of approximately   $100 million   in cash. The following table summarizes the allocation of the purchase price to the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the closing date (in millions): 

The assets acquired and liabilities assumed are included in our Americas operating segment. Other current assets acquired primarily include cash, trade receivables, and inventory. In addition, we assumed various current liabilities primarily consisting of accounts payable and accrued payroll related liabilities. The intangible assets acquired as part of the transaction include the La Boulange trade name and proprietary recipes and processes. The La Boulange trade name was valued at   $9.7 million   and determined to have an indefinite life while the intangible asset relating to the proprietary recipes and processes was valued at   $14.6 million   and will be amortized over a period of   10 years  . The   $58.7 million   of goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes and was allocated to our Americas operating segment. 
  On   November 10, 2011  , we acquired the outstanding shares of Evolution Fresh, Inc., a super-premium juice company, to expand our portfolio of product offerings and enter into the super-premium juice market. We acquired Evolution Fresh for a purchase price of   $30 million   in cash. The fair value of the net assets acquired on the acquisition date included   $18 million   of goodwill. Evolution Fresh is its own operating segment and is reported in  Other  along with our Seattle s Best Coffee operating segment, our Digital Ventures business, and unallocated corporate expenses. 
  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we acquired the   50%   ownership interest in Switzerland and Austria from our joint venture partner, Marinopoulos Holdings S.A.R.L, converting these markets to   100%   owned company-operated markets, for a purchase price of   $65.5 million  . As a result of this acquisition, we adjusted the carrying value of our previous equity investment to fair value, resulting in a gain of approximately   $55 million   which was included in net interest income and other on our consolidated statements of earnings. The fair value of 100% of the net assets of these markets on the acquisition date was   $131.0 million   and was recorded on our consolidated  
    63 

     Table of Contents  

   balance sheets. Included in these net assets were   $63.8 million   of goodwill and   $35.1 million   in definite-lived intangible assets. 
  In the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we acquired the remaining   30%   ownership of our business in the southern portion of China from our noncontrolling partner, Maxim s Caterers Limited (Maxim s). We simultaneously sold our   5%   ownership interest in the Hong Kong market to Maxim s. 
  In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we acquired   100%   ownership of our business in France, converting it from a   50%   joint venture with Sigla S.A. (Grupo Vips) of Spain to a company-operated market. We simultaneously sold our   50%   ownership interests in the Spain and Portugal markets to Grupo Vips, converting them to licensed markets. 
  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we acquired   100%   ownership of our business in Brazil, converting it from a   49%   joint venture with Caf s Sereia do Brasil Participa  es S.A of Brazil to a company-operated market. 
  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we acquired   100%   ownership of a previously consolidated   50%   joint venture in the US with Johnson Coffee Corporation, Urban Coffee Opportunities ( UCO ). 
  The following table shows the effects of the change in Starbucks ownership interest in UCO and our business in South China on Starbucks equity: 

Note 3:    Derivative Financial Instruments 
  Foreign Currency  
  We enter into forward and swap contracts to hedge portions of cash flows of anticipated revenue streams and inventory purchases in currencies other than the entity's functional currency.  Net derivative losses from cash flow hedges of   $2.9 million   and   $11.1 million  , net of taxes, were included in accumulated other comprehensive income as of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , respectively. Of the net derivative losses accumulated as of   September 30, 2012  ,   $2.9 million   pertains to derivative instruments that will be dedesignated as cash flow hedges within 12 months and will also continue to experience fair value changes before affecting earnings. Outstanding contracts will expire within   12 months  . 
  We also enter into net investment derivative instruments to hedge our equity method investment in Starbucks Coffee Japan, Ltd., to minimize foreign currency exposure. Net derivative losses from net investment hedges of    $33.6 million   and   $34.2 million  , net of taxes, were included in accumulated other comprehensive income as of    September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , respectively. Outstanding contracts will expire within   29 months  . 
  In addition to the hedging instruments above, to mitigate the translation risk of certain balance sheet items, we enter into certain foreign currency swap contracts that are not designated as hedging instruments. These contracts are recorded at fair value, with the changes in fair value recognized in net interest income and other on the consolidated statements of earnings. Gains and losses from these instruments are largely offset by the financial impact of translating foreign currency denominated payables and receivables, which is also recognized in net interest income and other. 
    64 

     Table of Contents  

   Coffee 
  Depending on market conditions, we also enter into futures contracts to hedge a portion of anticipated cash flows under our price-to-be-fixed green coffee contracts, which are described further in Note 1. Net derivative losses of   $32.9 million  , net of taxes, were included in accumulated other comprehensive income as of   September 30, 2012   related to coffee hedges.  Of the net derivative losses accumulated as of   September 30, 2012  ,   $26.9 million   pertains to derivative instruments that will be dedesignated as cash flow hedges within 12 months and will also continue to experience fair value changes before affecting earnings. Outstanding contracts will expire within   15 months  . There was insignificant coffee hedge activity in fiscal   2011  . 
  Dairy 
  To mitigate the price uncertainty of a portion of our future purchases of dairy products, we enter into certain futures contracts that are not designated as hedging instruments. These contracts are recorded at fair value, with the changes in fair value recognized in net interest income and other. Gains and losses from these instruments are largely offset by price fluctuations on our dairy purchases which are included in cost of sales. 
  Diesel Fuel 
  To mitigate the price uncertainty of a portion of our future purchases of diesel fuel, we enter into certain swap contracts that are not designated as hedging instruments. These contracts are recorded at fair value, with the changes in fair value recognized in net interest income and other. Gains and losses from these instruments are largely offset by the financial impact of diesel fuel fluctuations on our shipping costs which are included in operating expenses. 
    
  The following table presents the pretax effect of derivative contracts designated as hedging instruments on earnings and other comprehensive income ("OCI") for fiscal years ending (  in millions  ): 

The amounts shown in the above table as recognized in earnings for foreign currency and coffee hedges represent the realized gains/(losses) reclassified from OCI to net earnings during the year. The amounts shown as recognized in OCI are prior to these reclassifications. 
    
  The following table presents the pretax effect of derivative contracts not designated as hedging instruments on earnings for fiscal years ending (  in millions  ): 

65 

     Table of Contents  

   Notional amounts of outstanding derivative contracts (  in millions  ):   

Note 4:    Fair Value Measurements 
  Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis (in millions): 

66 

     Table of Contents  

Short-term and long-term derivatives are included in other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities, respectively. 
  Gross unrealized holding gains and losses on investments were not material as of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  . 
    
  Available-for-sale Securities 
  Available-for-sale securities include government treasury securities, corporate and agency bonds, commercial paper, certificates of deposit placed through an account registry service and auction rate securities ( ARS ).  
  Level 1:   For government treasury securities, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets to determine fair value.  
    67 

     Table of Contents  

   Level 2:   For corporate and agency bonds, for which a quoted market price is not available for identical assets, we determine fair value based upon the quoted market price of similar assets or the present value of expected future cash flows, calculated by applying revenue multiples to estimate future operating results and using discount rates appropriate for the duration and the risks involved. Fair values for commercial paper are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies current imputed interest rates of similar securities. Fair values for certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies current interest rates to aggregate expected maturities. 
  Level 3:   We determine fair value of our ARS using an internally developed valuation model, using inputs that include interest rate curves, credit and liquidity spreads, and effective maturity.  
  Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities were   $5.0 million  ,   $0.0 million  , and   $1.1 million   in fiscal years   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  , respectively. For fiscal years   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010   realized gains and losses on sales and maturities were not material. 
  Certificates of deposit have maturity dates ranging from approximately   one month   to   2 years   and principal amounts, that when aggregated with interest that will accrue over the investment term, will not exceed Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation limits. Certificates of deposit with original maturities of 90 days or less are included in cash and cash equivalents. The amounts invested in certificate of deposits that were included in cash and cash equivalents were   $0.2 million   and   $4.2 million   as of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , respectively.  
  Long-term investments (except for ARS) generally mature within   3 years  . ARS have long-dated maturities but provide liquidity through a Dutch auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined calendar intervals. Our ARS are collateralized by portfolios of student loans, substantially all of which are guaranteed by the United States Department of Education. Due to the auction failures that began in 2008, these securities became illiquid and were classified as long-term investments. The investment principal associated with the failed auctions will not be accessible until: 
             
    successful auctions resume; 
                
    an active secondary market for these securities develops; 
                
    the issuers replace these securities with another form of financing; or 
                
    final payments are made according to the contractual maturities of the debt issues which range from   18   to   32 years  . 
     We do not intend to sell the ARS, nor is it likely we will be required to sell the ARS before their anticipated recovery, which may be at maturity. 
    
  Trading Securities 
  Trading securities include equity mutual funds and exchange-traded funds. For these securities, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets to determine fair value, thus these securities are considered Level 1 instruments. Our trading securities portfolio approximates a portion of the liability under the Management Deferred Compensation Plan ( MDCP ), a defined contribution plan. The corresponding deferred compensation liability of   $94.8 million   and   $84.7 million   as of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , respectively, is included in accrued compensation and related costs on the consolidated balance sheets. The changes in net unrealized holding gains/losses in the trading portfolio included in earnings for fiscal years   2012   ,   2011   and 2010 were a net   gain   of   $10.9 million  , a net   loss   of   $2.1 million  , and a net   gain   of   $4.1 million  , respectively. 
    
  Derivative Assets and Liabilities 
  Derivative assets and liabilities include foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps and futures contracts. Where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical derivative assets and liabilities that are traded on exchanges. Derivative assets and liabilities included in Level 2 are over-the-counter currency forward contracts and commodity swaps whose fair values are estimated using industry-standard valuation models. Such models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market- 
    68 

     Table of Contents  

   based observable inputs, including interest rate curves and forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. 
    
  Changes in Level 3 Instruments Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
  Financial instruments measured using Level 3 inputs described above are comprised entirely of our ARS. Changes in this balance related primarily to calls of certain of our ARS. In fiscal 2012 and 2011,   $10.7 million   and   $15.8 million  , respectively, of our ARS were called at par.  
    
  Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
  Assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include items such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, equity and cost method investments, and other assets. These assets are measured at fair value if determined to be impaired. 
  During fiscal   2012   and   2011  , we recognized fair market value adjustments with a charge to earnings for these assets as follows: 

(1) 
    These assets primarily consist of leasehold improvements in underperforming stores. The fair value was determined using a discounted cash flow model based on expected future store revenues and operating costs, using internal projections. The resulting impairment charge was included in store operating expenses. 
              (2) 
    The fair value was determined using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flows, comparable transactions, and/or comparable company analyses. The resulting impairment charge was included in other operating expenses. 
       
  Fair Value of Other Financial Instruments 
  The estimated fair value of the   $550 million   of   6.25%   Senior Notes based on the quoted market price (Level 2) was approximately   $674 million   and   $648 million   as of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , respectively. 

69 

       Table of Contents  

   Note 5:    Inventories     (in millions) 

Other merchandise held for sale includes, among other items, serveware and tea. Inventory levels vary due to seasonality, commodity market supply and price fluctuations.  
  As of   September 30, 2012  , we had committed to purchasing green coffee totaling   $557 million   under fixed-price contracts and an estimated   $297 million   under price-to-be-fixed contracts. As of   September 30, 2012  , approximately   $125 million   of our price-to-be-fixed contracts were effectively fixed through the use of futures contracts. Until prices are fixed, we estimate the total cost of these purchase commitments. We believe, based on relationships established with our suppliers in the past, the risk of non-delivery on such purchase commitments is remote. 

Note 6:    Equity and Cost Investments     (in millions) 

Equity Method Investments 
  As of   September 30, 2012  , we had a   50 percent   ownership interest in each of the following international equity investees: Starbucks Coffee Korea Co., Ltd.; President Starbucks Coffee Taiwan Ltd.; Shanghai President Coffee Co.; Berjaya Starbucks Coffee Company Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia); and Tata Starbucks Limited (India). In addition, we had a   39.6 percent   ownership interest in Starbucks Coffee Japan, Ltd. These international entities operate licensed Starbucks retail stores. We also have licensed the rights to produce and distribute Starbucks branded products to The North American Coffee Partnership with the Pepsi-Cola Company. We have a   50 percent   ownership interest in The North American Coffee Partnership, which develops and distributes bottled Frappuccino        beverages, Starbucks DoubleShot        espresso drinks, Seattle s Best Coffee        ready-to-drink espresso beverages and Starbucks Refreshers  beverages. 
  Our share of income and losses from our equity method investments is included in income from equity investees on the consolidated statements of earnings. Also included in this line item is our proportionate share of gross margin resulting from coffee and other product sales to, and royalty and license fee revenues generated from, equity investees. Revenues generated from these related parties, net of eliminations, were   $190.3 million  ,   $151.6 million  , and   $125.7 million   in fiscal years   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  , respectively. Related costs of sales, net of eliminations, were   $111.0 million  ,   $83.2 million  , and   $65.3 million   in fiscal years   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  , respectively. As of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , there were   $33.0 million   and   $31.9 million   of accounts receivable from equity investees, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets, primarily related to product sales and royalty revenues. 
    70 

     Table of Contents  

   As of   September 30, 2012  , the aggregate market value of our investment in Starbucks Japan was approximately   $400 million  , determined based on its available quoted market price, which exceeds its carrying value of   $201 million  . 
  Summarized combined financial information of our equity method investees, which represent   100%   of the investees  financial information (  in millions  ): 

Cost Method Investments 
  As of   September 30, 2012  , we had a   $41 million   investment of equity interests in entities that develop and operate Starbucks licensed retail stores in several global markets. We have the ability to acquire additional interests in some of these cost method investees at certain intervals. Depending on our total percentage of ownership interest and our ability to exercise significant influence over financial and operating policies, additional investments may require a retroactive application of the equity method of accounting. 
  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we made a   $25 million   investment in the preferred stock of Square, Inc. In addition, in conjunction with a commercial agreement with Square, we also received warrants to purchase common stock of Square that are subject to certain vesting conditions.  

Note 7:    Supplemental Balance Sheet Information   (in millions) 

On August 8, 2011, we completed the sale of two office buildings for gross consideration of   $125 million  . As a result of this sale, we recognized a   $30.2 million   gain within operating income on the consolidated statements of earnings in fiscal 2011. 
    71 

     Table of Contents  

Note 8:    Other Intangible Assets and Goodwill 
  Other intangible assets   (in millions)  : 

Amortization expense for definite-lived intangibles was   $4.5 million  ,   $2.2 million  , and   $1.2 million   during fiscal   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  , respectively. Amortization expense is estimated to be approximately   $6 million   each year from fiscal   2013   through fiscal   2017  , and a total of approximately   $26 million   thereafter. 
    72 

     Table of Contents  

   Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable operating segment   (in millions)  : 

(1) 
    In conjunction with the change in reportable operating segments, we reclassified goodwill by segment as of October 2, 2011 and October 3, 2010. 
              (2) 
    Other is primarily comprised of changes in the goodwill balance as a result of foreign exchange fluctuations. 

Note 9:    Debt    
    
  Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program 
  In November 2010, we replaced our previous credit facility with a new   $500 million   unsecured credit facility ("the credit facility ) with various banks, of which   $100 million   may be used for issuances of letters of credit. The credit facility is available for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes, including acquisitions and share repurchases and is currently set to mature in   November 2014  . Starbucks has the option, subject to negotiation and agreement with the related banks, to increase the maximum commitment amount by an additional   $500 million  .   No   borrowings were outstanding under the credit facility at the end of fiscal   2012   or fiscal   2011  .The interest rate for any borrowings under the credit facility, based on Starbucks current ratings and fixed charge coverage ratio, is   0.85%   over LIBOR The specific spread over LIBOR will depend upon our long-term credit ratings assigned by Moody s and Standard   Poor s rating agencies and our fixed charge coverage  
    73 

     Table of Contents  

   ratio. The credit facility contains provisions requiring us to maintain compliance with certain covenants, including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, which measures our ability to cover financing expenses. 
  Under our commercial paper program we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes, up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of   $500 million  , with individual maturities that may vary, but not exceed   397 days   from the date of issue. The program is backstopped by the credit facility and the combined borrowing limit is   $500 million   for the commercial paper program and the credit facility. We may issue commercial paper from time to time and the proceeds of the commercial paper financing may be used for working capital needs, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes, including acquisitions and share repurchases.   No   borrowings were outstanding under the commercial paper program at the end of fiscal   2012   or fiscal   2011  . 
  As of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , a total of   $18 million   and   $17 million  , respectively, in letters of credit were outstanding under the respective revolving credit facility. 
    
  Long-term Debt 
  In   August 2007  , we issued   $550 million   of   6.25%   Senior Notes ( the notes ) due in   August 2017  , in an underwritten registered public offering. Interest is payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year. The notes require us to maintain compliance with certain covenants, which limit future liens and sale and leaseback transactions on certain material properties. As of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , we were in compliance with each of these covenants. As of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , the carrying value of the notes, recorded on the consolidated balance sheets, was   $549.6 million   and   $549.5 million  , respectively. 
    
  Interest Expense 
  Interest expense, net of interest capitalized, was   $32.7 million  ,   $33.3 million  , and   $32.7 million   in fiscal   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively. In fiscal   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  ,   $3.2 million  ,   $4.4 million  , and   $4.9 million  , respectively, of interest was capitalized for asset construction projects. 

Note 10:    Leases 
  Rental expense under operating lease agreements   (in millions)  : 

Minimum future rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases as of   September 30, 2012     (in millions)  : 

We have subleases related to certain of our operating leases. During fiscal   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  , we recognized sublease income of   $10.0 million  ,   $13.7 million  , and   $10.9 million  , respectively. 
    
    74 

       Table of Contents  

   Note 11:    Shareholders  Equity 
  In addition to   1.2 billion   shares of authorized common stock with   $0.001   par value per share, we have authorized   7.5 million    shares of preferred stock,   none   of which was outstanding at   September 30, 2012  . 
  Included in additional paid-in capital in our consolidated statements of equity as of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011   is   $39.4 million   related to the increase in value of our share of the net assets of Starbucks Japan at the time of its initial public stock offering in fiscal 2002. 
  Share repurchase activity   (in millions, except for average price data)  : 

As of   September 30, 2012  ,   12.1 million   shares remained available for repurchase under the current authorization. On November 14, 2012, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional   25 million   shares under our share repurchase program. 
  During fiscal years   2012   and   2011  , our Board of Directors declared the following dividends (  in millions, except per share amounts)  : 

Comprehensive Income 
  Comprehensive income includes all changes in equity during the period, except those resulting from transactions with our shareholders. Comprehensive income is comprised of net earnings and other comprehensive income. Accumulated other comprehensive income reported on our consolidated balance sheets consists of foreign currency translation adjustments and the unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable taxes, on available-for-sale securities and on derivative instruments designated and qualifying as cash flow and net investment hedges. 
    75 

       Table of Contents  

   Comprehensive income, net of related tax effects   (in millions)  : 

Components of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax   (in millions)  : 

As of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , the translation adjustment was net of tax provisions of   $6.6 million   and   $3.3 million  , respectively. 

Note 12:    Employee Stock and Benefit Plans 
  We maintain several equity incentive plans under which we may grant non-qualified stock options, incentive stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units ( RSUs ), or stock appreciation rights to employees, non-employee directors and consultants. We issue new shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options and the vesting of RSUs. We also have an employee stock purchase plan ( ESPP ). 
  As of   September 30, 2012  , there were   24.6 million   shares of common stock available for issuance pursuant to future equity-based compensation awards and   8.1 million   shares available for issuance under our ESPP. 
    76 

     Table of Contents  

   Stock based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated financial statements   (in millions)  : 

Stock Option Plans 
  Stock options to purchase our common stock are granted at the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. The majority of options become exercisable in four equal installments beginning a year from the date of grant and generally expire   10 years   from the date of grant. Options granted to non-employee directors generally vest over   one   to   three years  . Nearly all outstanding stock options are non-qualified stock options. 
  The fair value of each stock option granted is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes-Merton ( BSM ) option valuation model. The assumptions used to calculate the fair value of options granted are evaluated and revised, as necessary, to reflect market conditions and our experience. Options granted are valued using the multiple option valuation approach, and the resulting expense is recognized over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award. Compensation expense is recognized only for those options expected to vest, with forfeitures estimated at the date of grant based on our historical experience and future expectations. 
  The fair value of stock option awards was estimated at the grant date with the following weighted average assumptions for fiscal years   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  : 

The expected term of the options represents the estimated period of time until exercise, and is based on historical experience of similar awards, giving consideration to the contractual terms, vesting schedules and expectations of future employee behavior. Expected stock price volatility is based on a combination of historical volatility of our stock and the one-year implied volatility of Starbucks traded options, for the related vesting periods. The risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on US Treasury zero-coupon issues with an equivalent remaining term. The dividend yield assumption is based on the anticipated cash dividend payouts. The amounts shown above for the estimated fair value per option granted are before the estimated effect of forfeitures, which reduce the amount of expense recorded on the consolidated statements of earnings. 
    77 

     Table of Contents  

   The BSM option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. Our employee stock options have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. Because our stock options do not trade on a secondary exchange, employees do not derive a benefit from holding stock options unless there is an increase, above the grant price, in the market price of our stock. Such an increase in stock price would benefit all shareholders commensurately. 
  Stock option transactions from   September 27, 2009   through   September 30, 2012     (in millions, except per share and contractual life amounts)  : 

The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above is the amount by which the market value of the underlying stock exceeded the exercise price of outstanding options, is before applicable income taxes and represents the amount optionees would have realized if all in-the-money options had been exercised on the last business day of the period indicated. 
  The following is a summary of stock options outstanding at the end of fiscal   2012   (shares in millions): 

78 

     Table of Contents  

   As of   September 30, 2012  , total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to nonvested stock options was approximately   $35 million  , before income taxes, and is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately   2.3 years  . The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was   $440 million  ,   $323 million  , and   $118 million   during fiscal years   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  , respectively. The total fair value of options vested was   $59 million  ,   $126 million  , and   $108 million   during fiscal years   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  , respectively. 
    
  RSUs 
  We have both time-vested and performance-based RSUs. Time-vested RSUs are awarded to eligible employees and entitle the grantee to receive shares of common stock at the end of a vesting period, subject solely to the employee s continuing employment. Our performance-based RSUs are awarded to eligible employees and entitle the grantee to receive shares of common stock if we achieve specified performance goals for the full fiscal year in the year of award and the grantee remains employed during the subsequent vesting period. The fair value of RSUs is based on the closing price of Starbucks common stock on the award date. Expense for performance-based RSUs is recognized when it is probable the performance goal will be achieved. 
  RSU transactions from   September 27, 2009   through   September 30, 2012     (in millions, except per share and contractual life amounts)  : 

As of   September 30, 2012  , total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to nonvested RSUs, net of estimated forfeitures, was approximately   $80 million  , before income taxes, and is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately   2.0 years  . 
    
  ESPP 
  Our ESPP allows eligible employees to contribute up to   10%   of their base earnings toward the quarterly purchase of our common stock, subject to an annual maximum dollar amount. The purchase price is   95%   of the fair market value of the stock on the last business day of the quarterly offering period. The number of shares issued under our ESPP was   0.4 million   in fiscal   2012  . 
    
    79 

     Table of Contents  

   Deferred Stock Plan 
  We have a deferred stock plan for certain key-employees that enables participants in the plan to defer receipt of ownership of common shares from the exercise of nonqualified stock options. The minimum deferral period is   5 years  . As of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  ,   3.4 million   shares were deferred under the terms of this plan. The rights to receive these shares, represented by common stock units, are included in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share as common stock equivalents. No new initial deferrals are permitted under this plan; the plan permits re-deferrals of previously deferred shares. 
    
  Defined Contribution Plans 
  We maintain voluntary defined contribution plans, both qualified and non-qualified, covering eligible employees as defined in the plan documents. Participating employees may elect to defer and contribute a portion of their eligible compensation to the plans up to limits stated in the plan documents, not to exceed the dollar amounts set by applicable laws. 
  Our matching contributions to all US and non-US plans were   $59.8 million  ,   $45.5 million  , and   $23.5 million   in fiscal years   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  , respectively. 

Note 13:    Income Taxes 
  The components of earnings before income taxes were as follows   (in millions)  : 

Provision for income taxes   (in millions)  : 

80 

     Table of Contents  

   Reconciliation of the statutory US federal income tax rate with our effective income tax rate: 

(1) 
    Fiscal 2011 includes a benefit of   0.9%   related to the acquisition of the remaining ownership interest in Switzerland and Austria. 
     US income and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on approximately   $1.5 billion   of cumulative undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries and equity investees. We intend to reinvest these earnings for the foreseeable future. If these amounts were distributed to the US, in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional US income taxes, which could be material. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liabilities on these earnings is not practicable because of the complexities with its hypothetical calculation, and the amount of liability, if any, is dependent on circumstances existing if and when remittance occurs. 
    81 

     Table of Contents  

   Tax effect of temporary differences and carryforwards that comprise significant portions of deferred tax assets and liabilities   (in millions): 

We will establish a valuation allowance if either it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will expire before we are able to realize the benefit, or the future deductibility is uncertain. Periodically, the valuation allowance is reviewed and adjusted based on our assessments of the likelihood of realizing the benefit of our deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance as of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011   is primarily related to net operating losses and other deferred tax assets of consolidated foreign subsidiaries. The net change in the total valuation allowance for the years ended   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , was an increase of   $16.8 million   and   $49.3 million  , respectively. During fiscal 2011, we recognized approximately   $32 million   of previously unrecognized deferred tax assets in certain foreign jurisdictions, with a corresponding increase to the valuation allowance due to the uncertainty of their realization. 
    82 

     Table of Contents  

   As of   September 30, 2012  , Starbucks has utilized all of its foreign tax credits and no longer has a foreign tax credit carryforward.     Starbucks has a capital loss carryforward of   $7.1 million  , with an expiration date of   2015  , and foreign net operating losses of   $318 million  , with the predominant amount having no expiration date. 
  Taxes currently payable of   $50.8 million   and   $30.1 million   are included in accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets as of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , respectively. 
    
  Uncertain Tax Positions 
  As of   September 30, 2012  , we had   $75.3 million   of gross unrecognized tax benefits of which   $39.7 million  , if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. We recognize interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. As of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , we had accrued interest and penalties of   $5.5 million   and   $6.2 million  , respectively, before the benefit of the federal tax deduction, recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. 
  The following table summarizes the activity related to our unrecognized tax benefits   (in millions)  : 

We are currently under routine audit by various jurisdictions outside the US as well as US state taxing jurisdictions for fiscal years 2006 through 2011.     We are no longer subject to US federal or state examination for years prior to fiscal year 2009, with the exception of seven states. We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the US. We are no longer subject to examination in any material international markets prior to 2006.  
  There is a reasonable possibility that the unrecognized tax benefits will change within 12 months, but we do not expect this change to be material to the consolidated financial statements. 

Note 14:    Earnings per Share 
  Calculation of net earnings per common share ( EPS )   basic and diluted   (in millions, except EPS)  : 

83 

     Table of Contents  

   Potential dilutive shares consist of the incremental common shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options (both vested and non-vested) and unvested RSUs, calculated using the treasury stock method. The calculation of dilutive shares outstanding excludes out-of-the-money stock options (i.e., such options  exercise prices were greater than the average market price of our common shares for the period) because their inclusion would have been antidilutive. Out-of-the-money stock options totaled   0.2 million  ,   0.1 million  , and   7.9 million   as of   September 30, 2012  ,   October 2, 2011  , and   October 3, 2010  , respectively. 

Note 15:    Commitments and Contingencies 
    
  Legal Proceedings 
  In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, Starbucks notified Kraft Foods Global, Inc. ( Kraft ) that we were discontinuing our distribution arrangement with Kraft on March 1, 2011 due to material breaches by Kraft of its obligations under the Supply and License Agreement between the Company and Kraft, dated March 29, 2004 (the  Agreement ), which defined the main distribution arrangement between the parties. Through our arrangement with Kraft, Starbucks sold a selection of Starbucks and Seattle's Best Coffee branded packaged coffees in grocery and warehouse club stores throughout the US, and to grocery stores in Canada, the UK and other European countries. Kraft managed the distribution, marketing, advertising and promotion of these products.  
  Kraft denies it has materially breached the Agreement. On November 29, 2010, Starbucks received a notice of arbitration from Kraft putting the commercial dispute between the parties into binding arbitration pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. In addition to denying it materially breached the Agreement, Kraft further alleges that if Starbucks wished to terminate the Agreement it must compensate Kraft as provided in the Agreement in an amount equal to the fair value of the Agreement, with an additional premium of up to   35%   under certain circumstances. 
  On December 6, 2010, Kraft commenced a federal court action against Starbucks, entitled   Kraft Foods Global, Inc. v. Starbucks Corporation  , in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the  District Court ) seeking injunctive relief to prevent Starbucks from terminating the distribution arrangement until the parties' dispute is resolved through the arbitration proceeding. On January 28, 2011, the District Court denied Kraft's request for injunctive relief. Kraft appealed the District Court's decision to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. On February 25, 2011, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court's decision. As a result, Starbucks is in full control of our packaged coffee business as of March 1, 2011. 
  While Starbucks believes we have valid claims of material breach by Kraft under the Agreement that allowed us to terminate the Agreement and certain other relationships with Kraft without compensation to Kraft, there exists the possibility of material adverse outcomes to Starbucks in the arbitration or to resolve the matter. Although Kraft disclosed to the press and in federal court filings a   $750 million   offer Starbucks made to Kraft in August 2010 to avoid litigation and ensure a smooth transition of the business, the figure is not a proper basis upon which to estimate a possible outcome of the arbitration but was based upon facts and circumstances at the time. Kraft rejected the offer immediately and did not provide a counter-offer, effectively ending the discussions between the parties with regard to any payment. Moreover, the offer was made prior to our investigation of Kraft's breaches and without consideration of Kraft's continuing failure to comply with material terms of the agreements. 
  On April 2, 2012, Starbucks and Kraft exchanged expert reports regarding alleged damages on their affirmative claims. Starbucks claimed damages of up to   $62.9 million   from the loss of sales resulting from Kraft's failure to use commercially reasonable efforts to market Starbucks        coffee, plus attorney fees. Kraft's expert opined that the fair market value of the Agreement was   $1.9 billion  . After applying a   35%   premium and   9%   interest, Kraft claimed damages of up to   $2.9 billion  , plus attorney fees.  The arbitration hearing commenced on July 11, 2012 and was completed on August 3.  Starbucks presented evidence of material breaches on Kraft's part and sought nominal damages from Kraft for those breaches.  Kraft presented evidence denying it had breached the parties' Agreement and sought damages of   $2.9 billion   plus attorney fees.  We expect a decision from the Arbitrator in the first half of fiscal 2013. 
    84 

     Table of Contents  

   At this time, Starbucks believes an unfavorable outcome with respect to the arbitration is not probable, but as noted above is reasonably possible. As also noted above, Starbucks believes we have valid claims of material breach by Kraft under the Agreement that allowed us to terminate the Agreement without compensation to Kraft. In addition, Starbucks believes Kraft's damage estimates are highly inflated and based upon faulty analysis. As a result, we cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss. Accordingly, no loss contingency has been recorded for this matter. 
  Starbucks is party to various other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, including certain employment litigation cases that have been certified as class or collective actions, but, except as noted above, is not currently a party to any legal proceeding that management believes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Note 16:    Restructuring Charges 
  The restructuring efforts we began in fiscal 2008 to rationalize our store portfolio and the non-retail support organization were completed in fiscal 2010. On a cumulative basis we closed   918   stores on a global basis as part of this effort. 
  Restructuring charges by type of cost for fiscal 2010 were as follows (  in millions  ): 

(1) 
    The remaining liability relates to lease obligations for stores that were previously closed where Starbucks has been unable to terminate the lease or find subtenants for the unused space. 
     For fiscal 2010,   $28.4 million  ,   $24.5 million   and   $0.1 million   of restructuring charges were recorded to the Americas, EMEA, and CAP segments, respectively. 

Note 17:    Segment Reporting 
  Segment information is prepared on the same basis that our management reviews financial information for operational decision-making purposes. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal   2012  , we redefined our reportable operating segments to align with the three-region leadership and organizational structure of our retail business that took effect at the beginning of fiscal   2012  . 
  The three-region structure includes: 1) Americas, inclusive of the US, Canada, and Latin America; 2) Europe, Middle East, and Africa, collectively referred to as the  EMEA  region; and 3) China / Asia Pacific ( CAP ). Our chief executive officer, who is our chief operating decision maker manages these businesses, evaluates financial results, and makes key operating decisions based on the new organizational structure. Accordingly, beginning with the first quarter of fiscal   2012  , we revised our reportable operating segments from 1) US, 2) International, and 3) Global Consumer Products Group to the following   four   reportable segments: 1) Americas, 2) CAP, 3)  
    85 

     Table of Contents  

   EMEA, and 4) Global Consumer Products Group. In the second quarter of fiscal   2012  , we renamed our Global Consumer Products Group segment  Channel Development.  Segment revenues as a percentage of total net revenues for   the year   ended   2012   were as follows: Americas (  75%  ), EMEA (  9%  ), China / Asia Pacific (  5%  ), and Channel Development (  10%  ). 
  Concurrent with the change in reportable operating segments, we revised our prior period financial information to reflect comparable financial information for the new segment structure. Historical financial information presented herein reflects this change. 
  Americas 
  Americas operations sell coffee and other beverages, complementary food, packaged coffees, single serve coffee products and a focused selection of merchandise through company-operated stores and licensed stores. The Americas segment is our most mature business and has achieved significant scale. 
  Europe, Middle East, and Africa 
  EMEA operations sell coffee and other beverages, complementary food, packaged coffees, single serve coffee products and a focused selection of merchandise through company-operated stores and licensed stores. Certain markets within EMEA operations are in the early stages of development and require a more extensive support organization, relative to the current levels of revenue and operating income, than Americas. 
  China / Asia Pacific 
  China /Asia Pacific operations sell coffee and other beverages, complementary food, packaged coffees, single serve coffee products and a focused selection of merchandise through company-operated stores and licensed stores. Certain markets within China / Asia Pacific operations are in the early stages of development and require a more extensive support organization, relative to the current levels of revenue and operating income, than Americas. 
  Channel Development 
  Channel Development operations sell a selection of packaged coffees as well as a selection of premium Tazo        teas globally. Channel Development operations also produce and sell a variety of ready-to-drink beverages, Starbucks VIA        Ready Brew, Starbucks        coffee and Tazo        tea K-Cup        portion packs, Starbucks        ice creams, and Starbucks Refreshers  beverages. The US foodservice business, which is included in the Channel Development segment, sells coffee and other related products to institutional foodservice companies. 
  Other 
  Other includes Seattle s Best Coffee, Evolution Fresh, Digital Ventures, and unallocated corporate expenses that pertain to corporate administrative functions that support the operating segments but are not specifically attributable to or managed by any segment, and are not included in the reported financial results of the operating segments. 
    86 

     Table of Contents  

   Revenue mix by product type   (in millions)  : 

(1) 
    Other includes royalty and licensing revenues, beverage-related ingredients, packaging and other merchandise. 
     Information by geographic area (  in millions  ): 

No   customer accounts for   10%   or more of our revenues. Revenues are shown based on the geographic location of our customers. Revenues from countries other than the US consist primarily of revenues from Canada, UK, and China, which together account for approximately   64%   of net revenues from other countries for fiscal 2012. 

Management evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on net revenues and operating income. The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies in Note 1. Operating income represents earnings before net interest income and other and income taxes. Management does not evaluate the performance of its operating segments using asset measures. The identifiable assets by segment disclosed in this note are those assets specifically identifiable within each segment and include net property, plant and equipment, equity and cost investments, goodwill, and other intangible assets. Corporate assets are primarily comprised of cash and investments, assets of the corporate headquarters and roasting facilities, and inventory. 
    
    87 

     Table of Contents  

   The tables below presents financial information for our reportable operating segments and Other for the years ended   September 30, 2012  ,   October 2, 2011  , and   October 3, 2010   including the reclassifications discussed in Note 1 (  in millions  ): 

The following table reconciles the total of operating income in the table above to consolidated earnings before income taxes   (in millions)  : 

Note 18:    Subsequent Event  
  In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we signed an agreement to acquire 100% of the outstanding shares of Teavana Holdings, Inc., a specialty retailer of premium loose-leaf teas, authentic artisanal teawares and other tea-related merchandise, for approximately   $620 million   in cash. The acquisition is expected to close by   December 31, 2012  , subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions. 
    
    88 

       Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Starbucks Corporation 
  Seattle, Washington 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , and the related consolidated statements of earnings, equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   September 30, 2012  . These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries as of   September 30, 2012   and   October 2, 2011  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   September 30, 2012  , in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   September 30, 2012  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated   November 16, 2012   expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 
    
  /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 
  Seattle, Washington 
  November 16, 2012    
    89 

       Table of Contents  

            Item 9. 
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
     Not applicable. 
      
           Item 9A. 
    Controls and Procedures 
       
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that material information required to be disclosed in our periodic reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms. Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
  During the fourth quarter of fiscal   2012  , we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective, as of the end of the period covered by this report (  September 30, 2012  ). 
  There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during our most recently completed fiscal quarter that materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect internal control over financial reporting. 
  The certifications required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as exhibits 31.1 and 31.2, respectively, to this 10-K. 
    
  Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of our financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of company assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected. 
  Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework and criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework  , issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. This evaluation included review of the documentation of controls, evaluation of the design effectiveness of controls, testing of the operating effectiveness of controls and a conclusion on this evaluation. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of   September 30, 2012  . 
  Our internal control over financial reporting as of   September 30, 2012  , has been audited by Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein. 
    
    90 

       Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Starbucks Corporation 
  Seattle, Washington 
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of   September 30, 2012  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   September 30, 2012  , based on the criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended   September 30, 2012  , of the Company and our report dated   November 16, 2012   expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. 
    
  /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 
  Seattle, Washington 
  November 16, 2012    
    
    91 

       Table of Contents  

            Item 9B. 
    Other Information 
       
  On   November 13, 2012   the Starbucks Board of Directors approved an amendment to Article X of the Company's amended and restated bylaws (as amended, the  Amended Bylaws ) to read as follows: 
  ARTICLE X. AMENDMENTS    
  These bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, and new bylaws may be adopted, by the Board of Directors or shareholders by action taken in the manner provided by the WBCA, the Articles of Incorporation and these bylaws.  
  Prior to the amendment, Article X of the Company's amended and restated bylaws read as follows:   These bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, and new bylaws may be adopted, by the Board of Directors only upon a vote of two-thirds of the Board of Directors.   
  The Amended Bylaws became effective on   November 13, 2012  . The Amended Bylaws are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2. 

92 

       Table of Contents  

   PART III 
      
           Item 10. 
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
     Information regarding our executive officers is set forth in Item 1 of Part 1 of this Report under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant.  
  We adopted a code of ethics applicable to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, controller and other finance leaders, which is a  code of ethics  as defined by applicable rules of the SEC. This code is publicly available on our website at www.starbucks.com/about-us/company-information/corporate-governance. If we make any amendments to this code other than technical, administrative or other non-substantive amendments, or grant any waivers, including implicit waivers, from a provision of this code to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or controller, we will disclose the nature of the amendment or waiver, its effective date and to whom it applies on our website at http://www.starbucks.com/about-us/company-information/corporate-governance or in a report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. 
  The remaining information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Proposal 1   Election of Directors  and  Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,   Corporate Governance   Board Committees and Related Matters  and  Corporate Governance   Audit Committee  in our definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on   March 20, 2013   (the  Proxy Statement ). 

Item 11. 
    Executive Compensation 
     The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the sections entitled  Executive Compensation,   Compensation of Directors,   Corporate Governance   Compensation Committee  and "Compensation Committee Report" in the Proxy Statement. 

Item 12. 
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 
     The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the sections entitled  Equity Compensation Plan Information  and  Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock in the Proxy Statement. 

Item 13. 
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
     The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  and  Corporate Governance   Affirmative Determinations Regarding Director Independence and Other Matters  in the Proxy Statement. 

Item 14. 
    Principal Accounting Fees and Services 
     The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the sections entitled  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Fees  and  Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in the Proxy Statement. 
    
    93 

       Table of Contents  

   PART IV 
      
           Item 15. 
    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
     (a) The following documents are filed as a part of this 10-K: 
      
  1.    Financial Statements 
  The following financial statements are included in Part II, Item 8 of this 10-K: 
                 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; and 
                
    Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
         
  2.    Financial Statement Schedules 
  Financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not required or are not applicable, or the required information is provided in the consolidated financial statements or notes described in Item 15(a)(1) above. 
      
  3.    Exhibits 
  The Exhibits listed in the Index to Exhibits, which appears immediately following the signature page and is incorporated herein by reference, are filed as part of this 10-K. 
    94 

       Table of Contents  

   SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.                     

STARBUCKS CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/    Howard Schultz 

Howard Schultz 
  chairman, president and chief executive officer 

November 16, 2012    
  POWER OF ATTORNEY 
  Know all persons by these presents, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Howard Schultz and Troy Alstead, and each of them, as such person s true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for such person and in such person s name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Report, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as such person might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or their or such person s substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue thereof. 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated as of   November 16, 2012  .                            
      
    Signature 
      
    Title 

By: 
      
    /s/    Howard Schultz 
      
    chairman, president and chief executive officer 

Howard Schultz 

By: 
      
    /s/    Troy Alstead 
      
    chief financial officer and chief administrative officer (principal financial officer and principal accounting officer) 

Troy Alstead 

By: 
      
    /s/    William W. Bradley 
      
    director 

William W. Bradley 

By: 
      
    /s/    Robert M. Gates 
      
    director 

Robert M. Gates 

By: 
      
    /s/    Mellody Hobson 
      
    director 

Mellody Hobson 

By: 
      
    /s/    Kevin R. Johnson 
      
    director 

Kevin R. Johnson 

By: 
      
    /s/    Olden Lee 
      
    director 

Olden Lee 

95 

       Table of Contents  

Signature 
      
    Title 

By: 
      
    /s/    Joshua Cooper Ramo 
      
    director 

Joshua Cooper Ramo 

By: 
      
    /s/    James G. Shennan, Jr. 
      
    director 

James G. Shennan, Jr. 

By: 
      
    /s/    Clara Shih 
      
    director 

Clara Shih 

By: 
      
    /s/    Javier G. Teruel 
      
    director 

Javier G. Teruel 

By: 
      
    /s/    Myron E. Ullman, III 
      
    director 

Myron E. Ullman, III 

By: 
      
    /s/    Craig E. Weatherup 
      
    director 

Craig E. Weatherup 

96 

       Table of Contents  

   INDEX TO EXHIBITS   

    97 

       Table of Contents  

98 

       Table of Contents  

99 

       Table of Contents  

Incorporated by Reference 

Exhibit 
  Number 
      
    Exhibit Description 
      
    Form 
      
    File No. 
      
    Date of 
  First Filing 
      
    Exhibit 
  Number 
      
    Filed 
  Herewith 
      32** 
       
    Certifications of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

101 
       
    The following financial statements from the Company s 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, formatted in XBRL: (i) Consolidated Statements of Earnings, (ii) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (iv) Consolidated Statements of Equity (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

X 

*     Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
  **Furnished herewith. 

100 

<EX-3.2>
 2
 sbux-93012xex32.htm
 AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS OF STARBUCKS CORPORATION

SBUX - 9.30.12 - EX 3.2 

Exhibit 3.2 
    
  AMENDED AND RESTATED 
  BYLAWS 
  OF 
  STARBUCKS CORPORATION    
  (As amended and restated through November 13, 2012)    
  ARTICLE I. SHAREHOLDERS    
    Section 1.1        Annual Meeting  . The annual meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation shall be held each year on a date between January l and June 30, with a specific date and time to be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.  The failure to hold an annual meeting at the time stated in these bylaws does not affect the validity of any corporate action.  At each annual meeting of shareholders, the shareholders shall elect directors as set forth in Section 2.1 hereof and in the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting as provided in Section 1.3 of these bylaws. 
    Section 1.2        Special Meetings  . Special meetings of the shareholders may be held upon call of the Board of Directors or of the President and shall be called by the Board of Directors or the President upon the delivery of a written demand of the holders of record of ten percent of the outstanding stock entitled to vote on any issue proposed to be considered at the proposed special meeting to the Secretary of the Corporation (such demand being referred to as a "  Demand  "). 
    Section 1.3        Nominations and Business at Annual and Special Meetings  . Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders at an annual or special meeting of shareholders may be made only:  
  (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Section 1.5 of these bylaws; 
  (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof);  
  (c) in the case of an annual meeting, by any shareholder entitled to vote at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in Section 1.10 of these bylaws; or 
    1 

(d) in the case of a special meeting:  
  (i) called pursuant to a Demand for a special meeting delivered in accordance with Section 1.2 of these bylaws, as specified in such Demand by the shareholder(s) making such Demand who shall have complied with the notice procedures set forth in Section 1.10 of these bylaws; or  
  (ii) called by the Corporation other than pursuant to a Demand, if directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Section 1.5 of these bylaws, then nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made by any shareholder entitled to vote at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in Section 1.10 of these bylaws.  Any such shareholder may nominate such number of persons for election to the Board of Directors as is less than or equal to the number of position(s) as are specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting. 
  Clauses (c) and (d) of this Section 1.3 shall be the exclusive means for a shareholder to make nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors or submit other business before a meeting of shareholders.  The notice procedures set forth in Section 1.10 of these bylaws shall be deemed satisfied by a shareholder who seeks to have the shareholder's proposal included in the Corporation's proxy statement and identified as a proposal in the Corporation's form of proxy pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("  Exchange Act  ") if such shareholder complies with the provisions of that Rule. 
    Section 1.4        Meeting Place  . All meetings of the shareholders shall be held at a location determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, and the place at which any such meeting shall be held shall be stated in the notice of the meeting. 
    Section 1.5        Notice of Meetings  . Written notice or electronic notice in accordance with Article IX of the time and place of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be delivered personally, mailed or electronically transmitted pursuant to Article IX not less than ten days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each shareholder of record entitled to vote, at the address appearing upon the stock transfer books of the Corporation or to the electronic address of each shareholder as communicated by such shareholder to the Corporation pursuant to Article IX.  If the shareholders will be voting 
    2 

on (i) an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation, (ii) a plan of merger or share exchange, (iii) the sale of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets, or (iv) the dissolution of the Corporation, notice shall be delivered personally, mailed or electronically transmitted pursuant to Article IX not less than 20 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting.  
    Section 1.6        Quorum and Required Vote; Adjournment  . Except as otherwise required by law: 
  (a) A quorum at any annual or special meeting of shareholders shall consist of shareholders representing, either in person or by proxy, a majority of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting.  If a quorum is not present, the holders of a majority of the shares so present or represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum is present. 
  (b) If a quorum exists, action on a matter is approved by a voting group if the votes cast within the voting group favoring the action exceed the votes cast within the voting group opposing the action, unless the question is one upon which by express provision of the Washington Business Corporation Act, as amended ("  WBCA  "), the Articles of Incorporation, these bylaws or a condition imposed by the Board of Directors, a different vote is required. 
  (c) Whether or not a quorum exists, the Chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares present may adjourn the meeting from time to time.  No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by applicable law. 
    Section 1.7        Organization of Meetings  . Meetings of the shareholders shall be presided over by the President, but if the President is not present, then by a Vice President. If neither the President nor a Vice President is present, by a chairman designated by the Board of Directors (the person presiding over the meeting is referred to in these bylaws as the "  Chairman  " of the meeting).  The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary of the meeting, if present.  
    Section 1.8        Proxies  . At all meetings of shareholders, a shareholder may vote by proxy.  A shareholder may appoint a proxy to vote for the shareholder by submission of (a) an appointment form signed by the shareholder or the shareholder's attorney-in- 
    3 

fact, or (b) an electronic transmission sent in accordance with the provisions for electronic notice under Article IX.  An appointment of proxy is effective when an appointment form or an electronic transmission (or documentary evidence thereof, including verification information) is received by the person authorized to tabulate votes for the Corporation. The proxy has the same power to vote as that possessed by the shareholder, unless the appointment form or electronic transmission contains an express limitation on the power to vote or direction as to how to vote the shares on a particular matter, in which event the Corporation must tabulate the votes in a manner consistent with that limitation or direction.  No proxy shall be valid after eleven months from the date of its execution, unless otherwise provided in the appointment form or electronic transmission.  Any proxy regular on its face shall be presumed to be valid. 
    Section 1.9        List of Shareholders  . At least ten days before each meeting of shareholders, a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting, or any adjournment thereof, shall be made.  Such list shall be arranged in alphabetical order with the address of and number of shares held by each shareholder.  Such record shall be kept on file at the principal office of the Corporation for a period of ten days prior to such meeting.  The record shall be produced and kept open at the time and place of such meeting for the inspection of any shareholder.  Failure to comply with the requirements of this section shall not affect the validity of any action taken at such meeting.  
    Section 1.10        Notice of Shareholder Business to be Conducted at a Meeting of Shareholders  . In order for a shareholder to properly bring any nomination of a person for election to the Board of Directors or other item of business before a meeting of shareholders, such shareholder (the "  Noticing Shareholder  ") must give timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation, and, in the case of business other than nominations, such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for shareholder action.  This Section 1.10 shall constitute an "advance notice provision" for purposes of Rule 14a-4(c)(1), promulgated under the Exchange Act.  
  (a) To be timely, a Noticing Shareholder's notice (which, in the case of a shareholder making a Demand for a special meeting, shall be the Noticing Shareholder's Demand) shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation: 
    4 

(i) as to an annual meeting, not earlier than the close of business on the 150th day and not later than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 150th day prior to the date of such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 120th day prior to the date of such annual meeting or, if the first public announcement (as defined below) of the date of such annual meeting is less than 100 days prior to the date of such annual meeting, the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation;  
  (ii) as to a special meeting called pursuant to a Demand, not later than the close of business on the date of delivery of the first shareholder demand in compliance with 23B.07.020 of the WCBA; or 
  (iii) as to a special meeting called by the Corporation other than pursuant to a Demand, at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Section 1.5 of these bylaws, not later than the earlier of the 10th day following the mailing of definitive proxy materials with respect to the meeting or the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting is first made by the Corporation.  
  In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual or special meeting, or the public announcement thereof, commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. 
  (b) To be in proper form, a Noticing Shareholder's notice to the Secretary (which, in the case of a shareholder making a Demand for a special meeting, shall be the Noticing Shareholder's Demand) must: 
  (i) set forth and include the following information and/or documents, as applicable: 
    5 

(A) the name and address of such Noticing Shareholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and the name and address of each Beneficial Owner (as defined below); 
  (B) representations that, as of the date of delivery of such notice, such Noticing Shareholder is a holder of record of shares of the Corporation and is entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at such meeting to propose such nomination or business; 
  (C) (1) the name of each individual, firm, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, trust or other entity (including any successor thereto, a "  Person  ") with whom the Noticing Shareholder, Beneficial Owner, Shareholder Nominee (as defined below), and their respective Affiliates and Associates (as defined under Regulation 12B under the Exchange Act or any successor provision thereto) (each of the foregoing, a "  Shareholder Group Member  ") and each other Person with whom such Shareholder Group Member is acting in concert with respect to the Corporation (each Person described in this clause (1), including each Shareholder Group Member, a "  Covered Person  ") has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether written or oral) for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except pursuant to a revocable proxy given to such Person in response to a public proxy solicitation made generally by such Person to all holders of shares of the Corporation entitled to vote at the meeting (collectively, "  Voting Stock  ")) or disposing of any Voting Stock or to cooperate in obtaining, changing or influencing the control of the Corporation (except independent financial, legal and other advisors acting in the ordinary course of their respective businesses), and a description of each such agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether written or oral), (2) a list of the class and number of shares of Voting Stock that are Beneficially Owned or owned of record by each Covered Person, together with documentary evidence of such record or Beneficial Ownership, (3) a list of (A) all of the derivative securities (as defined under Rule 16a-1 under the Exchange Act) and other derivatives or similar agreements or arrangements with an exercise or conversion privilege or a periodic or settlement payment or payments or mechanism at a price or in an amount or amounts related to any security of the Corporation or with a value derived or calculated in whole or in part from the value of any security of the Corporation, in  
    6 

each case, directly or indirectly owned of record or Beneficially Owned by any Covered Person and (B) each other direct or indirect opportunity of any Covered Person to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of any security of the Corporation, in each case, regardless of whether (x) such interest conveys any voting rights in such security to such Covered Person, (y) such interest is required to be, or is capable of being, settled through delivery of such security or (z) such Person may have entered into other transactions that hedge the economic effect of such interest (any such interest described in this clause (3) being a "  Derivative Interest  "), (4) a description of each agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether written or oral) with the effect or intent of increasing or decreasing the voting power of, or that contemplates any Person voting together with, any Covered Person with respect to any Voting Stock, Shareholder Nominee or other proposal ("  Voting Arrangements  "), (5) details of all other material interests of each Covered Person in such nomination or proposal or capital stock of the Corporation (including any rights to dividends or performance related fees based on any increase or decrease in the value of such capital stock or Derivative Interests) (collectively, "  Other Interests  "), (6) a description of all economic terms of all such Derivative Interests, Voting Arrangements and Other Interests and copies of all agreements and other documents (including but not limited to master agreements, confirmations and all ancillary documents and the names and details of the counterparties to, and brokers involved in, all such transactions) relating to each such Derivative Interest, Voting Arrangement and Other Interests, (7) a list of all transactions by each Covered Person involving any Voting Stock or any Derivative Interests, Voting Arrangements or Other Interests within 6 months prior to the date of the notice and (8) a representation whether any Covered Person intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect any Shareholder Nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit or participate in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders of the Corporation in support of such nomination or proposal.  A notice delivered by or on behalf of any Noticing Shareholder under this Section 1.10(b) shall be deemed to be not in compliance with this Section 1.10(b) and not effective if (x) such notice does not include all of the information and  
    7 

documents required under this Section 1.10(b) or (y) after delivery of such notice, any information or document required to be included in such notice changes or is amended, modified or supplemented, as applicable, prior to the date of the relevant meeting and such information and/or document is not delivered to the Corporation by way of a further written notice as promptly as practicable following the event causing such change in information or amendment, modification or supplement, as applicable, and in any case where such event occurs within 45 days of the date of the relevant meeting, within five business days after such event; provided, however, that the Board of Directors shall have the authority to waive any such non-compliance if the Board of Directors determines that such action is appropriate in the exercise of its fiduciary duties; 
  (ii) if the notice relates to any business other than a nomination of a director or directors that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, such notice must also set forth: 
  (A) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest of such Noticing Shareholder in such business; 
  (B) the text of the proposal (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and, in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend these bylaws, the text of the proposed amendment); and 
  (C) the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting; 
  (iii) if the notice relates to the nomination of a director or directors, such notice must also set forth, as to each person whom the Noticing Shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection to the Board of Directors (a "  Shareholder Nominee  "): 
  (A) all information relating to such Shareholder Nominee that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and 
  (B) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and  
    8 

any other material relationships, between or among, any Covered Person, on the one hand, and each proposed Shareholder Nominee, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if any Covered Person, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; and 
  (iv) with respect to each Shareholder Nominee, the notice must also include a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 1.11 of these bylaws. 
  The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable shareholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee. 
  (c) Notwithstanding anything in Section 1.10(a)(i) of this bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a Noticing Shareholder's notice required by this bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation and such notice otherwise complies with the requirements of this Section 1.10. 
  (d) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this bylaw shall be eligible to be elected as directors at a meeting of shareholders and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this bylaw.  Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these bylaws, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a  
    9 

nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.  The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of meetings of shareholders as it shall deem appropriate.  Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman shall have the right and authority to convene and adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of the Chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting.  Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the Chairman, may include the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to shareholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the Board of Directors or the Chairman shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants.  Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the Chairman, meetings of shareholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.10, unless otherwise required by applicable law, if the Noticing Shareholder (or a qualified representative of the Noticing Shareholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of shareholders to present a nomination or proposed business previously put forward by or on behalf of such Noticing Shareholder or, immediately prior to the commencement of such meeting, such Noticing Shareholder does not provide a written certification to the Corporation on and as of the date of the applicable meeting that such Noticing Shareholder and each Covered Person, if any, is then in compliance with this Section 1.10, then such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation.  For purposes of this Section 1.10, to be considered a  
    10 

qualified representative of the Noticing Shareholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such Noticing Shareholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such Noticing Shareholder and each Covered Person, if any, or an electronic transmission delivered by such Noticing Shareholder and each Covered Person, if any, to act for such Noticing Shareholder and each Covered Person, if any, as proxy at the meeting of shareholders and to provide such certification on behalf of the Noticing Shareholder and each Person required pursuant to this Section 1.10 and such Person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of shareholders.  Nothing in this bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights of (a) shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (b) holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Articles of Incorporation. 
  (e) For purposes of this bylaw, a Person shall be deemed the "  Beneficial Owner  " of, shall be deemed to "  Beneficially Own  " and shall be deemed to have "  Beneficial Ownership  " of, any Voting Stock (i) that such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates (as defined under Regulation 12B under the Exchange Act or any successor provision thereto) is deemed to "beneficially own" within the meaning of Section 13(d) of, and Regulation 13D under, the Exchange Act or any successor provision thereto, or (ii) that is the subject of, or the reference security for or that underlies any Derivative Interest of such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates (as defined under Regulation 12B under the Exchange Act or any successor provision thereto), with the number of shares of Voting Stock deemed Beneficially Owned being the notional or other number of shares of Voting Stock specified in the documentation evidencing the Derivative Interest as being subject to be acquired upon the exercise or settlement of the Derivative Interest or as the basis upon which the value or settlement amount of such Derivative Interest is to be calculated in whole or in part or, if no such number of shares of Voting Stock is specified in such documentation, as determined by the Board of Directors in good faith to be the number of shares of Voting Stock to which the Derivative Interest relates.  When two or more Persons act as a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate, or other group, or otherwise act in concert, in each case, for the  
    11 

purpose of acquiring, holding, or disposing of securities of the Corporation or for the purpose of proposing one or more Shareholder Nominees, putting forward any other proposal for consideration or voting together on any matter presented at a shareholder meeting, such syndicate or group shall be deemed a "Person" for the purpose of this definition.  In addition, any Person who, directly or indirectly, creates or uses a trust, proxy, power of attorney, pooling arrangement or any contract, arrangement, or device with the purpose or effect of divesting such Person of Beneficial Ownership of any Voting Stock or preventing the vesting of such Beneficial Ownership as part of a plan or scheme to evade the reporting requirements of this Section 1.10 shall be deemed for the purposes of this bylaw to be the Beneficial Owner of such Voting Stock. 
  (f) For purposes of this bylaw, "  public announcement  " shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by a national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. 
  (g) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this bylaw, a Noticing Shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this bylaw; provided, however, that any references in these bylaws to the Exchange Act or the rules promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit the requirements applicable to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to Section 1.10 or Section 1.3 of these bylaws. 
    Section 1.11        Submission of Questionnaire, Representation and Agreement  . To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation pursuant to a nomination of a Noticing Shareholder, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section 1.10 of these bylaws) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person: 
    12 

(a) is not and will not become a party to: 
  (i) any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether written or oral) with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "  Voting Commitment  ") that has not been disclosed in writing to the Corporation, or 
  (ii) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, 
  (b) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether written or oral) with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed in writing to the Corporation, and 
  (c) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation. 
  ARTICLE II. DIRECTORS 
    Section 2.1        Number, Election, and Powers  . 
  (a) All corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the authority of, and the business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation.  The Board of Directors shall consist of nine members.  The number of directors may be changed by a resolution of the Board of Directors or by a vote of the shareholders at the annual shareholders' meeting. 
  (b) All directors shall be elected for terms lasting until the next annual meeting of shareholders following their election, and until their successors are elected and qualified, subject to their earlier death, resignation, removal from the Board of Directors or end of their respective term pursuant to subsection (d) of this Section 2.1. 
    13 

(c) Directors need not be shareholders or residents of the state of Washington.  In addition to the powers and authorities expressly conferred upon the Corporation by these bylaws and the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Articles of Incorporation or by these bylaws directed or required to be exercised or done by the shareholders. 
  (d) Except as provided in this Section 2.1(d), a nominee for director shall be elected if the votes cast for such nominee's election exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election.  The following shall not be votes cast: (a) a share whose ballot is marked as abstain; (b) a share otherwise present at the meeting but for which there is an abstention; and (c) a share otherwise present at the meeting as to which a shareholder gives no authority or direction.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast in a "contested election" at any meeting of shareholders.      A nominee for director in an election, other than a contested election, who does not receive the requisite votes for election, but who was a director at the time of the election, shall continue to serve as a director for a term that shall terminate on the date that is the earliest of: (i) ninety (90) days from the date on which the voting results of the election are certified, (ii) the date on which an individual is selected by the Board of Directors to fill the office held by such director (which selection shall be deemed to constitute the filling of a vacancy by the Board of Directors), or (iii) the date the director resigns.  A "contested election" is one in which (i) on the last day for delivery of a notice under Section 1.10(a), a Noticing Shareholder has complied with the requirements of Section 1.10 with respect to one or more nominees; and (ii) there is a bona fide election contest, as evidenced by an affirmative determination of the Board of Directors to that effect (the failure by the Board of Directors to make any determination to the contrary being deemed an affirmative determination).  This bylaw is intended to implement RCW 23B.10.205.  For purposes of clarity and to resolve any ambiguity under RCW 23B.10.205, it is assumed that for purposes of determining the number of director nominees, on the last day for delivery of a notice under Section 1.10(a), there is a candidate nominated by the Board of Directors for each of the director positions to be voted on at the meeting.  Nothing in this bylaw is intended to limit the authority of the Board of Directors to  
    14 

determine that a bona fide election contest does not exist, in which event it shall disclose the applicable voting regime in the notice of meeting or, if such determination occurs after such notice has been sent, send a new notice which shall include disclosure of the applicable voting regime. 
    Section 2.2            Vacancies  . Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, whether caused by resignation, death, increase in size, or non-election of a director pursuant to Section 2.1 of these bylaws or otherwise, may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. A director elected to fill any vacancy shall hold office until the next election of directors by the shareholders. 
    Section 2.3        Quorum  . A majority of the members of the Board of Directors then holding office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall have been obtained. 
    Section 2.4        Removal of Directors  . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Articles of Incorporation, at a meeting of shareholders called expressly for that purpose at which a quorum exists, the entire Board of Directors or any member thereof may be removed with or without cause only if the number of votes cast to remove the director exceeds the number of votes cast not to remove the director. 
    Section 2.5        Regular Meetings  .  
  (a) Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held from time to time at the principal place of business of the Corporation or at such other place or places, either within or without the state of Washington, as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. 
  (b) Regular meetings of any committee designated by the Board of Directors may be held at the principal place of business of the Corporation or at such other place or places, either within or without the state of Washington as such committee may from time to time designate.  The schedule for meetings of any committee shall be set by said committee. 
    15 

Section 2.6        Special Meetings  . 
  (a) Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called at any time by the President, Secretary or by any one director, to be held at the principal place of business of the Corporation or at such other place or places as the Board of Directors or the person or persons calling such meeting may from time to time designate. 
  (b) Special meetings of any committee may be called at any time by such person or persons and with such notice as shall be specified for such committee by the Board of Directors, or in the absence of such specification, in the manner and with the notice required for special meetings of the Board of Directors. 
    Section 2.7        Notice of Special Meetings  . Notice of each special meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee shall be given in a manner described in Article IX to each director at least two days before the meeting. The notice of any special meeting shall identify the business to be transacted at or the purpose of the special meeting as well as the time and place of the meeting.  Notice may be waived in writing before or after the time of the meeting, and will be waived by any director by his or her attendance at such meeting unless at the beginning of the meeting such director objects to the meeting or the transaction of business at such meeting.  Any director waiving his or her right to notice shall be bound by the proceedings of any such meeting in all respects as if due notice thereof had been given. 
    Section 2.8        Committees  . The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, appoint various committees consisting of two or more members, including an Executive Committee, which shall have and may exercise such powers as shall be conferred or authorized by the resolution appointing such committee.  A majority of any such committee, composed of more than two members, may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide.  The Board of Directors shall have the power at any time to change the members of any such committee, to fill vacancies, and to discharge any such committee.  
    Section 2.9        Action by Directors Without a Meeting  . Any action required or which might be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing or electronically transmitted in  
    16 

accordance with Article IX, setting forth the action so taken or to be taken, shall be signed or provided by all of the directors, or all of the members of the committee, as the case may be.  Such consent shall be filed in the Corporation's minute book, or with the records of the committee so acting. 
    Section 2.10        Meeting by Telephone  . Members of the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the bylaws or appointed by the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of such Board of Directors or committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other at the same time, and participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at a meeting. 
  ARTICLE III. OFFICERS    
    Section 3.1        Election or Appointment  . The Board of Directors shall appoint a President and a Secretary, and may appoint a Chairman of the Board, one or more Vice Presidents, a Treasurer and such Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers as it may deem proper.  Any two or more offices may be held by the same person, except the offices of President and Secretary.  The Board of Directors may authorize any duly appointed officer to appoint one or more officers or assistant officers.  
    Section 3.2        Term  . The term of office of all officers shall be one year or until their respective successors are appointed or their death, retirement or removal as provided in Section 3.3. 
    Section 3.3        Removal  . Any officer appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed with or without cause by the Board of Directors or the duly appointed superior officer to which such officer reports, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.  
    Section 3.4        Vacancies  . A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause, may be filled by the Board of Directors or by a duly appointed superior officer.  
    Section 3.5        Delegation  . In the case of the absence or inability to act of any officer of the Corporation and of any person herein authorized to act in such person's place, the Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers or duties of such officer to any other officer, employee or agent. 
    17 

Section 3.6        Bonds  . The Board of Directors may, by resolution, require any or all of the officers to give bonds to the Corporation, with sufficient surety or sureties, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their respective offices, and to comply with such other conditions as may from time to time be required by the Board of Directors.  
    Section 3.7        President  . The President shall be the principal executive officer of the Corporation and, subject to the Board of Directors' control, shall supervise and control all of the business and affairs of the Corporation.  When present, the President shall preside over all meetings of shareholders and directors.  With the Secretary or other officer of the Corporation authorized by the Board of Directors, he or she may sign certificates for shares of the Corporation, deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts, or other instruments that the Board of Directors has authorized to be executed, except when the signing and execution thereof has been expressly delegated by the Board of Directors or by these bylaws to some other officer or agent of the Corporation or is required by law to be otherwise signed or executed by some other officer or in some other manner.  In general, he or she shall perform all duties incident to the office of President and such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors from time to time.  
    Section 3.8        Secretary  . The Secretary shall: (a) keep the minutes of shareholders' and Board of Directors' meetings in one or more books provided for that purpose; (b) see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these bylaws or as required by law; (c) have responsibility for maintaining the corporate records and the seal of the Corporation and see that the seal of the Corporation is affixed to all documents, as appropriate, the execution of which on behalf of the Corporation under its seal is duly authorized; (d) sign with the Chairman, President or other officer of the Corporation authorized by the Board of Directors certificates for shares of the Corporation, the issuance of which have been authorized by resolution of the Board of Directors; (e) have general responsibility for the stock transfer books of the Corporation; and (f) in general perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the President or by the Board of Directors. 
    18 

ARTICLE IV. CONTRACTS, LOANS, CHECKS AND DEPOSITS    
    Section 4.1        Contracts  . The Board of Directors may authorize any officer, employee or agent to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation.   
    Section 4.2        Checks, Drafts, Etc  . All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Corporation, shall be signed by such officer, employee or agent of the Corporation and in such manner as is from time to time determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.  
  ARTICLE V. CERTIFICATES FOR SHARES AND THEIR TRANSFER    
    Section 5.1        Issuance of Shares  . No shares of the Corporation shall be issued unless authorized by or under the direction of the Board of Directors.  Such authorization shall include the maximum number of shares to be issued and the consideration to be received for each share.  No certificate shall be issued for any share until such share is fully paid.  
    Section 5.2        Certificates for Shares  . Certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board or the President and by the Secretary and shall include on their face written notice of any restrictions which the Board of Directors may impose on the transferability of such shares.  All certificates shall be consecutively numbered or otherwise identified.  The name and address of the person to whom the shares represented thereby are issued, with the number of shares and date of issue, shall be entered on the stock transfer books of the Corporation.  All certificates surrendered to the Corporation for transfer shall be canceled and no new certificate shall be issued until the former certificates for a like number of shares shall have been surrendered and canceled except that in case of a lost, destroyed or mutilated certificate, a new one may be issued therefor upon such terms and indemnity to the Corporation as the Board of Directors may prescribe. 
    Section 5.3        Transfers  . 
  (a) Transfers of shares shall be made only upon the share transfer books of the Corporation, kept at the registered office of the Corporation or at its principal place of business, or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar, and before a new certificate is  
    19 

issued the old certificate shall be surrendered for cancellation.  The Board of Directors may, by resolution, open a share register in any state of the United States, and may employ an agent or agents to keep such register, and to record transfers of shares therein.  
  (b) Shares shall be transferred by delivery of the certificates therefor, accompanied either by an assignment in writing on the back of the certificate or an assignment separate from certificate, or by a written power of attorney to sell, assign and transfer the same, signed by the holder of said certificate.  No shares of stock shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation until the outstanding certificates therefor have been surrendered to the Corporation or appropriate instructions as prescribed by the Corporation for uncertificated shares have been received.  The Board of Directors may, by resolution, adopt appropriate procedures to allow transfers of shares, the certificates for which have been lost, stolen, mutilated or destroyed. 
    Section 5.4        Restriction on Transfer  . All certificates representing unregistered shares of the Corporation shall bear an appropriate restrictive legend on the face of the certificate or on the reverse of the certificate.  
    Section 5.5        Uncertificated Shares  . The shares of the Corporation may be issued in uncertificated or book entry form in the manner prescribed by the Board of Directors. Without limiting the foregoing, shares of the Corporation may be issued in uncertificated or book entry form in connection with new share issuances, the transfer of shares and the replacement of shares represented by lost, destroyed or mutilated certificates as provided in Section 5.3. 
  ARTICLE VI. SEAL    
  The seal of this Corporation shall consist of the name of the Corporation and the state and year of its incorporation.  
  ARTICLE VII. INDEMNIFICATION    
    Section 7.1        Right to Indemnification  . Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved (including, without limitation, as a witness) in any actual or threatened action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, or administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or, being or having been such a director, officer, or an  
    20 

employee or agent, he or she is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director or officer or in any other capacity while serving as a director or officer of the Corporation, or of such other entity, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the full extent authorized by the WBCA or other applicable law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, against all expense, liability, and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts to be paid in settlement) actually and reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors, and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in Section 7.2 of this Article with respect to proceedings seeking to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  The right to indemnification conferred in this Section 7.1 shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that the payment of such expenses in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of (a) a written affirmation of the director's or officer's good faith belief that the person has met the standard of conduct described in RCW 23B.08.510 and (b) an undertaking, by or on behalf of such director or officer of the Corporation, or a director, officer, employee, or agent of the Corporation as to service as a director or officer with such other entities, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director, officer, employee, or agent is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section 7.1 or otherwise. 
    Section 7.2        Right of Claimant To Bring Suit  . If a claim under Section 7.1 of this Article is not paid in full by the Corporation within sixty days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, except in the case of a claim for expenses incurred  
    21 

in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition, in which case the applicable period shall be twenty days, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, to the extent successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim.  The claimant shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification under this Article upon submission of a written claim (and, in an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, where the required undertaking has been tendered to the Corporation) and thereafter the Corporation shall have the burden of proof to overcome the presumption that the claimant is not so entitled.  Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its shareholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of, or reimbursement or advancement, of expenses to the claimant is proper in the circumstances nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its shareholders) that the claimant is not entitled to indemnification or to the reimbursement or advancement of expenses shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant is not so entitled. 
    Section 7.3        Non-exclusivity of Rights  . The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Article shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Articles of Incorporation, bylaws, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors, or otherwise. 
    Section 7.4        Insurance Contracts and Funding  . The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee, or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, or other enterprise against any expense, liability, or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability, or loss under the WBCA.  The Corporation may enter into contracts with any director, officer, employee, or agent of the Corporation in furtherance of the provisions of this Article and may create a trust fund, grant a security interest, or use other means (including, without limitation, a  
    22 

letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to effect indemnification as provided in this Article. 
    Section 7.5        Indemnification of Employees and Agents of the Corporation  . The Corporation may, by action of its Board of Directors from time to time, provide indemnification and pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding to employees and agents of the Corporation with the same scope and effect as the provisions of this Article with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation or pursuant to rights granted pursuant to, or provided by, the WBCA or otherwise.  The provisions of this Section 7.5 shall not limit the rights of employees and agents of the Corporation who serve as officers or directors of other entities at the request of the Corporation pursuant to Section 7.1. 
    Section 7.6        Amendments  . No repeal, modification or amendment of, or adoption of any provision inconsistent with, this Article VII, nor, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any modification of law, shall adversely affect any right or protection of any person granted pursuant hereto, existing at, or with respect to any events that occurred prior to, the time of such repeal, amendment, adoption or modification. 
  ARTICLE VIII. BOOKS AND RECORDS    
  The Corporation shall keep correct and complete books and records of account and shall keep minutes of the proceedings of its shareholders and Board of Directors; and shall keep at its registered office or principal place of business, or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar, a record of its shareholders, giving the names and addresses of all shareholders and the number and class of the shares held by each.  Any books, records, and minutes may be in written form or any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time. 
  ARTICLE IX. NOTICE 
    Section 9.1        Definitions  . Terms used in this Article IX shall be as defined in the WBCA.  Oral notice may be communicated in person or by telephone, wire or wireless equipment that does not transmit a facsimile of the notice.  Oral notice is effective when communicated if communicated in a comprehensible manner. 
    Section 9.2        Written Notice  . Written notice may be transmitted by mail, private carrier, or personal delivery; or telephone, wire, or wireless equipment that transmits a facsimile of the notice and provides the transmitter with an electronically generated receipt.  Written notice is effective at the earliest of the following:  (a) when received; (b) five (5) days after its deposit in the U.S. mail if mailed with first-class postage, to the address as it appears on the current records of the Corporation; or (c) on the date shown on the return receipt, if sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, and the receipt is signed by or on behalf of the addressee.  Written notice to a shareholder is effective (a) when mailed, if mailed with first class postage prepaid; and (b) when dispatched, if prepaid, by air courier. 
    Section 9.3        Electronic Notice  . Notices to directors and shareholders from the Corporation and from directors and shareholders to the Corporation may be provided in an electronic transmission which contains or is accompanied by information from which it can be reasonably verified that the transmission was authorized by the director, the shareholder or by the shareholder's attorney-in-fact.  Subject to contrary provisions in the WBCA, notice to shareholders or directors in an electronic transmission shall be effective only with respect to shareholders and directors that have consented, in the form of a record, to receive electronically transmitted notices and that have designated in the consent the address, location, or system to which these notices may be electronically transmitted and with respect to a notice that otherwise complies with any other requirements of the WBCA and any applicable federal law.  A shareholder or director who has consented to receipt of electronically transmitted notices may revoke this consent by delivering a revocation to the Corporation in the form of a record.   
    23 

The consent of any shareholder or director is revoked if (a) the Corporation is unable to electronically transmit two consecutive notices given by the Corporation in accordance with the consent, and (b) this inability becomes known to the Secretary, the transfer agent, or any other person responsible for giving the notice.  The inadvertent failure by the Corporation to treat this inability as a revocation does not invalidate any meeting or other action. 
    24 

ARTICLE X. AMENDMENTS    
  These bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, and new bylaws may be adopted, by the Board of Directors or shareholders by action taken in the manner provided by the WBCA, the Articles of Incorporation and these bylaws.   

Amended  : 
  December 14, 1987; January l8, 1991; May 29, 1991; June 4, 1992; September 27, 1993; May 17, 1995; December 20, 1995; November 14, 2000; May 8, 2002; January 7, 2004; February 8, 2006, November 14, 2007, January 6, 2009 and November 13, 2012.  

25 

</EX-3.2>

<EX-12>
 3
 sbux-93012xexhibit12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

SBUX - 9.30.12 - Exhibit 12 

EXHIBIT 12  
  Starbucks Corporation  
  COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES  
  (in millions, except ratios)  

(1) Earnings represent income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes. 
  (2) Includes amortization of debt-related expenses and interest capitalized during the period. 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 4
 sbux-93012xexhibit21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF STARBUCKS CORPORATION

SBUX - 9.30.12 - Exhibit 21 

Exhibit 21 
  SUBSIDIARIES OF STARBUCKS CORPORATION  
  The list below excludes certain subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary under SEC rules as of   September 30, 2012  .  
                   Entity Name 
      
    Organized Under the Laws of: 
      Alki Limited Partnership 
      
    United Kingdom 
      AmRest Coffee Sp. z o. o. 
      
    Poland 
      AmRest Coffee s.r.o. 
      
    Czech Republic 
      AmRest Kavezo Kft. 
      
    Hungary 
      Bay Bread LLC (dba La Boulange) 
      
    Delaware 
      Beijing Starbucks Coffee Co., Ltd. 
      
    China 
      Berjaya Starbucks Coffee Company Sdn. Bhd. 
      
    Malaysia 
      Cafe Sirena S. de R.L. de C.V. 
      
    Mexico 
      Caf  Sirena S.R.L. 
      
    Argentina 
      Chengdu Starbucks Coffee Company Limited 
      
    China 
      Coffee Concepts (Southern China) Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 
      Coffee House Holdings, Inc. 
      
    Washington 
      Corporacion Starbucks Farmer Support Center Columbia 
      
    Columbia 
      Emerald City C.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Evolution Fresh, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Guangdong Starbucks Coffee Company Limited 
      
    China 
      High Grown Investment Group (Hong Kong) Ltd. 
      
    Hong Kong 
      Hubei Starbucks Coffee Company Limited 
      
    China 
      Koffee Sirena LLC 
      
    Russia 
      Marinopoulos Coffee Company Bulgaria EOOD 
      
    Bulgaria 
      Marinopoulos Coffee Company Cyprus Limited 
      
    Cyprus 
      Marinopoulos Coffee Company III S.R.L. 
      
    Romania 
      Marinopoulos Coffee Company S.A. 
      
    Greece 
      North American Coffee Partnership 
      
    New York 
      Olympic Casualty Insurance Company 
      
    Vermont 
      President Coffee (Cayman) Holdings Ltd. 
      
    Cayman Islands 
      President Starbucks Coffee (Shanghai) Company Limited 
      
    China 
      President Starbucks Coffee Corporation Taiwan Limited 
      
    Taiwan (Republic of China) 
      Qingdao American Starbucks Coffee Company Limited 
      
    China 
      Rain City C.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      SBI Nevada, Inc. 
      
    Nevada 
      SCI Europe I, Inc. 
      
    Washington 
      SCI Europe II, Inc. 
      
    Washington 
      SCI Investment, Inc. 
      
    Washington 
      SCI UK I, Inc. 
      
    Washington 
      SCI Ventures, S.L. 
      
    Spain 
      Seattle Coffee Company 
      
    Georgia 
      Seattle s Best Coffee LLC 
      
    Washington 
      Shaya Coffee Limited 
      
    Cyprus 
      SoCal Bakery LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Starbucks (China) Company Limited 
      
    China 

Starbucks (Shanghai) Supply Chain Co., Ltd. 
      
    China 
      Starbucks Asia Pacific Investment Holding II Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 
      Starbucks Asia Pacific Investment Holding III Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 
      Starbucks Asia Pacific Investment Holding Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 
      Starbucks Brasil Com rcio de Caf s Ltda. 
      
    Brazil 
      Starbucks CPG International, G.K. 
      
    Japan 
      Starbucks Capital Asset Leasing Company, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Starbucks Card Europe Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Starbucks Coffee (Dalian) Company Limited 
      
    China 
      Starbucks Coffee (Liaoning) Company Limited 
      
    China 
      Starbucks Coffee (Shenzhen) Ltd. 
      
    China 
      Starbucks Coffee (Thailand) Ltd. 
      
    Thailand 
      Starbucks Coffee Agronomy Company S.R.L. 
      
    Costa Rica 
      Starbucks Coffee Argentina S.R.L. 
      
    Argentina 
      Starbucks Coffee Asia Pacific Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 
      Starbucks Coffee Austria GmbH 
      
    Austria 
      Starbucks Coffee Canada, Inc. 
      
    Canada 
      Starbucks Coffee Chile S.A. 
      
    Chile 
      Starbucks Coffee Company (Australia) Pty Ltd 
      
    Australia 
      Starbucks Coffee Company (UK) Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Starbucks Coffee Deutschland GmbH 
      
    Germany 
      Starbucks Coffee Development (Yunan) Company Limited 
      
    China 
      Starbucks Coffee EMEA B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Starbucks Coffee France S.A.S. 
      
    France 
      Starbucks Coffee Holdings (UK) Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Starbucks Coffee International, Inc. 
      
    Washington 
      Starbucks Coffee Japan, Ltd. 
      
    Japan 
      Starbucks Coffee Korea Co., Ltd. 
      
    South Korea 
      Starbucks Coffee Netherlands B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Starbucks Coffee Puerto Rico, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Starbucks Coffee Singapore Pte Ltd 
      
    Singapore 
      Starbucks Coffee Switzerland A.G. 
      
    Switzerland 
      Starbucks Coffee Trading Company Sarl 
      
    Switzerland 
      Starbucks Farmer Support Center Ethiopia Plc. 
      
    Ethiopia 
      Starbucks Farmer Support Center Rwanda Ltd. 
      
    Rwanda 
      Starbucks Farmer Support Center Tanzania Ltd. 
      
    Tanzania 
      Starbucks Holding Company 
      
    Washington 
      Starbucks Manufacturing Corporation 
      
    Washington 
      Starbucks Manufacturing EMEA B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Starbucks New Venture Company 
      
    Washington 
      Starbucks Singapore Investment Pte. 
      
    Singapore 
      Starbucks Switzerland Austria Holdings B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Starbucks-Marinopoulos SEE B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Tata Starbucks Limited 
      
    India 
      The New French Bakery, Inc. 
      
    California 
      Torrefazione Italia LLC 
      
    Washington 

Torz and Macatonia Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Xi an Starbucks Coffee Company Limited 
      
    China 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 sbux-93012xexhibit23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

SBUX - 9.30.12 - Exhibit 23 

EXHIBIT 23  
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 33-52526, 33-52528, 33-92208, 33-92184, 333-65181, 333-94987, 333-37442, 333-70648, 333-101806, 333-114090, 333-123688, 333-142878, 333-167572 and 333-174995 on Form S-8, and Registration Statement Nos. 333-167568 and 333-145572 on Form S-3 of our reports dated   November 16, 2012  , relating to the consolidated financial statements of Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company"), and the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Starbucks Corporation for the year ended   September 30, 2012  .  
    
  /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP  
  Seattle, Washington  
  November 16, 2012    

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 sbux-93012xexhibit311.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION

SBUX - 9.30.12 - Exhibit 31.1 

Exhibit 31.1 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
    
  I, Howard Schultz, certify that:  
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   September 30, 2012   of Starbucks Corporation; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
  November 16, 2012    

/s/ Howard Schultz 
        
    Howard Schultz 
        
    chairman, president and chief executive officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 sbux-93012xexhibit312.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION

SBUX - 9.30.12 - Exhibit 31.2 

Exhibit 31.2 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
    
  I, Troy Alstead, certify that:  
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   September 30, 2012   of Starbucks Corporation; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
  November 16, 2012    

/s/ Troy Alstead 
        
    Troy Alstead 
        
    chief financial officer and chief administrative officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 8
 sbux-93012xexhibit32.htm
 SECTION 906 CEO AND CFO CERTIFICATION

SBUX - 9.30.12 - Exhibit 32 

Exhibit 32 
  CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Starbucks Corporation ( Starbucks ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   September 30, 2012  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commi  ssion on   November 16, 2012   (  the  Report ), Howard Schultz, chairman, president and chief executive officer, and Troy Alstead, chief financial officer and chief administrative officer of Starbucks, each hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to his knowledge: 
    
           (1) 
    the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
              (2) 
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Starbucks. 
       
  November 16, 2012    

/s/ Howard Schultz 
        
    Howard Schultz 
        
    chairman, president and chief executive officer 

November 16, 2012    

/s/ Troy Alstead 
        
    Troy Alstead 
        
    chief financial officer and chief administrative officer 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 sbux-20120930.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 sbux-20120930.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 sbux-20120930_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 sbux-20120930_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 sbux-20120930_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 sbux-20120930_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

