<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080215_10-K_edgar_data_77476_0001193125-08-032441_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2175308</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>306900</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>389349</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1205010</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>93</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-08-032441.hdr.sgml : 20080215
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080215152759
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-08-032441
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071229
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080215
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080215

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PEPSICO INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000077476
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BEVERAGES [2080]
		IRS NUMBER:				131584302
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NC
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1229

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-01183
		FILM NUMBER:		08622533

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		700 ANDERSON HILL RD
		CITY:			PURCHASE
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10577
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9142532000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		700 ANDERSON HILL ROAD
		CITY:			PURCHASE
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10577-1444

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PEPSI COLA CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19700903

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WB0qJ8ApG43B0C9PcFbkHpdQbzXpimx7a+0YYV7zkALx/uWC2sqWGg8nQTNFAsGe
 axlCt4H1lhi3hyrSE75+5A==

 0001193125-08-032441.txt : 20080215

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

        UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549                  FORM 10-K       (Mark One)       

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934        For the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007  
      OR        

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934        For the transition period from                        to
                              Commission file number 1-1183                

       PepsiCo, Inc.        (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)        

North Carolina   
     
   13-1584302    
 
     (State or Other Jurisdiction of       Incorporation or Organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     

700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York   
     
   10577    
 
   (Address of Principal Executive Offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)    
               Registrant s telephone
number, including area code 914-253-2000        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934:        

Title of Each Class    
     
     Name of Each Exchange       on Which Registered     
 
  Common Stock, par value 1-2/3 cents per share  
     
  New York and Chicago Stock Exchanges   
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: None
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes      No          Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes      No          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes      No       

Table of Contents  

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
one):      Large Accelerated filer                                     Accelerated filer
         Non-Accelerated filer                                       Smaller
reporting company          (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). Yes      No          The aggregate market value of PepsiCo
Common Stock held by nonaffiliates of PepsiCo (assuming for these purposes, but without conceding, that all executive officers and directors of PepsiCo are affiliates of PepsiCo) as of June 15, 2007, the last day of business of our most
recently completed second fiscal quarter, was $108,142,554,519 (based on the closing sale price of PepsiCo s Common Stock on that date as reported on the New York Stock Exchange). The number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock outstanding as of
February 8, 2008 was   1,601,789,456.       

Documents of Which Portions       Are Incorporated by Reference    

Parts of Form 10-K into Which Portion of       Documents Are Incorporated     
 
     Proxy Statement for PepsiCo s May 7, 2008       Annual Meeting of Shareholders    

III    

Table of Contents  

    PepsiCo, Inc.        Form 10-K Annual Report        For the Fiscal Year Ended December 29, 2007        
  Table of Contents        

PART I     

Item 1.   

Business    
      
  1   
 
    Item 1A.   

Risk Factors    
      
  8   
 
    Item 1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  13   
 
    Item 2.   

Properties    
      
  13   
 
    Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings    
      
  15   
 
    Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  15   

PART II     

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
      
  19   
 
    Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data    
      
  21   
 
    Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  21   
 
    Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  105   
 
    Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  105   
 
    Item 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  105   
 
    Item 9A.   

Controls and Procedures    
      
  105   
 
    Item 9B.   

Other Information    
      
  106   

PART III     

Item 10.   

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  107   
 
    Item 11.   

Executive Compensation    
      
  107   
 
    Item 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters     
      
  108   
 
    Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  108   
 
    Item 14.   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  109   

PART IV     

Item 15.   

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  109   
       
   i   

Table of Contents  

PART I        
  Item 1.        Business       PepsiCo, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware
in 1919 and was reincorporated in North Carolina in 1986. When used in this report, the terms  we,   us,   our,   PepsiCo  and the  Company  mean PepsiCo, Inc. and its divisions and subsidiaries.
      Our Divisions       We are
a leading global snack and beverage company. We manufacture, market and sell a variety of salty, convenient, sweet and grain-based snacks, carbonated and non-carbonated beverages and foods.      Our commitment to sustainable growth, defined as Performance with Purpose, is focused on generating healthy financial returns while giving back to the communities we serve. This includes
meeting consumer needs for a spectrum of convenient foods and beverages, reducing our impact on the environment through water, energy and packaging initiatives, and supporting our employees through a diverse and inclusive culture that recruits and
retains world-class talent. In September 2007, we were again included on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index and were also added to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. These lists are compiled annually.      We are organized into four divisions:       

Frito-Lay North America,      

PepsiCo Beverages North America,      

PepsiCo International, and      

Quaker Foods North America.         Our
North American divisions operate in the United States and Canada. Our international division sells products in approximately 200 countries, with our largest operations in Mexico and the United Kingdom. Financial information concerning our divisions
and geographic areas is presented in
 Note 1  to our consolidated financial statements and additional information concerning our division operations, customers and distribution network is presented under the heading  
 Our Business   contained in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis.         Frito-Lay
North America        Frito-Lay North America (FLNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets, sells and distributes branded
snacks. These snacks include Lay s potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips, Tostitos tortilla chips, Cheetos cheese flavored snacks, branded dips, Fritos corn chips, Ruffles potato chips, Quaker Chewy granola bars, SunChips multigrain snacks, Rold
Gold pretzels, Santitas tortilla chips, Grandma s cookies, Frito-Lay nuts, Munchies snack mix, Gamesa cookies, Funyuns onion flavored rings, Quaker Quakes corn and rice snacks, Miss Vickie s potato chips, Stacy s pita chips,
Smartfood popcorn, Chester s  
       
   1   

Table of Contents  

fries, branded crackers and Flat Earth crisps. FLNA branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. FLNA s net revenue was $11.6
billion in 2007, $10.8 billion in 2006 and $10.3 billion in 2005 and approximated 29% of our total net revenue in 2007, 31% of our total net revenue in 2006 and 32% of our total net revenue in 2005.        PepsiCo Beverages North America        PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mountain Dew, Gatorade,
Tropicana Pure Premium, Sierra Mist, Propel, Tropicana juice drinks, Dole, SoBe Life Water, Naked juice and Izze. PBNA also manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea, coffee and water products through joint
ventures with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks. In addition, PBNA licenses the Aquafina water brand to its bottlers and markets this brand. PBNA sells concentrate and finished goods for some of these brands to authorized
bottlers, and some of these branded products are sold directly by us to independent distributors and retailers. The bottlers sell our brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers. PBNA s net revenue was $10.2 billion in
2007, $9.6 billion in 2006 and $9.1 billion in 2005 and approximated 26% of our total net revenue in 2007, 27% of our total net revenue in 2006 and 28% of our total net revenue in 2005.        PepsiCo International        PepsiCo International (PI) manufactures through
consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates, a number of leading salty and sweet snack brands including Gamesa, Lay s, Doritos, Walkers, Cheetos, Ruffles and Sabritas. Further, PI manufactures or uses contract
manufacturers, markets and sells many Quaker brand cereals and snacks. PI also manufactures, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under the brands Pepsi, 7UP, Mirinda, Mountain Dew, Gatorade and Tropicana.
These brands are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. However, in certain markets, PI operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. PI also manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and
sells ready-to-drink tea products through a joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). In addition, PI licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers. PI s net revenue was $15.8 billion in 2007, $13.0
billion in 2006 and $11.4 billion in 2005 and approximated 40% of our total net revenue in 2007, 37% of our total net revenue in 2006 and 35% of our total net revenue in 2005.        Quaker Foods North America        Quaker Foods North America (QFNA)
manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNA s products include Quaker oatmeal, Aunt Jemima mixes and syrups, Life cereal, Cap n Crunch cereal, Quaker grits,
Rice-A-Roni, Pasta Roni and Near East side dishes. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. QFNA s net revenue was $1.9 billion in 2007, $1.8 billion in 2006 and $1.7 billion in 2005 and approximated 5% of our
total net revenue in each of 2007, 2006 and 2005.         
   2   

Table of Contents  

     New Organizational Structure        In the fourth quarter of 2007, we announced a strategic realignment of our organizational structure into three new business units, as follows:       

(1)   
    PepsiCo Americas Foods (PAF), which includes FLNA, QFNA and all of our Latin American food and snack businesses (LAF), including our Sabritas and Gamesa
businesses in Mexico;          

(2)   
    PepsiCo Americas Beverages (PAB), which includes PBNA and all of our Latin American beverage businesses; and          

(3)   
    PepsiCo International (PI), which includes all PepsiCo businesses in the United Kingdom, Europe, Asia, Middle East and Africa.         In 2008, our three business units will be comprised of six reportable segments, as follows:       

FLNA,      

QFNA,      

LAF,      

PAB,      

United Kingdom   Europe, and      

Middle East, Africa   Asia.         In the first quarter of 2008, our historical segment reporting will be restated to reflect the new structure. The segment amounts and discussions reflected in this Form 10-K reflect the management reporting that existed through fiscal
year-end 2007.       Our Distribution Network       Our products are brought to market through direct-store-delivery (DSD), broker-warehouse and foodservice and vending distribution networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product
characteristics and local trade practices. These distribution systems are described under the heading  Our Distribution Network  contained in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis.        Ingredients and Other Supplies       The
principal ingredients we use in our food and beverage businesses are aspartame, cocoa, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruits and other fruits, juice and juice concentrates, oats, oranges, potatoes, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar,
vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. Our key packaging materials include polyethylene terephthalate (PET) resin used for plastic bottles, film packaging used for snack foods,  
       
   3   

Table of Contents  

aluminum used for cans, glass bottles and cardboard. Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and in the trucks
delivering our products. These ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased mainly in the open market. We employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous
shortages. The prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation. When prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. When we have decided to pass along price increases in the past, we have done so successfully.
However, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our commodity costs.       Our Brands       We own numerous valuable
trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including Alegro, Amp, Aquafina, Aunt Jemima, Cap n Crunch, Cheetos, Cracker Jack, Diet Pepsi, Doritos, Duyvis, Frito-Lay, Fritos, Gamesa, Gatorade, Grandma s, Izze, Lay s,
Life, Matutano, Mirinda, Mountain Dew, Mug, Naked, Near East, Pasta Roni, Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Pepsi One, Propel, Quaker, Quaker Chewy, Quakes, Rice-A-Roni, Rold Gold, Ruffles, Sabritas, Sakata, 7UP and Diet 7UP (outside the United States), Sierra
Mist, Simba, Smith s, Snack a Jacks, SoBe, SoBe Life Water, Sonric s, Stacy s, SunChips, Tostitos, Tropicana, Tropicana Pure Premium, Tropicana Twister and Walkers. We also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in
connection with our products, including Lipton, Starbucks, Dole and Ocean Spray. Trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. We have authorized, through
licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. In addition, we license the use of our trademarks on promotional items for the primary purpose of enhancing
brand awareness.      We either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to some of our products, their packaging, the
processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. Some of these patents are licensed to others.       Seasonality       Our beverage and food divisions are subject to seasonal variations. Our beverage sales
are higher during the warmer months and certain food sales are higher in the cooler months. Weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first
quarter. However, taken as a whole, seasonality does not have a material impact on our business.       Our Customers       Our customers include authorized bottlers and independent distributors, including foodservice distributors and retailers. We normally grant our bottlers
exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements provide the Company with the right to charge our bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and Aquafina
royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

   Retail consolidation continues to increase the importance of major customers. In 2007, sales to Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. (Wal-Mart), including Sam s Club (Sam s), represented approximately 12% of our total net revenue. Our top five retail customers represented approximately 31% of our 2007 North American net revenue, with Wal-Mart (including
Sam s) representing approximately 18%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. In addition, sales to The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG) represented approximately
9% of our total net revenue. See  
 Our Customers   and  Our Related Party Bottlers  contained in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis  and
 Note 8  to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our anchor bottlers.       Our Competition       Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against global, regional, local and
private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. In U.S. measured channels, we have a similar share of CSD (carbonated soft drinks) consumption and a larger share of liquid refreshment beverages
consumption, as compared to our chief beverage competitor, The Coca-Cola Company. However, The Coca-Cola Company has a significant CSD share advantage in many markets outside the United States. Further, our snack brands hold significant leadership
positions in the snack industry worldwide. Our snack brands face local and regional competitors, as well as national and global snack competitors, and compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. Success in this
competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products and the introduction of new products. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of
our distribution network, allow us to compete effectively.         
   5   

Table of Contents  

(1)   
    The categories and category share information in the charts above are defined by the sources of the information: Information Resources, Inc. and A.C. Nielsen
Corporation. The above charts exclude data from certain customers such as Wal-Mart that do not report data to these services.          

(2)   
    Due to unavailability of data from A.C. Nielsen Corporation, the following categories are not included for the Convenience and Gas (C G) channel: dips,
popcorn and rice cakes.          Research and Development       We engage in a variety of research and development activities. These activities principally involve the development of new products, improvement in the quality of existing products, improvement
and modernization of production processes, and the development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines. Consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and
included in other marketing costs. Research and development costs were $364 million in 2007, $282 million in 2006 and $280 million in 2005 and are reported as selling, general and administrative expenses.       Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance       The conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by
federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government         
   6   

Table of Contents  

entities and agencies in markets where we operate. It is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses.
     In the United States, we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Occupational Safety and
Health Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, customs and foreign trade laws and regulations, laws regulating the
sales of products in schools, and various other federal statutes and regulations. We are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including California Proposition 65 which requires that a specific warning appear on any
product that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. Many food and beverage producers who sell products in California, including PepsiCo, may be required to provide warning labels
on their products. See also  Risk Factors   Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.       In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. We rely on
legal and operational compliance programs, as well as local in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business.      The cost of compliance with U.S. and foreign laws does not have a material financial impact on our operations.      We are subject to national and local environmental laws in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business, including laws
relating to water consumption and treatment. We are committed to meeting all applicable environmental compliance requirements. Environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures,
earnings or competitive position.       Employees       As of December 29, 2007, we employed approximately 185,000 people worldwide, including approximately 66,000 people employed within the United States. Our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. We
believe that relations with our employees are generally good.       Available Information       We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file with the SEC at  http://www.sec.gov .         
   7   

Table of Contents  

   Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy
statements and amendments to those reports, are also available free of charge on our internet website at http:// www.pepsico.com  as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The
information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any of our other filings with the SEC.       
  Item 1A.
  Risk Factor
  s         Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements         We discuss expectations regarding our future performance, such as our business outlook, in our annual and quarterly reports, press releases, and other
written and oral statements. These  forward-looking statements  are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. They inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those predicted in any such forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake
no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we
believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our trends and future results.         Demand for our products may be
adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively.        We are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. To generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. Any significant
changes in consumer preferences and any inability on our part to anticipate and react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. Our success depends on our ability to
respond to consumer trends, such as consumer health concerns about obesity, product attributes and ingredients. In addition, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Consumer
preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population, changes in social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, weather, negative publicity resulting from regulatory action or
litigation against companies in the industry, or a downturn in economic conditions. Any of these changes may reduce consumers  willingness to purchase our products. See also  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our
business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation  below.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

   Our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust
pipeline of new products, and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and marketing programs. There can be no assurance as to our continued ability either to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products, or to
effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. Our failure to
successfully launch new products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs.        Any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.        Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. If we fail to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and
integrity, our reputation could be jeopardized. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns or the incidence of product contamination or tampering, whether or not valid, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery
disruptions. If any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, misbranded or causes injury, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability. A widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment could
cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. Failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities or adverse
publicity regarding our responses to health concerns, our environmental impacts, including agricultural materials, packaging, energy and water use and waste management, or other sustainability issues, could jeopardize our reputation. Failure to
comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in
our products for any of these reasons could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.        If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation
initiative or outsource certain functions effectively our business could suffer.        We depend on information technology as an enabler
to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper
technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach.      We have embarked on a multi-year business transformation initiative that includes the delivery of an SAP enterprise resource planning application, as
well as the migration to  
       
   9   

Table of Contents  

common business processes across our operations. There can be no certainty that these programs will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to deliver our
goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the
application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue.      In addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in
the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct
errors made by such service providers. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee
morale.      Our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or
disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets.        Our
operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies.        We and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business, including aspartame, cocoa, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruits and other fruits, juice and juice concentrates, oats, oranges,
potatoes, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. Our key packaging materials include PET resin used for plastic bottles, film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles and cardboard.
Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and in the trucks delivering our products. Some of these raw materials and supplies are available from a limited number of suppliers. We are exposed to the market
risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy. The raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and
fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls. We purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. If commodity price changes result in
unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating income.      Our profitability may also be adversely impacted due to water scarcity and regulation. Water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. As demand
for water continues to increase, we and our business partners may face disruption of supply or increased costs to obtain the water needed to produce our products.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

     Our business could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.        Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against global, regional and private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality,
product variety and effective distribution. Increased competition and actions by our competitors could lead to downward pressure on prices and/or a decline in our market share, either of which could adversely affect our results. See  Our
Competition  for more information about our competitors.        Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.        Our ability and that of our suppliers, business partners, including
bottlers, contract manufacturers, independent distributors and retailers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster,
fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics such as avian flu, strikes or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to
effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.        Trade consolidation, the loss of any key customer, or failure to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners could adversely affect our
financial performance.        We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including our retailers and
bottling partners, to effectively compete. There is a greater concentration of our customer base around the world generally due to the continued consolidation of retail trade. As retail ownership becomes more concentrated, retailers demand lower
pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, as larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be
eroded. Failure to appropriately respond to these trends or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial
performance.      Retail consolidation continues to increase the importance of major customers. In 2007, sales to Wal-Mart (including
Sam s) represented approximately 12% of our total net revenue. Our top five retail customers represented approximately 31% of our 2007 North American net revenue, with Wal-Mart (including Sam s) representing approximately 18%. These
percentages include concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers .  Loss of any of our key customers, including Wal-Mart, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operations.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

   Furthermore, if we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our bottlers through a
combination of advertising and marketing support, they may take actions that, while maximizing their own short-term profit, may be detrimental to us or our brands. Such actions could have an adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, any
deterioration of our relationships with our bottlers could adversely affect our business or financial performance. See  
 Our Customers   and  
 Our Related Party Bottlers   contained in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis  and
 Note 8  to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our anchor bottlers.        Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.        The conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations
administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. These laws and regulations may change,
sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. Such regulatory environment changes include changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and deceptive marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation
requirements, competition laws and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we
do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities.      In particular, governmental bodies in
jurisdictions where we operate may impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. For example, we are one of several companies that have been sued by the State of California under Proposition 65 to force warnings
that certain potato-based products contain acrylamide. Acrylamide is a chemical compound naturally formed in a wide variety of foods when they are cooked (whether commercially or at home), including french fries, potato chips, cereal, bread and
coffee. It is believed that acrylamide may cause cancer in laboratory animals when consumed in significant amounts. Studies are underway by various regulatory authorities and others to assess the effect on humans due to acrylamide in the diet. If we
were required to label any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold in California under Proposition 65, sales of those products could suffer not only in California but elsewhere. In addition, if consumer concerns
about acrylamide increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, or for any other reason, whether or not valid, demand for our products could decline and we could be subject to additional lawsuits or new regulations that could
affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.      In
many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. Regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to
actions such as  
       
   12   

Table of Contents  

product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. See also  Regulatory
Environment and Environmental Compliance.         If we are unable to hire or retain key employees, it could have a negative impact on
our business.        Our continued growth requires us to develop our leadership bench and to implement programs, such as our long-term
incentive program, designed to retain talent. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to be able to hire or retain key employees. We compete to hire new employees, and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Our
operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Any unplanned turnover could deplete our institutional knowledge base and
erode our competitive advantage.        Our business may be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic or environmental conditions or
political or other developments and risks in the countries in which we operate.        Unfavorable global economic or environmental
changes, political conditions or other developments may result in business disruption, supply constraints, foreign currency devaluation, inflation, deflation or decreased demand. Unstable economic and political conditions or civil unrest in the
countries in which we operate could have adverse impacts on our business results or financial condition. Our operations outside of the United States accounted for 44% and 35% of our net revenue and operating profit, respectively, for the year ended
December 29, 2007. Our continued success depends on our ability to broaden and strengthen our presence in emerging markets, such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, and to create scale in key international markets.       
  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments       PepsiCo has received no written comments regarding its periodic or
current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved.       
  Item 2. Properties       Our most significant corporate properties include our corporate headquarters building
in Purchase, New York and our data center in Plano, Texas, both of which are owned. Leases of plants in North America generally are on a long-term basis, expiring at various times, with options to renew for additional periods. Most international
plants are owned or leased on a long-term basis. We believe that our properties are in good operating condition and are suitable for the purposes for which they are being used.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

     Frito-Lay North America        FLNA s most significant properties include its headquarters building and a research facility in Plano, Texas, both of which are owned. FLNA also owns or leases approximately 40 food
manufacturing and processing plants and approximately 1,920 warehouses, distribution centers and offices. In addition, FLNA also utilizes approximately 40 plants and production processing facilities that are owned or leased by our contract
manufacturers or co-packers.        PepsiCo Beverages North America        PBNA s most significant properties include its headquarters building in downtown Chicago, Illinois, which is leased, and its Tropicana facility in Bradenton, Florida, its concentrate plant
in Ireland and its research and development facility in Valhalla, New York, all of which are owned. PBNA also owns or leases approximately 15 plants and production processing facilities and approximately 40 warehouses, distribution centers and
offices. In addition, authorized bottlers in which we have an ownership interest own or lease approximately 65 bottling plants. PBNA also utilizes approximately 55 plants and production processing facilities and approximately 45 warehouses and
distribution centers that are owned or leased by our contract manufacturers or co-packers.        PepsiCo International     
  PI s most significant property, a concentrate plant in Ireland, is owned. PI also owns or leases approximately 170 plants and approximately 1,700
warehouses, distribution centers and offices. In addition, authorized bottlers in which we have an ownership interest own or lease approximately 50 plants and 400 distribution centers. PI also utilizes approximately 5 plants and production
processing facilities and approximately 30 distribution centers that are owned or leased by our contract manufacturers or co-packers. PI is headquartered in the corporate facility in Purchase, New York.        Quaker Foods North America        QFNA owns a plant in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, which is its most significant property. QFNA also owns or leases three plants and production processing facilities in North America. In addition, QFNA utilizes approximately 25 manufacturing plants,
production processing facilities and distribution centers that are owned or leased by our contract manufacturers or co-packers. QFNA is headquartered in the same facility with PBNA in downtown Chicago, Illinois.        Shared Properties        QFNA shares
approximately 10 production facilities and approximately 5 warehouses and distribution centers with FLNA, 15 warehouses and distribution centers with both FLNA and PBNA, and 10 offices with PBNA and FLNA, including a research and development
laboratory in Barrington, Illinois.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

Item 3. Legal Proceedings       We are party to a variety of legal proceedings arising in the normal course of
business. While the results of proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes that the final outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, results of operations or
cash flows.       
  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders       Not applicable.       Executive Officers of the Registrant       The following is a list of names, ages and background of our current executive officers:        Peter A. Bridgman  , 55, has
been our Senior Vice President and Controller since August 2000. Mr. Bridgman began his career with PepsiCo at Pepsi-Cola International in 1985 and became Chief Financial Officer for Central Europe in 1990. He became Senior Vice President and
Controller for Pepsi-Cola North America in 1992 and Senior Vice President and Controller for The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. in 1999.        Albert P. Carey,   56, was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of Frito-Lay North America in June 2006. Mr. Carey began his career with Frito-Lay in 1981 where he spent 20 years in a variety of roles. He served
as President, PepsiCo Sales from February 2003 until June 2006. Prior to that, he served as Chief Operating Officer, PepsiCo Beverages   Foods North America from June 2002 to February 2003 and as PepsiCo s Senior Vice President, Sales
and Retailer Strategies from August 1998 to June 2002.        John C. Compton,   46, has been Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo
Americas Foods since November 2007. Mr. Compton began his career at PepsiCo in 1983 as a Frito-Lay Production Supervisor in the Pulaski, Tennessee manufacturing plant. He has spent 24 years at PepsiCo in various Sales, Marketing, Operations and
General Management assignments. From March 2005 until September 2006, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Quaker, Tropicana, Gatorade, and from September 2006 until November 2007, he was Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo North America.
Mr. Compton served as Vice Chairman and President of the North American Salty Snacks Division of Frito-Lay from March 2003 until March 2005. Prior to that, he served as Chief Marketing Officer of Frito-Lay s North American Salty Snacks
Division from August 2001 until March 2003.        Massimo Fasanella d Amore,   52, has been Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo
Americas Beverages since November 2007. Mr. d Amore was formerly Executive Vice President, Commercial for PepsiCo International, a position he assumed in November 2005. Prior to that, he served as President, Latin America Region for
PepsiCo Beverages International from February 2002 until November 2005 and as the Company s Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Development from August 2000 until February  
       
   15   

Table of Contents  

2002. Mr. d Amore began his career with the Company in 1995 as Vice President, Marketing for Pepsi-Cola International and was promoted to Senior
Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Pepsi-Cola International in 1998. Before joining the Company, he was with Procter   Gamble for 15 years in various international operations, marketing and general management positions.
       Richard Goodman   ,  59, has been PepsiCo s Chief Financial Officer since October 2006. From 2003 until October
2006, Mr. Goodman was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of PepsiCo International. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of PepsiCo Beverages International from 2001 to 2003 and as Vice
President and General Auditor of PepsiCo from 2000 to 2001. Mr. Goodman joined PepsiCo in 1992 as Vice President of Corporate Strategic Planning, International and held a number of senior financial positions with PepsiCo and its affiliates
until 1997 when he left PepsiCo to pursue other opportunities. Before joining PepsiCo in 1992, Mr. Goodman was with W.R. Grace   Co. in a variety of global chief financial officer positions.        Hugh F. Johnston  , 46, has been President of Pepsi-Cola North America since November 2007. He was formerly PepsiCo s Executive Vice
President, Operations, a position he held from October 2006 until November 2007. From April 2005 until October 2006, Mr. Johnston was PepsiCo s Senior Vice President, Transformation. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and Foods from November 2002 through March 2005, and as PepsiCo s Senior Vice President of Mergers and Acquisitions from March 2002 until November 2002. Mr. Johnston joined PepsiCo in 1987 as a
Business Planner and held various finance positions until 1999 when he left to join Merck   Co., Inc. as Vice President, Retail, a position which he held until he rejoined PepsiCo in 2002. Prior to joining PepsiCo in 1987, Mr. Johnston
was with General Electric Company in a variety of finance positions.        Charles I. Maniscalco  , 54, has been President of
PepsiCo Chicago since November 2007. Mr. Maniscalco was President and Chief Executive Officer of Quaker, Tropicana, Gatorade from September 2006 until November 2007. From 2002 until September 2006, he was President   Gatorade/Propel, and
from August 2001 until 2002 he was Senior Vice President and General Manager, Convenience Foods for Frito-Lay North America. Mr. Maniscalco started his career at Quaker Oats in 1980 as a market research analyst. Over the years, he held a wide
variety of roles at Quaker Oats, including marketing and general management positions encompassing Quaker s food, beverages and pet food divisions.        Indra K. Nooyi  , 52, has been PepsiCo s Chief Executive Officer since October 2006 and assumed the role of Chairman of PepsiCo s Board of Directors on May 2, 2007. She was elected to
PepsiCo s Board of Directors and became President and Chief Financial Officer in May 2001, after serving as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 2000. Ms. Nooyi also served as PepsiCo s Senior Vice
President, Corporate Strategy and Development from 1996 until February 2000 and as PepsiCo s Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning from 1994 until 1996. Prior to joining  
       
   16   

Table of Contents  

PepsiCo, Ms. Nooyi spent four years as Senior Vice President of Strategy, Planning and Strategic Marketing for Asea Brown Boveri, Inc. She was also Vice
President and Director of Corporate Strategy and Planning at Motorola, Inc.        Lionel L. Nowell III  , 53, has been Senior Vice
President and Treasurer since August 2001. Mr. Nowell joined PepsiCo as Senior Vice President and Controller in 1999 and then became Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. Prior to joining PepsiCo,
he was Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development for RJR Nabisco, Inc. From 1991 to 1998, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Pillsbury North America, and its Pillsbury Foodservice and Haagen Dazs units, serving as Vice President
and Controller of the Pillsbury Company, Vice President of Food and International Retailing Audit, and Director of Internal Audit.        Larry D. Thompson  , 62, became PepsiCo s Senior Vice President, Government Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary in November 2004. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Mr. Thompson served as a Senior Fellow with the Brookings
Institution in Washington, D.C. and served as Deputy Attorney General in the U.S. Department of Justice. In 2002, he was named to lead the National Security Coordination Council and was also named by President Bush to head the Corporate Fraud Task
Force. In April 2000, Mr. Thompson was selected by Congress to chair the bipartisan Judicial Review Commission on Foreign Asset Control. Prior to his government career, he was a partner in the law firm of King   Spalding, a position he
held from 1986 to 2001.        Cynthia M. Trudell  , 54, is Senior Vice President, Chief Personnel Officer, a position she assumed in
February 2007. Ms. Trudell served as a director of PepsiCo from January 2000 until her appointment to her current position. She was formerly Vice President of Brunswick Corporation and President of Sea Ray Group from 2001 until 2006. From 1999
until 2001, Ms. Trudell served as General Motors  Vice President, and Chairman and President of Saturn Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of GM. Ms. Trudell began her career with the Ford Motor Co. as a chemical process engineer.
In 1981, she joined GM and held various engineering and manufacturing supervisory positions. In 1995, she became plant manager at GM s Wilmington Assembly Center in Delaware. In 1996, she became President of IBC Vehicles in Luton, England, a
joint venture between General Motors and Isuzu.        Michael D. White  , 56, has been Vice Chairman of PepsiCo and a member of
PepsiCo s Board of Directors since March 2006 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo International since February 2003. Prior to that, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Frito-Lay s Europe/Africa/Middle East
division from 2000 until February 2003. From 1998 to 2000, Mr. White was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of PepsiCo. Mr. White has also served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of PepsiCo Foods
International and Chief Financial Officer of Frito-Lay North America. He joined Frito-Lay in 1990 as Vice President of Planning. Mr. White is also a director of Whirlpool Corporation.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

   Executive officers are elected by our Board of Directors, and their terms of office continue until the
next annual meeting of the Board or until their successors are elected and have qualified. There are no family relationships among our executive officers.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

    PART II        
  Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       Stock Trading Symbol   PEP      Stock Exchange Listings   The New York Stock Exchange is the
principal market for our common stock, which is also listed on the Chicago and Swiss Stock Exchanges.      Stock Prices   The composite
quarterly high, low and closing prices for PepsiCo common stock for each fiscal quarter of 2007 and 2006 are contained in our Selected Financial Data.      Shareholders   At February 8, 2008, there were approximately 185,000 shareholders of record of our common stock.      Dividends   We target an annual dividend payout of 50% of prior year s earnings, excluding certain items. Dividends are usually declared in late January or early February, May, July and November and paid at
the end of March, June and September and the beginning of January. The dividend record dates for these payments are, subject to approval of the Board of Directors, expected to be March 7, June 6, September 5 and
December 5, 2008. We have paid consecutive quarterly cash dividends since 1965. Information with respect to the quarterly dividends declared in 2007 and 2006 is contained in our Selected Financial Data.      For information on securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see  Item 12   Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.       A summary of our common stock repurchases (in millions, except
average price per share) during the fourth quarter under the $8.5 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors and publicly announced on May 3, 2006, and expiring on June 30, 2009, is set forth in the table below. All
such shares of common stock were repurchased pursuant to open market transactions.      On May 2, 2007 we also publicly announced that our
Board of Directors authorized stock purchases of up to an additional $8 billion through June 30, 2010, once the current share repurchase authorization is complete.       
  
   19   

Table of Contents  

    Issuer Purchases of Common Stock        
      PepsiCo also repurchases shares of its convertible preferred stock from an employee stock
ownership plan (ESOP) fund established by Quaker in connection with share redemptions by ESOP participants. The following table summarizes our convertible preferred share repurchases during the fourth quarter.         Issuer Purchases of Convertible Preferred Stock        
       
   20   

Table of Contents  

Item 6. Selected Financial Data       Selected Financial Data is included on page 101.       
  Item 7.
  Management s Discussion and Analysis        

OUR BUSINESS     

Our Operations    
      
  23   
 
     A Perspective from our Chairman and CEO    
      
  25   
 
     Our Customers    
      
  29   
 
     Our Distribution Network    
      
  30   
 
     Our Competition    
      
  31   
 
     Other Relationships    
      
  31   
 
     Our Business Risks    
      
  31   
 
      OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES     

Revenue Recognition    
      
  35   
 
     Brand and Goodwill Valuations    
      
  36   
 
     Income Tax Expense and Accruals    
      
  37   
 
     Pension and Retiree Medical Plans    
      
  38   
 
      OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS     

Items Affecting Comparability    
      
  43   
 
     Results of Operations   Consolidated Review    
      
  44   
 
     Results of Operations   Division Review    
      
  48   
 
     Frito-Lay North America    
      
  49   
 
     PepsiCo Beverages North America    
      
  50   
 
     PepsiCo International    
      
  52   
 
     Quaker Foods North America    
      
  53   
 
     Our Liquidity and Capital Resources    
      
  54   
       
   21   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Income     
      
  58   
 
      Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows     
      
  59   
 
      Consolidated Balance Sheet     
      
  61   
 
      Consolidated Statement of Common Shareholders  Equity     
      
  62   
 
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     

Note 1   Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions    
      
  63   
 
     Note 2   Our Significant Accounting Policies    
      
  68   
 
     Note 3   Restructuring and Impairment Charges    
      
  71   
 
     Note 4   Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets    
      
  72   
 
     Note 5   Income Taxes    
      
  74   
 
     Note 6   Stock-Based Compensation    
      
  77   
 
     Note 7   Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans    
      
  80   
 
     Note 8   Noncontrolled Bottling Affiliates    
      
  85   
 
     Note 9   Debt Obligations and Commitments    
      
  88   
 
     Note 10   Risk Management    
      
  91   
 
     Note 11   Net Income per Common Share    
      
  94   
 
     Note 12   Preferred Stock    
      
  94   
 
     Note 13   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss    
      
  95   
 
     Note 14   Supplemental Financial Information    
      
  96   
 
      MANAGEMENT S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING     
      
  98   
 
      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     
      
  100   
 
      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     
      
  101   
 
      FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY     
      
  102   
 
      GLOSSARY     
      
  103   
       
   22   

Table of Contents  

    Our discussion and analysis is an integral part of understanding our financial results. Definitions of
key terms can be found in the glossary on page 103. Tabular dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts reflect common per share amounts, assume dilution unless noted, and are based on unrounded amounts.
Percentage changes are based on unrounded amounts.        
  OUR
  BUSINESS        Our Operations       We are a leading global snack and beverage company. We manufacture, market and sell a variety of salty, convenient, sweet and grain-based snacks, carbonated and non-carbonated beverages and foods.      Our commitment to sustainable growth, defined as Performance with Purpose, is focused on generating healthy financial returns while giving back to
the communities we serve. This includes meeting consumer needs for a spectrum of convenient foods and beverages, reducing our impact on the environment through water, energy and packaging initiatives, and supporting our employees through a diverse
and inclusive culture that recruits and retains world-class talent. In September 2007, we were again included on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index and were also added to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. These lists are
compiled annually.      We are organized into four divisions:       

Frito-Lay North America,          

PepsiCo Beverages North America,          

PepsiCo International, and          

Quaker Foods North America.         Our
North American divisions operate in the U.S. and Canada. Our international division sells products in approximately 200 countries, with our largest operations in Mexico and the United Kingdom. Additional information concerning our divisions and
geographic areas is presented in Note 1.        Frito-Lay North America        Frito-Lay North America (FLNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets, sells and distributes branded snacks. These snacks include Lay s potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips,
Tostitos tortilla chips, Cheetos cheese flavored snacks, branded dips, Fritos corn chips, Ruffles potato chips, Quaker Chewy granola bars, SunChips multigrain snacks, Rold Gold pretzels, Santitas tortilla chips, Grandma s cookies, Frito-Lay
nuts, Munchies snack mix, Gamesa cookies, Funyuns onion flavored rings, Quaker Quakes corn and rice snacks, Miss Vickie s potato chips, Stacy s pita chips, Smartfood popcorn, Chester s fries, branded crackers and Flat Earth
crisps. FLNA branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

     PepsiCo Beverages North America        PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands
including Pepsi, Mountain Dew, Gatorade, Tropicana Pure Premium, Sierra Mist, Propel, Tropicana juice drinks, Dole, SoBe Life Water, Naked juice and Izze. PBNA also manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea,
coffee and water products through joint ventures with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks. In addition, PBNA licenses the Aquafina water brand to its bottlers and markets this brand. PBNA sells concentrate and finished goods for
some of these brands to authorized bottlers, and some of these branded products are sold directly by us to independent distributors and retailers. The bottlers sell our brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers. PBNA s
volume reflects sales to its independent distributors and retailers, as well as the sales of beverages bearing our trademarks that bottlers have reported as sold to independent distributors and retailers. Bottler case sales (BCS) and concentrate
shipments and equivalents (CSE) are not necessarily equal during any given period due to seasonality, timing of product launches, product mix, bottler inventory practices and other factors. While our revenues are not based on BCS volume, we believe
that BCS is a valuable measure as it measures the sell-through of our products at the consumer level.        PepsiCo International   
     PepsiCo International (PI) manufactures through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates, a number of leading
salty and sweet snack brands including Gamesa, Lay s, Doritos, Walkers, Cheetos, Ruffles and Sabritas. Further, PI manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells many Quaker brand cereals and snacks. PI also manufactures,
markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under the brands Pepsi, 7UP, Mirinda, Mountain Dew, Gatorade and Tropicana. These brands are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. However, in
certain markets, PI operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. PI also manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through a joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name).
In addition, PI licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers. PI reports two measures of volume. Snack volume is reported on a system-wide basis, which includes our own sales and the sales by our noncontrolled affiliates
of snacks bearing Company-owned or licensed trademarks. Beverage volume reflects Company-owned or authorized bottler sales of beverages bearing Company-owned or licensed trademarks to independent distributors and retailers. BCS and CSE are not
necessarily equal during any given period due to seasonality, timing of product launches, product mix, bottler inventory practices and other factors. While our revenues are not based on BCS volume, we believe that BCS is a valuable measure as it
measures the sell-through of our products at the consumer level.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

     Quaker Foods North America        Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNA s products include Quaker oatmeal, Aunt
Jemima mixes and syrups, Life cereal, Cap n Crunch cereal, Quaker grits, Rice-A-Roni, Pasta Roni and Near East side dishes. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers.        New Organizational Structure        In the fourth quarter of 2007, we announced a strategic realignment of our organizational structure into three new business units, as follows:       

(1)   
    PepsiCo Americas Foods (PAF), which includes FLNA, QFNA and all of our Latin American food and snack businesses (LAF), including our Sabritas and Gamesa
businesses in Mexico;          

(2)   
    PepsiCo Americas Beverages (PAB), which includes PBNA and all of our Latin American beverage businesses; and          

(3)   
    PepsiCo International (PI), which includes all PepsiCo businesses in the United Kingdom, Europe, Asia, Middle East and Africa.         In 2008, our three business units will be comprised of six reportable segments, as follows:       

FLNA,          

QFNA,          

LAF,          

PAB,          

United Kingdom   Europe, and          

Middle East, Africa   Asia.         In the first quarter of 2008, our historical segment reporting will be restated to reflect the new structure. The segment amounts and discussions reflected in this Form 10-K reflect the management reporting that existed through fiscal
year-end 2007.       A Perspective from our Chairman and CEO        The questions below reflect those often asked by our shareholders about key areas of our businesses. The answers come from our Chairman and CEO, Indra Nooyi.        In November 2007, PepsiCo announced a new organizational structure. What drove this decision, and how will the restructuring impact financial results?
         
   25   

Table of Contents  

   Given our robust growth in recent years, we felt it was time to manage the Company as three units instead
of two   both to allow us to sustain our growth rate and also to develop global senior leadership talent for PepsiCo s future. We therefore created three operating business units: PAF, PAB and PI.      We are confident this organizational structure will help us deliver strong top-line performance and profit growth for the following reasons:   

Each sector has significant scale and growth potential, operates across multiple geographies, and is comprised of both developed and developing markets;

This facilitates our ability to leverage both capabilities and innovation between our international and North American businesses;      

With each sector being of significant scale, more executives will have the opportunity to run large operating businesses and gain global operating experience;
and          

It enables us to extend the competitive advantages of our very successful Power of One initiatives by making them increasingly global.
        Finally, investors will receive more granular international performance data, as we will report volume, revenue and
operating profit for six PepsiCo segments, versus four in the previous structure.       How is PepsiCo reacting to the changing global
economy, particularly the slowing U.S. economy?       It is likely the world economies outside the emerging countries will slow in 2008
  although our businesses have generally proved pretty resilient in past economic downturns. It s also clear that inflation in commodity costs has accelerated, particularly as it relates to grains and energy. We will be utilizing all of
the tools at our disposal to address rising inflation. From a productivity standpoint, we re accelerating efforts across the entire business system: product formulations, ingredient sourcing, trade efficiencies, manufacturing, go-to-market and
administrative expenses. In addition, we will be looking to gain effective pricing, both through innovative new products as well as through a judicious combination of mix management, product weight-outs, and absolute pricing. As always, our
decisions are grounded in the consumer, customer and competitive environments in each market.      Underlying these efforts are the important
structural advantages we have across the world. Our brands have highly loyal and engaged consumers; they are affordable treats and healthy eats; and the strength of our go-to-market systems makes them readily available to consumers.      And as a team, we remain committed to managing for the long term, executing with excellence and consistently delivering our annual targets.   
     
   26   

Table of Contents  

    How are you responding to the category shift in consumer beverage consumption between CSDs and
non-carbonated beverages (NCB), particularly in the U.S.?       We know that consumers have changing desires, and we are continually
transforming our beverage portfolio in response to these changes.      Consumers respond to innovation in the CSD category, and so we continue
to invigorate our flagship CSDs: Pepsi, Diet Pepsi and Mountain Dew. Last year, we launched Diet Pepsi Max in the U.S., a no calorie beverage with the energy boost of added caffeine and ginseng; and we launched Mountain Dew Game Fuel, created in
conjunction with Microsoft s Xbox 360 exclusive title, Halo 3, marking the first time a soft drink has been created specifically for video gamers.      We have also introduced new carbonated juice drinks like Izze, an all-natural sparkling fruit juice brand that we acquired in 2006; and we have a growing energy drink business with Amp Energy, SoBe Adrenaline Rush and
No Fear.      In NCBs, we have made great progress in the nutrition category with the acquisition of Naked Juice and our recent introduction of
Tropicana Pure.      We have U.S. category leadership positions with many of our NCB brands, including Aquafina, the number one national PET
water brand; Lipton, the number one ready-to-drink tea and the number one ready-to-drink coffee with Starbucks Frappuccino.      PepsiCo
defines the performance category with our number one sports drink Gatorade; and with our recent launch of G2 we have added a low-calorie, off-the-field hydration answer for athletes. Rounding out the NCB portfolio are great enhanced water brands
including our low-calorie reformulated SoBe Life Water and Propel Fitness Waters.      Across the entire spectrum of categories, our continued
focus on R D and innovation as well as consumer insights enable us to adapt and continually meet consumer needs, while still leveraging the global strength of our flagship CSD beverage portfolio.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

    What progress has PepsiCo made in its SAP implementation?       PepsiCo s multi-year technology transformation initiative continues on track. At the end of 2007, we kicked off our third major deployment by
successfully implementing new capabilities to PCNA and the Quaker, Tropicana and Gatorade businesses (QTG). These implementations build on earlier SAP releases, enhancing the order management and demand planning functions for QTG and deliver new
capability to PCNA s fountain equipment service model. They also lay the groundwork to convert all of the financial processes, contracts and projects to SAP technology.      On the international front we went live with SAP financials at Gamesa and Sabritas and launched our first plant in Saltillo, Mexico; successfully integrated our Duyvis acquisition onto our new
global platform; and launched China Beverages. We are working toward 2008 implementations in Egypt and Saudi Arabia.      We remain confident
in the capabilities and business case that our transformation initiative will deliver.       PepsiCo s businesses generate a lot of
cash, and some people may believe the Company s balance sheet is conservative. Will investors see any changes in capital structure, acquisition activity or increased share repurchases?       PepsiCo does generate considerable cash, and we are disciplined about how cash is reinvested in the business. Over the past three years, over $6 billion has been reinvested in the businesses
through capital expenditures to fuel growth. All cash not reinvested in the business is returned to our shareholders. Since 2005, $16 billion has been returned to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases; and in 2007,
cash returned to shareholders was up 34%. We will generally use our borrowing capacity in order to fund acquisitions   which was the case in 2007, when we spent $1.3 billion in acquisitions to enhance our future growth and create value for our
shareholders. Our current capital structure and debt ratings give us ready access to capital markets and keep our cost of borrowing down.       In 2007, you expanded your joint venture agreements with Starbucks and Unilever. Does this represent a new growth model for PepsiCo?       We have great partnerships on ready-to-drink beverages with both Starbucks and Unilever. If what it takes to win in a certain marketplace is to partner with other brands and together make the pie much bigger, then we will apply that model
to grow our businesses.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

   A key factor in these successful partnerships is that PepsiCo is not simply a distributor. The
development of these brands is included in the partnerships between our companies on a worldwide scale, and that certainly distinguishes our model.      Growth will also come from the enormous opportunities we see for tuck-in acquisitions. We are also expanding into adjacent categories through our recently announced acquisition of Penelopa nuts and seeds in Bulgaria and our 2006 purchase of
the Duyvis nuts business in Europe. Last year, we entered the salty snacks business in New Zealand with the acquisition of Bluebird Foods, and we expanded our snacks business in Brazil with the purchase of Lucky snacks. We also recently announced a
joint venture with the Strauss Group to produce and sell Sabra refrigerated dips and spreads in the U.S. and Canada. In 2007, Sabra was the top-selling and fastest-growing maker of hummus in the U.S. And we expanded our global juice footprint by
acquiring U.S.-based Naked Juice, and the Sandora juice business in the Ukraine, which we purchased in a joint venture with PepsiAmericas, Inc. (PAS).      So there are tremendous opportunities for us to continue to grow   through partnerships, as well as organically, and with tuck-in acquisitions.       
  Our
  Customers
         Our customers include authorized bottlers and independent distributors, including foodservice distributors,
and retailers. We normally grant our bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements provide the Company with the right to charge our
bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and Aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality.      Since
we do not sell directly to the consumer, we rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our products. For our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume-based
rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. For our bottlers, these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade and consumer programs, such as consumer
incentives, advertising support, new product support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. Consumer incentives include coupons, pricing discounts and promotions, and other promotional offers. Advertising support is directed at advertising
programs and supporting bottler media. New product support includes targeted consumer and retailer incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point-of-purchase materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. Vending and cooler
equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending machines and cooler equipment. The nature and type of programs vary annually.      Retail consolidation continues to increase the importance of major customers. In 2007, sales to Wal-Mart (including Sam s) represented approximately 12% of our total net revenue. Our top five retail customers
represented approximately 31% of our 2007 North American net revenue, with Wal-Mart (including Sam s) representing  
       
   29   

Table of Contents  

approximately 18%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. In addition,
sales to PBG represented approximately 9% of our total net revenue. See  Our Related Party Bottlers  and Note 8 for more information on our anchor bottlers.        
  Our Related Party Bottlers        We have ownership interests in certain of our bottlers. Our ownership is less
than 50%, and since we do not control these bottlers, we do not consolidate their results. We include our share of their net income based on our percentage of economic ownership in our income statement as bottling equity income. We have designated
three related party bottlers, PBG, PAS and Pepsi Bottling Ventures LLC (PBV), as our anchor bottlers. Our anchor bottlers distribute approximately 58% of our North American beverage volume and approximately 18% of our international beverage volume.
Our anchor bottlers participate in the bottler funding programs described above. Approximately 6% of our total 2007 sales incentives are related to these bottlers. See Note 8 for additional information on these related parties and related party
commitments and guarantees.       Our Distribution Network       Our products are brought to market through DSD, broker-warehouse and foodservice and vending distribution networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade
practices.        Direct-Store-Delivery        We, our bottlers and our distributors operate direct-store-delivery systems that deliver snacks and beverages directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our bottlers.   DSD
enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. DSD is especially well-suited to products that are restocked often and respond to in-store promotion and merchandising.        Broker-Warehouse        Some of our products are delivered from our
manufacturing plants and warehouses to customer warehouses and retail stores. These less costly systems generally work best for products that are less fragile and perishable, have lower turnover, and are less likely to be impulse purchases.
       Foodservice and Vending        Our foodservice and vending sales force distributes snacks, foods and beverages to third-party foodservice and vending distributors and operators. Our foodservice and vending sales force also distributes certain beverages through our
bottlers. This distribution system supplies our products to schools, businesses, stadiums, restaurants and similar locations.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

    Our Competition       Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. In U.S. measured
channels, we have a similar share of CSD consumption and a larger share of liquid refreshment beverages consumption, as compared to our chief beverage competitor, The Coca-Cola Company. However, The Coca-Cola Company has a significant CSD share
advantage in many markets outside the U.S. Further, our snack brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack industry worldwide. Our snack brands face local and regional competitors, as well as national and global snack competitors, and
compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products and the introduction of new products. We believe that the strength of our
brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allow us to compete effectively.       Other Relationships       Certain members of our Board of Directors also serve on the boards of certain
vendors and customers. Those Board members do not participate in our vendor selection and negotiations nor in our customer negotiations. Our transactions with these vendors and customers are in the normal course of business and are consistent with
terms negotiated with other vendors and customers. In addition, certain of our employees serve on the boards of our anchor bottlers and other affiliated companies and do not receive incremental compensation for their Board services.       
  Our
  Business Risks       We are subject to risks in the normal course of business. See  Risk Factors  in
Item 1A. above and  Market Risks  below for more information about these risks.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

     Risk Management Framework        The achievement of our strategic and operating objectives will necessarily involve taking risks. Our risk management process is intended to ensure that risks are taken knowingly and purposefully.
As such, we leverage an integrated risk management framework to identify, assess, prioritize, manage, monitor and communicate risks across the Company. This framework includes:       

The PepsiCo Executive Council (PEC), comprised of a cross-functional, geographically diverse, senior management group which identifies, assesses, prioritizes and
addresses strategic and reputational risks;          

Division Risk Committees (DRCs), comprised of cross-functional senior management teams which meet regularly each year to identify, assess, prioritize and address
division-specific operating risks;          

PepsiCo s Risk Management Office, which manages the overall risk management process, provides ongoing guidance, tools and analytical support to the PEC and
the DRCs, identifies and assesses potential risks, and facilitates ongoing communication between the parties, as well as to PepsiCo s Audit Committee and Board of Directors;          

PepsiCo Corporate Audit, which evaluates the ongoing effectiveness of our key internal controls through periodic audit and review procedures; and

PepsiCo s Compliance Office, which leads and coordinates our compliance policies and practices.           Market Risks        We are exposed
to market risks arising from adverse changes in:       

commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy,          

foreign exchange rates, and          

interest rates.         In the normal
course of business, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, including productivity initiatives, global purchasing programs and hedging strategies. Ongoing productivity initiatives involve the identification and effective
implementation of meaningful cost saving opportunities or efficiencies. Our global purchasing programs include fixed-price purchase orders and pricing agreements. Our hedging strategies include the use of derivatives. Certain derivatives are
designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges and qualify for hedge accounting treatment, while others do not qualify and are marked to market through earnings. We do not use derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes, and we
limit our exposure to individual counterparties to manage credit risk. The fair value of our derivatives fluctuates based on market rates and prices. The sensitivity of our derivatives to these market fluctuations is discussed below. See Note 10 for
further discussion of these derivatives and our hedging policies. See  Our Critical Accounting Policies  for a discussion of the exposure of our pension plan assets and pension and retiree medical liabilities to risks related to stock
prices and discount rates.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

   Inflationary, deflationary and recessionary conditions impacting these market risks also impact the
demand for and pricing of our products. See  Risk Factors  in Item 1A. for further discussion.       Commodity Prices  
     Our open commodity derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting had a face value of $5 million at December 29, 2007 and $55
million at December 30, 2006. The open derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting resulted in net unrealized gains of less than $1 million at December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006. We estimate that a 10% decline in
commodity prices would have had no impact on our net unrealized gains in 2007.      Our open commodity derivative contracts that do not qualify
for hedge accounting had a face value of $105 million at December 29, 2007 and $196 million at December 30, 2006. The open derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting resulted in net gains of $3 million in 2007 and net
losses of $28 million in 2006. We estimate that a 10% decline in commodity prices would have had no impact on our net gains in 2007.      We
expect to be able to continue to reduce the impact of increases in our raw material and energy costs through our hedging strategies and ongoing productivity initiatives.       Foreign Exchange       Financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using
period-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities and weighted-average exchange rates for revenues and expenses. Adjustments resulting from translating net assets are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within
shareholders  equity under the caption currency translation adjustment.      Our operations outside of the U.S. generate 44% of our net
revenue, with Mexico, the United Kingdom and Canada comprising 19% of our net revenue. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency risks. During 2007, net favorable foreign currency, primarily due to appreciation in the euro, British pound,
Canadian dollar and Brazilian real, contributed 2 percentage points to net revenue growth. Currency declines which are not offset could adversely impact our future results.      Exchange rate gains or losses related to foreign currency transactions are recognized as transaction gains or losses in our income statement as incurred. We may enter into derivatives to manage
our exposure to foreign currency transaction risk. Our foreign currency derivatives had a total face value of $1.6 billion at December 29, 2007 and $1.0 billion at December 30, 2006. The contracts that qualify for hedge accounting resulted
in net unrealized losses of $44 million at December 29, 2007 and $6 million at December 30, 2006. We estimate that an unfavorable 10% change in the exchange rates would have resulted in net unrealized losses of $152 million in 2007. The
contracts not meeting the criteria for hedge accounting resulted in a net gain of $15 million in 2007 and a net loss of $10 million in 2006. All losses and gains were offset by changes in the underlying hedged items, resulting in no net material
impact on earnings.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

    Interest Rates       We centrally manage our debt and investment portfolios considering investment opportunities and risks, tax consequences and overall financing strategies. We may use interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps
to manage our overall interest expense and foreign exchange risk. These instruments effectively change the interest rate and currency of specific debt issuances. These swaps are entered into concurrently with the issuance of the debt that they are
intended to modify. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt. Our counterparty credit risk is considered low because these swaps are entered into
only with strong creditworthy counterparties and are generally settled on a net basis.      Assuming year-end 2007 variable rate debt and
investment levels, a 1-percentage-point increase in interest rates would have decreased net interest expense by $1 million in 2007.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES       An appreciation of our critical accounting policies is necessary to
understand our financial results. These policies may require management to make difficult and subjective judgments regarding uncertainties, and as a result, such estimates may significantly impact our financial results. The precision of these
estimates and the likelihood of future changes depend on a number of underlying variables and a range of possible outcomes. Other than our accounting for pension plans, our critical accounting policies do not involve the choice between alternative
methods of accounting. We applied our critical accounting policies and estimation methods consistently in all material respects, and for all periods presented, and have discussed these policies with our Audit Committee.      Our critical accounting policies arise in conjunction with the following:       

revenue recognition,          

brand and goodwill valuations,          

income tax expense and accruals, and          

pension and retiree medical plans.          Revenue Recognition       Our products are sold for cash or on credit terms. Our credit terms, which are established in
accordance with local and industry practices, typically require payment within 30 days of delivery in the U.S., and generally within 30 to 90 days internationally, and may allow discounts for early payment. We recognize revenue upon shipment or
delivery to our customers based on written sales terms that do not allow for a right of return. However, our policy for DSD and chilled products is to remove and replace damaged and out-of-date products from store shelves to ensure that consumers
receive the product quality and freshness they expect. Similarly, our policy for warehouse-distributed products is to replace damaged and out-of-date products. Based on our historical experience with this practice, we have reserved for anticipated
damaged and out-of-date products. Our bottlers have a similar replacement policy and are responsible for the products they distribute.      Our
policy is to provide customers with product when needed. In fact, our commitment to freshness and product dating serves to regulate the quantity of product shipped or delivered. In addition, DSD products are placed on the shelf by our employees with
customer shelf space limiting the quantity of product. For product delivered through our other distribution networks, customer inventory levels are monitored.      As discussed in  Our Customers,  we offer sales incentives and discounts through various programs to customers and consumers. Sales incentives and discounts are accounted for as a reduction of revenue and
totaled $11.3 billion in 2007, $10.1 billion in 2006 and $8.9 billion in 2005. Sales incentives include payments to customers for performing merchandising activities on our behalf, such as payments for in-store displays, payments to gain
distribution of new products, payments for shelf space and  
       
   35   

Table of Contents  

discounts to promote lower retail prices. A number of our sales incentives, such as bottler funding and customer volume rebates, are based on annual targets,
and accruals are established during the year for the expected payout. These accruals are based on contract terms and our historical experience with similar programs and require management judgment with respect to estimating customer participation
and performance levels. Differences between estimated expense and actual incentive costs are normally insignificant and are recognized in earnings in the period such differences are determined. The terms of most of our incentive arrangements do not
exceed a year, and therefore do not require highly uncertain long-term estimates. For interim reporting, we estimate total annual sales incentives for most of our programs and record a pro rata share in proportion to revenue. Certain arrangements,
such as fountain pouring rights, may extend beyond one year. The costs incurred to obtain incentive arrangements are recognized over the shorter of the economic or contractual life, as a reduction of revenue, and the remaining balances of $287
million at year-end 2007 and $297 million at year-end 2006 are included in current assets and other assets on our balance sheet.      We
estimate and reserve for our bad debt exposure based on our experience with past due accounts. Bad debt expense is classified within selling, general and administrative expenses in our income statement.       Brand and Goodwill Valuations       We
sell products under a number of brand names, many of which were developed by us. The brand development costs are expensed as incurred. We also purchase brands in acquisitions. Upon acquisition, the purchase price is first allocated to identifiable
assets and liabilities, including brands, based on estimated fair value, with any remaining purchase price recorded as goodwill. Determining fair value requires significant estimates and assumptions based on an evaluation of a number of factors,
such as marketplace participants, product life cycles, market share, consumer awareness, brand history and future expansion expectations, amount and timing of future cash flows and the discount rate applied to the cash flows.      We believe that a brand has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong revenue and cash flow performance, and we have the intent and ability to
support the brand with marketplace spending for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual brand criteria are not met, brands are amortized over their expected useful lives, which generally range from five to 40 years. Determining the expected life
of a brand requires management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors, including market share, consumer awareness, brand history and future expansion expectations, as well as the macroeconomic environment of the countries in
which the brand is sold.      Perpetual brands and goodwill, including the goodwill that is part of our noncontrolled bottling investment
balances, are not amortized. Perpetual brands and goodwill are assessed for impairment at least annually. If the carrying amount of a perpetual brand exceeds its fair value, as determined by its discounted cash flows, an impairment loss is
recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Goodwill is evaluated using a two-step impairment test at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit can be a division or business  
       
   36   

Table of Contents  

within a division. The first step compares the book value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, with its fair value, as determined by its discounted cash
flows. If the book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we complete the second step to determine the amount of goodwill impairment loss that we should record. In the second step, we determine an implied fair value of the reporting
unit s goodwill by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities other than goodwill (including any unrecognized intangible assets). The amount of impairment loss is equal to the excess of the book value
of the goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill.      Amortizable brands are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant
change in the operating or macroeconomic environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted future cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on its discounted future cash flows.   
  Management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate future cash flows. Assumptions used in
our impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are based on the best available market information and are consistent with our internal forecasts and operating plans. These assumptions could be adversely impacted
by certain of the risks discussed in  
 Risk Factors   in Item 1A.      We did not recognize any impairment charges for perpetual brands or
goodwill in the years presented. As of December 29, 2007, we had $6.4 billion of perpetual brands and goodwill, of which approximately 60% related to Tropicana and Walkers.       Income Tax Expense and Accruals       Our annual tax rate is based on our income,
statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish reserves when,
despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are subject to challenge and that we may not succeed. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and
circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit.      An estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to our quarterly operating
results. In the event there is a significant or unusual item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is separately calculated and recorded at the same time as that item. We consider the tax adjustments from
the resolution of prior year tax matters to be such items.      Tax law requires items to be included in our tax returns at different times
than the items are reflected in our financial statements. As a result, our annual tax rate reflected in our financial statements is different than that reported in our tax returns (our cash tax rate). Some of these differences are permanent, such as
expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets  
       
   37   

Table of Contents  

generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in our tax returns in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit
in our income statement. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax liabilities
generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which we have already taken a deduction in our tax return but have not yet recognized as expense in our financial statements.
     In 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  (FIN 48), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in tax positions. FIN 48 requires that we recognize in our financial statements the impact of a tax position, if that
position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. We adopted the provisions of FIN 48 as of the beginning of our 2007 fiscal year. As a result of our adoption of FIN 48, we recognized a $7
million decrease to reserves for income taxes, with a corresponding increase to opening retained earnings. See Note 5 for additional information regarding our tax reserves and our adoption of FIN 48.      In 2007, our annual tax rate was 25.9% compared to 19.3% in 2006 as discussed in  Other Consolidated Results.  The tax rate in 2007 increased
6.6 percentage points primarily reflecting an unfavorable comparison to the prior year s non-cash tax benefits. In 2008, our annual tax rate is expected to be 27.5%, primarily reflecting the absence of the non-cash tax benefits recorded in
2007.       Pension and Retiree Medical Plans       Our pension plans cover full-time employees in the U.S. and certain international employees. Benefits are determined based on either years of service or a combination of years of service and earnings. U.S. and Canada
retirees are also eligible for medical and life insurance benefits (retiree medical) if they meet age and service requirements. Generally, our share of retiree medical costs is capped at specified dollar amounts that vary based upon years of
service, with retirees contributing the remainder of the cost.      On December 30, 2006, we adopted SFAS 158,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  (SFAS 158). In connection with our adoption, we recognized the funded status of our pension and retiree
medical plans (our Plans) on our balance sheet as of December 30, 2006 with subsequent changes in the funded status recognized in comprehensive income in the years in which they occur. In accordance with SFAS 158, amounts prior to the year of
adoption have not been adjusted. SFAS 158 also requires that, no later than 2008, our assumptions used to measure our annual pension and retiree medical expense be determined as of the balance sheet date, and all plan assets and liabilities be
reported as of that date. Accordingly, as of the beginning of our 2008 fiscal year, we will change the measurement date for our annual pension and retiree medical expense and all plan assets and liabilities from September 30 to our year-

38   

Table of Contents  

end balance sheet date.   As a result of this change in measurement date, we will record an after-tax $7 million reduction to 2008 opening
shareholders  equity which will be reflected in our 2008 first quarter Form 10-Q. For further information regarding the impact of our adoption of SFAS 158, see Note 7.        Our Assumptions        The determination of pension and retiree medical plan
obligations and related expenses requires the use of assumptions to estimate the amount of the benefits that employees earn while working, as well as the present value of those benefits. Annual pension and retiree medical expense amounts are
principally based on four components: (1) the value of benefits earned by employees for working during the year (service cost), (2) increase in the liability due to the passage of time (interest cost), and (3) other gains and losses as discussed
below, reduced by (4) expected return on plan assets for our funded plans.      Significant assumptions used to measure our annual pension and
retiree medical expense include:       

the interest rate used to determine the present value of liabilities (discount rate);          

certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality;          

for pension expense, the expected return on assets in our funded plans and the rate of salary increases for plans where benefits are based on earnings; and

for retiree medical expense, health care cost trend rates.         Our assumptions reflect our historical experience and management s best judgment regarding future expectations. Due to the significant management judgment involved, our assumptions could have a material impact on
the measurement of our pension and retiree medical benefit expenses and obligations.      At each measurement date, the discount rate is based
on interest rates for high-quality, long-term corporate debt securities with maturities comparable to those of our liabilities. In the U.S., we use the Moody s Aa Corporate Bond Index yield (Moody s Aa Index) and adjust for differences
between the average duration of the bonds in this Index and the average duration of our benefit liabilities, based upon a published index. As of the beginning of our 2008 fiscal year, our discount rate will be determined using the Mercer Pension
Discount Yield Curve (Mercer Yield Curve). The Mercer Yield Curve uses a portfolio of high-quality bonds rated Aa or higher by Moody s. We believe the Mercer Yield Curve includes bonds that provide a better match to the timing and amount of
expected benefit payments than the Moody s Aa Index.      The expected return on pension plan assets is based on our historical
experience, our pension plan investment strategy and our expectations for long-term rates of return. Our pension plan investment strategy is reviewed annually and is established based upon plan liabilities, an evaluation of market conditions,
tolerance for risk, and cash requirements for benefit payments. As part of our investment strategy, we employ certain equity strategies which, in addition to investing in U.S. and international common and preferred stock, include investing in
certain equity- and debt-based securities used collectively to  
       
   39   

Table of Contents  

generate returns in excess of certain equity-based indices. Our investment policy also permits the use of derivative instruments to enhance the overall
return of the portfolio. Our expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is 7.8%, reflecting estimated long-term rates of return of 9.3% from our equity strategies, and 5.8% from our fixed income strategies. Our target investment
allocation is 60% for equity strategies and 40% for fixed income strategies. We use a market-related valuation method for recognizing investment gains or losses. For this purpose, investment gains or losses are the difference between the expected
and actual return based on the market-related value of assets. This market-related valuation method recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur, which has the effect of reducing year-to-year
volatility. Expense in future periods will be impacted as gains or losses are recognized in the market-related value of assets over the five-year period.      Other gains and losses resulting from actual experience differing from our assumptions and from changes in our assumptions are also determined at each measurement date. If this net accumulated gain or loss exceeds 10%
of the greater of plan assets or liabilities, a portion of the net gain or loss is included in expense for the following year. The cost or benefit of plan changes that increase or decrease benefits for prior employee service (prior service
cost/(credit)) is included in earnings on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of active plan participants, which is approximately 11 years for pension expense and approximately 13 years for retiree medical expense.
     Effective as of the beginning of our 2008 fiscal year, we amended our U.S. hourly pension plan to increase the amount of participant
earnings recognized in determining pension benefits. Additional pension plan amendments were also made as of the beginning of our 2008 fiscal year to comply with legislative and regulatory changes.      The health care trend rate used to determine our retiree medical plan s liability and expense is reviewed annually. Our review is based on our claim
experience, information provided by our health plans and actuaries, and our knowledge of the health care industry. Our review of the trend rate considers factors such as demographics, plan design, new medical technologies and changes in medical
carriers.      Weighted-average assumptions for pension and retiree medical expense are as follows:       
       
   40   

Table of Contents  

     Sensitivity of Assumptions        A decrease in the discount rate or in the expected rate of return assumptions would increase pension expense. The estimated impact of a 25-basis-point decrease in the discount rate on 2008
pension expense is an increase of approximately $36 million. The estimated impact on 2008 pension expense of a 25-basis-point decrease in the expected rate of return is an increase of approximately $17 million.      See Note 7 regarding the sensitivity of our retiree medical cost assumptions.        Future Funding        We make contributions to pension trusts maintained to
provide plan benefits for certain pension plans. These contributions are made in accordance with applicable tax regulations that provide for current tax deductions for our contributions, and taxation to the employee only upon receipt of plan
benefits. Generally, we do not fund our pension plans when our contributions would not be currently deductible.      Our pension contributions
for 2007 were $230 million, of which $92 million was discretionary. In 2008, we expect to make contributions of up to $150 million with up to $75 million expected to be discretionary. Our cash payments for retiree medical are estimated to be
approximately $85 million in 2008. As our retiree medical plans are not subject to regulatory funding requirements, we fund these plans on a pay-as-you-go basis. Our pension and retiree medical contributions are subject to change as a result of many
factors, such as changes in interest rates, deviations between actual and expected asset returns, and changes in tax or other benefit laws. For estimated future benefit payments, including our pay-as-you-go payments as well as those from trusts, see
Note 7.       Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements  (SAB 108), to
address diversity in practice in quantifying financial statement misstatements. SAB 108 requires that we quantify misstatements based on their impact on each of our financial statements and related disclosures. On December 30, 2006, we adopted
SAB 108. Our adoption of SAB 108 did not impact our financial statements.      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157,  Fair Value
Measurements  (SFAS 157) ,  which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The provisions of SFAS 157 are effective as of the beginning of our 2008 fiscal
year. However, the FASB deferred the effective date of SFAS 157, until the beginning of our 2009 fiscal year, as it relates to fair value measurement requirements for nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are not remeasured at fair value on a
recurring basis. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS 157 on our financial statements. We do not expect our adoption to have a material impact on our financial statements.         
   41   

Table of Contents  

   In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS 159), which permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. The provisions of SFAS 159 are effective as of the
beginning of our 2008 fiscal year. Our adoption of SFAS 159 will not impact our financial statements.      In December 2007, the FASB issued
SFAS 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (SFAS 141R), and SFAS 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  (SFAS 160) ,  to improve, simplify, and converge internationally the accounting for business
combinations and the reporting of noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The provisions of SFAS 141R and SFAS 160 are effective as of the beginning of our 2009 fiscal year. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting
SFAS 141R and SFAS 160 on our financial statements.         
   42   

Table of Contents  

    OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS        Items Affecting Comparability       The year-over-year comparisons of our financial
results are affected by the following items:       
     For the items affecting our 2005 results, see Notes 3 and 5, as well as our 2006 Annual Report.
        Restructuring and Impairment Charges        In 2007, we incurred a charge of $102 million in conjunction with restructuring actions primarily to close certain plants and rationalize other production lines across FLNA, PBNA and PI.      In 2006, we incurred a charge of $67 million in conjunction with consolidating the manufacturing network at FLNA by closing two plants in the U.S., and
rationalizing other assets, to increase manufacturing productivity and supply chain efficiencies.        Tax Benefits     
  In 2007, we recognized $129 million of non-cash tax benefits related to the favorable resolution of certain foreign tax matters.      In 2006, we recognized non-cash tax benefits of $602 million, substantially all of which related to the Internal Revenue Service s (IRS) examination
of our consolidated tax returns for the years 1998 through 2002.        PepsiCo Share of PBG Tax Settlement        In 2006, the IRS concluded its examination of PBG s consolidated income tax returns for the years 1999 through 2000 (PBG s Tax Settlement).
Consequently, a non-cash benefit of $21 million was included in bottling equity income as part of recording our share of PBG s financial results.         
   43   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations   Consolidated Review       In the discussions of net revenue and operating profit below,  effective net pricing  reflects the year-over-year impact of discrete pricing actions,
sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in different package sizes and in different countries.        Servings        Since our divisions each use different measures of physical unit volume (i.e., kilos, gallons, pounds and
case sales), a common servings metric is necessary to reflect our consolidated physical unit volume. Our divisions  physical volume measures are converted into servings based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines for single-serving
sizes of our products.      In 2007, total servings increased over 4% compared to 2006, as servings for beverages worldwide grew 4% and
servings for snacks worldwide grew 6%. All of our divisions positively contributed to the total servings growth. In 2006, total servings increased 5.5% compared to 2005, as servings for beverages worldwide grew over 6% and servings for snacks
worldwide grew 5%.          Net Revenue and Operating Profit           
    2007      Net revenue increased 12% primarily reflecting favorable effective net pricing and volume growth. Effective net pricing contributed 4 percentage points and the volume gains contributed 3 percentage points to net
revenue growth. The impact of acquisitions contributed 3 percentage points and foreign currency contributed 2 percentage points to net revenue growth.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

   Total operating profit increased 10% and margin decreased 0.3 percentage points. The operating profit
performance reflects leverage from the revenue growth, offset by increased cost of sales, largely due to higher raw material costs. The impact of foreign currency contributed 2 percentage points to operating profit growth. There was no net impact of
acquisitions and divestitures on operating profit growth.      2006      Net revenue increased 8% primarily reflecting higher volume and positive effective net pricing across all divisions. The volume gains and the effective net pricing each contributed 3 percentage
points to net revenue growth. Acquisitions contributed 1 percentage point and foreign exchange contributed almost 1 percentage point to net revenue growth. The absence of the prior year s additional week reduced net revenue growth by over 1
percentage point and reduced volume growth by almost 1 percentage point.      Total operating profit increased 9% and margin increased 0.1
percentage points. The operating profit gains reflect the net revenue growth, partially offset by the impact of higher raw material and energy costs across all divisions. The absence of the prior year s additional week reduced operating profit
growth by over 1 percentage point.        Corporate Unallocated Expenses        Corporate unallocated expenses include the costs of our corporate headquarters, centrally managed initiatives, such as our ongoing business transformation initiative in North America, unallocated
insurance and benefit programs, foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and certain commodity derivative gains and losses, as well as profit-in-inventory elimination adjustments for our noncontrolled bottling affiliates and certain other
items.      In 2007, corporate unallocated expenses increased 2% primarily reflecting $35 million of increased research and development costs,
partially offset by lower pension costs of $18 million. Gains of $19 million from certain mark-to-market derivatives (compared to $18 million of losses in the prior year) were fully offset by the absence of certain other favorable corporate items in
the prior year.      In 2006, corporate unallocated expenses decreased $42 million primarily reflecting the absence of a non-recurring charge
of $55 million in the prior year to conform our method of accounting across all divisions, primarily for warehouse and freight costs. Higher costs associated with our ongoing business transformation initiative of $35 million, as well as the
unfavorable comparison to the prior year s $25 million gain in connection with the settlement of a class action lawsuit, were offset by the favorable impact of certain other corporate items.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

Other Consolidated Results         
    Bottling equity income includes our share of the net income or loss of our anchor bottlers as
described in  
 Our Customers .  Our interest in these bottling investments may change from time to time. Any gains or losses from these changes, as well as other transactions related to our bottling investments, are also included on a
pre-tax basis. During 2007, we continued to sell shares of PBG stock to reduce our economic ownership to the level at the time of PBG s initial public offering, since our ownership has increased as a result of PBG s share repurchase
program. We sold 9.5 million and 10.0 million shares of PBG stock in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The resulting lower ownership percentage reduces the equity income from PBG that we recognize. In November 2007, our Board of Directors
approved the sale of additional PBG stock to an economic ownership level of 35%, as well as the sale of PAS stock to the ownership level at the time of the merger with Whitman Corporation in 2000 of about 37%.      2007      Bottling equity income increased 1%
reflecting higher earnings from our anchor bottlers, partially offset by the impact of our reduced ownership level in 2007 and lower pre-tax gains on our sale of PBG stock.      Net interest expense increased $33 million primarily reflecting the impact of lower investment balances and higher average rates on our debt, partially offset by higher average interest rates on
our investments and lower average debt balances.      The tax rate increased 6.6 percentage points compared to the prior year primarily
reflecting an unfavorable comparison to the prior year s non-cash tax benefits.      Net income remained flat and the related net income
per share increased 2%. Our solid operating profit growth was offset by unfavorable comparisons to the non-cash tax benefits and restructuring and impairment charges in the prior year. Additionally, net income per share was favorably impacted by our
share repurchases.         
   46   

Table of Contents  

   2006      Bottling equity income increased 12% primarily reflecting a $186 million pre-tax gain on our sale of PBG stock, which compared favorably to a $126 million pre-tax gain in the prior year. The non-cash gain of $21 million from our share of
PBG s Tax Settlement was fully offset by lower equity income from our anchor bottlers in the current year, primarily resulting from the impact of their respective adoptions of SFAS 123R in 2006.      Net interest expense decreased $31 million primarily reflecting higher average rates on our investments and lower debt balances, partially offset by
lower investment balances and the impact of higher average rates on our borrowings.      The tax rate decreased 16.8 percentage points compared
to prior year primarily reflecting the non-cash tax benefits recorded in 2006, the absence of the 2005 tax charge related to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA) and the resolution of certain state income tax audits in the current year.
     Net income increased 38% and the related net income per share increased 40%. These increases primarily reflect the non-cash tax benefits
recorded in 2006, the absence of the AJCA tax charge and our solid operating profit growth.         
   47   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations   Division Review       The results and discussions below are based on how our Chief Executive Officer monitors the performance of our divisions. For additional information on
these items and our divisions, see
 Note 1 .       

(a)   
    Excludes the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. For PBNA and PI, volume growth varies from the amounts disclosed in the following divisional discussions
due primarily to non-consolidated joint venture volume and temporary timing differences between BCS and CSE. Our net revenue for PBNA and PI excludes non-consolidated joint venture volume and is based on CSE.      

(b)   
    Includes the year-over-year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in different package
sizes and in different countries.      

(c)   
    Amounts may not sum due to rounding.            
   48   

Table of Contents  

    Frito-Lay North America        
    2007      Net revenue grew 7% reflecting volume growth of 3% and positive effective net pricing due to pricing actions and favorable mix. Pound volume grew primarily due to high-single-digit growth in trademark Doritos and
double-digit growth in dips, SunChips and multipack. These volume gains were partially offset by a mid-single-digit decline in trademark Lay s.      Operating profit grew 9% primarily reflecting the net revenue growth, as well as a favorable casualty insurance actuarial adjustment reflecting improved safety performance. This growth was partially offset by higher
commodity costs, as well as increased advertising and marketing expenses. Operating profit benefited almost 2 percentage points from the impact of lower restructuring and impairment charges in the current year related to the continued consolidation
of the manufacturing network.      Smart Spot eligible products represented approximately 16% of net revenue. These products experienced
double-digit revenue growth, while the balance of the portfolio had mid-single-digit revenue growth.      2006      Net revenue grew 5% reflecting volume growth of 1% and positive effective net pricing due to salty snack pricing actions and favorable mix. Pound volume
grew primarily due to double-digit growth in SunChips, Multipack and Quaker Rice Cakes. These volume gains were partially offset by low-single-digit declines in trademark Lay s and Doritos. The Stacy s Pita Chip Company acquisition
contributed approximately 0.5 percentage points to both revenue and volume growth. The absence of the prior year s additional week reduced volume and net revenue growth by 2 percentage points.      Operating profit grew 3% reflecting the net revenue growth. This growth was partially offset by higher commodity costs, primarily cooking oil and energy.
Operating profit was also negatively impacted by almost 3 percentage points as a result of a fourth quarter charge for the consolidation of the manufacturing network, including the closure of two plants and rationalization of other manufacturing
assets. The absence of the prior year s additional week, which reduced operating profit growth by 2 percentage points, was  
       
   49   

Table of Contents  

largely offset by the impact of restructuring charges in the prior year to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions.
     Smart Spot eligible products represented approximately 15% of net revenue. These products experienced double-digit revenue growth, while
the balance of the portfolio had low-single-digit revenue growth.       PepsiCo Beverages North America        
    2007      BCS volume was flat due to a 3% decline in CSDs, entirely offset by a 5% increase in non-carbonated beverages. The decline in the CSD portfolio reflects a mid-single-digit decline in trademark Pepsi offset slightly by
a low-single-digit increase in trademark Sierra Mist. Trademark Mountain Dew volume was flat. Across the brands, regular CSDs experienced a mid-single-digit decline and diet CSDs experienced a low-single-digit decline. The non-carbonated portfolio
performance was driven by double-digit growth in Lipton ready-to-drink teas, double-digit growth in waters and enhanced waters under the Aquafina, Propel and SoBe Life Water trademarks and low-single-digit growth in Gatorade, partially offset by a
mid-single-digit decline in our juice and juice drinks portfolio as a result of previous price increases.      Net revenue grew 7% driven by
effective net pricing, primarily reflecting price increases on Tropicana Pure Premium and CSD concentrate and growth in finished goods beverages. Acquisitions contributed 2 percentage points to net revenue growth.      Operating profit increased 6% reflecting the net revenue growth, partially offset by higher cost of sales, mainly due to increased fruit costs, as well
as higher general and administrative costs. The impact of restructuring actions taken in the fourth quarter was fully offset by the favorable impact of Canadian exchange rates during the year. Operating profit was also positively impacted by the
absence of amortization expense related to a prior acquisition, partially offset by the absence of a $29 million favorable insurance settlement, both recorded in 2006. The impact of acquisitions reduced operating profit by less than 1 percentage
point.      Smart Spot eligible products represented over 70% of net revenue. These products experienced mid-single-digit net revenue growth,
while the balance of the portfolio grew in the high-single-digit range.         
   50   

Table of Contents  

   2006      BCS volume grew 4%. The volume increase was driven by a 14% increase in non-carbonated beverages, partially offset by a 2% decline in CSDs. The non-carbonated portfolio performance was driven by double-digit growth in trademark Aquafina,
Gatorade, Lipton ready-to-drink teas, Tropicana juice drinks and Propel. Tropicana Pure Premium experienced a low-single-digit decline in volume. The decline in CSDs reflects a low-single-digit decline in trademark Pepsi, partially offset by a
mid-single-digit increase in trademark Sierra Mist and a low-single-digit increase in trademark Mountain Dew. Across the brands, regular CSDs experienced a low-single-digit decline and diet CSDs declined slightly. The additional week in 2005 had no
significant impact on volume growth as bottler volume is reported based on a calendar month.      Net revenue grew 5%. Positive mix contributed
to the revenue growth, reflecting the strength of non-carbonated beverages. Price increases taken in 2006, primarily on concentrate, Tropicana Pure Premium and fountain, were offset by overall higher trade spending. The absence of the prior
year s additional week reduced net revenue growth by 1 percentage point.      Operating profit increased 1% primarily reflecting the net
revenue growth and lower advertising and marketing expenses. Higher raw material costs, primarily oranges, increased supply chain costs in Gatorade and higher energy costs substantially offset the operating profit increase. Total marketplace
spending for the year increased, reflecting a shift from advertising and marketing spending to trade spending. Additionally, the impact of more-favorable settlements of trade spending accruals in 2005 was mostly offset by a favorable insurance
settlement of $29 million in 2006. The absence of the prior year s additional week, which reduced operating profit growth by 1 percentage point, was fully offset by the impact of charges taken in the fourth quarter of 2005 to reduce costs in
our operations, principally through headcount reductions.      Smart Spot eligible products represented over 70% of net revenue. These products
experienced high-single-digit revenue growth, while the balance of the portfolio declined in the low-single-digit range.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

    PepsiCo International        
    2007      International snacks volume grew 9% reflecting double-digit growth in Russia, the Middle East and Turkey, partially offset by low-single-digit declines at Sabritas in Mexico and Walkers in the United Kingdom.
Additionally, Gamesa in Mexico, India and China all grew at double-digit rates. Overall, the Europe, Middle East   Africa region grew 9%, the Latin America region grew 6% and the Asia Pacific region grew 20%. Acquisitions in Europe, New
Zealand and Brazil increased the Europe, Middle East   Africa region volume growth by 1 percentage point, the Asia Pacific region volume growth by 7 percentage points and the Latin America region volume growth by 0.5 percentage points,
respectively. In aggregate, acquisitions contributed almost 2 percentage points to the reported total PepsiCo International snack volume growth rate.      Beverage volume grew 8% led by double-digit growth in the Middle East, China and Pakistan, partially offset by a low-single-digit decline in Mexico and a high-single-digit decline in Thailand. Additionally, Russia and
Brazil grew at double-digit rates. The Europe, Middle East   Africa region grew 11%, the Asia Pacific region grew 8% and the Latin America region grew 4%. The acquisition of a business in Europe increased the Europe, Middle East  
Africa region volume growth by 1 percentage point and the total PepsiCo International beverage volume growth by nearly 1 percentage point. CSDs grew at a high-single-digit rate while non-carbonated beverages grew at a double-digit rate.   
  Net revenue grew 22% reflecting the volume growth and favorable effective net pricing. Foreign currency contributed 6 percentage points of growth
primarily reflecting the favorable euro, British pound and Brazilian real. The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures also contributed 6 percentage points to net revenue growth.      Operating profit grew 15% driven largely by the volume growth and favorable effective net pricing, partially offset by increased raw material costs. Foreign currency contributed 5 percentage
points of growth primarily reflecting the favorable British pound, euro and Brazilian real. The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures on operating profit was minimal. The impact of restructuring actions taken in the fourth quarter to reduce
costs in our operations, rationalize capacity and realign our organizational structure reduced operating profit growth by 3 percentage points.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

   2006      International snacks volume grew 9% reflecting double-digit growth in Russia, Turkey, Egypt and India and single-digit growth at Sabritas in Mexico. Overall, the Europe, Middle East   Africa region grew 17%, the Latin America
region grew 2.5% and the Asia Pacific region grew 12%. Acquisitions of two businesses in Europe in 2006 increased the Europe, Middle East   Africa region volume growth by nearly 6 percentage points. The acquisition of a business in
Australia increased the Asia Pacific region volume growth by 1 percentage point. In aggregate, acquisitions contributed 2 percentage points to the reported total PepsiCo International snack volume growth rate. The absence of the prior year s
additional week reduced the growth rate by 1 percentage point.      Beverage volume grew 9% reflecting broad-based increases led by
double-digit growth in the Middle East, China, Argentina, Russia and Venezuela. The Europe, Middle East   Africa region grew 11%, the Asia Pacific region grew 9% and the Latin America region grew 7%. Acquisitions contributed 1 percentage
point to the Europe, Middle East   Africa region volume growth rate and contributed slightly to the reported total PepsiCo International beverage volume growth rate. CSDs grew at a high-single-digit rate while non-carbonated beverages grew
at a double-digit rate.      Net revenue grew 14% primarily as a result of the broad-based volume growth and favorable effective net pricing.
The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures contributed nearly 3 percentage points to net revenue growth. Foreign currency contributed 1 percentage point of growth. The absence of the prior year s additional week reduced net revenue growth
by 1 percentage point.      Operating profit grew 21% driven primarily by the net revenue growth, partially offset by increased raw material
and energy costs. The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures contributed 1 percentage point of growth. Foreign currency also contributed 1 percentage point of growth. The absence of the prior year s additional week, which reduced the
operating profit growth rate by 1 percentage point, was fully offset by the impact of charges taken in 2005 to reduce costs in our operations and rationalize capacity.       Quaker Foods North America        
    2007      Net revenue increased 5% and volume increased 2%. The volume increase reflects mid-single-digit growth in Oatmeal and Life cereal, as well as low-single-digit growth in Cap n Crunch cereal. These increases were
partially offset by a double-digit decline in  
       
   53   

Table of Contents  

Rice-A-Roni. The increase in net revenue primarily reflects price increases taken earlier in the year, as well as the volume growth. Favorable Canadian
exchange rates contributed nearly 1 percentage point to net revenue growth.      Operating profit increased 2.5% primarily reflecting the net
revenue growth partially offset by increased raw material costs.      Smart Spot eligible products represented over half of net revenue and
experienced mid-single-digit net revenue growth. The balance of the portfolio also grew in the mid-single-digit range.      2006      Net revenue grew 3% and volume increased 1%. The volume increase reflects mid-single-digit growth in Oatmeal, high-single-digit growth in Life cereal and
low-single-digit growth in Cap n Crunch cereal. These increases were partially offset by a low-single-digit decline in Aunt Jemima syrup and mix and a mid-single-digit decline in Rice-A-Roni. Net revenue growth was also driven by favorable
effective net pricing, which contributed almost 2 percentage points to net revenue growth, and favorable Canadian foreign exchange rates which contributed almost 1 percentage point. The absence of the prior year s additional week reduced both
net revenue and volume growth by approximately 2 percentage points.      Operating profit increased 3% primarily reflecting the net revenue
growth. Increased cost of sales, primarily driven by higher raw material and energy costs, were largely offset by lower advertising and marketing expenses. The absence of the prior year s additional week reduced operating profit growth by
approximately 2 percentage points.      Smart Spot eligible products represented approximately 55% of net revenue and had mid-single-digit net
revenue growth. The balance of the portfolio experienced a low-single-digit decline. The absence of the prior year s additional week negatively impacted these results.       Our Liquidity and Capital Resources       Our strong cash-generating capability and
financial condition give us ready access to capital markets throughout the world. Our principal source of liquidity is our operating cash flow. This cash-generating capability is one of our fundamental strengths and provides us with substantial
financial flexibility in meeting operating, investing and financing needs. In addition, we have revolving credit facilities that are further discussed in
 Note 9 . Our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality. Working capital needs are impacted by weekly sales, which are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and
holiday-related sales patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

     Operating Activities        In 2007, our operations provided $6.9 billion of cash, compared to $6.1 billion in the prior year, primarily reflecting our solid business results. Our operating cash flow in 2006 also reflects a
tax payment of $420 million related to our repatriation of international cash in connection with the AJCA.        Investing Activities
       In 2007, we used $3.7 billion for our investing activities primarily reflecting capital spending of $2.4 billion and acquisitions
of $1.3 billion. Acquisitions primarily included the remaining interest in a snacks joint venture in Latin America, Naked Juice Company and Bluebird Foods, and the acquisition of a minority interest in a juice company in the Ukraine through a joint
venture with PAS. Proceeds from our sale of PBG stock of $315 million were offset by net purchases of short-term investments of $383 million. In 2006, capital spending of $2.1 billion and acquisitions of $522 million were mostly offset by net sales
of short-term investments of $2.0 billion and proceeds from our sale of PBG stock of $318 million.      We anticipate net capital spending of
approximately $2.7 billion in 2008, which is expected to be within our net capital spending target of approximately 5% to 7% of net revenue. Planned capital spending in 2008 includes investments to increase capacity in our snack and beverage
businesses to support growth in developing and emerging markets, investments in North America to support growth in key trademarks, and investments in our ongoing business transformation initiative. New capital projects are evaluated on a
case-by-case basis and must meet certain payback and internal rate of return targets.        Financing Activities        In 2007, we used $4.0 billion for our financing activities, primarily reflecting the return of operating cash flow to our shareholders through common
share repurchases of $4.3 billion and dividend payments of $2.2 billion, as well as net repayments of short-term borrowings of $395 million. The use of cash was partially offset by stock option proceeds of $1.1 billion and net proceeds from
issuances of long-term debt of $1.6 billion. In 2006, we used $6.0 billion for our financing activities, primarily reflecting the return of operating cash flow to our shareholders through common share repurchases of $3.0 billion and dividend
payments of $1.9 billion. Net repayments of short-term borrowings of $2.3 billion were partially offset by stock option proceeds of $1.2 billion.      We annually review our capital structure with our Board, including our dividend policy and share repurchase activity. In the second quarter of 2007, our Board of Directors approved an increase in our targeted dividend payout rate from 45%
to 50% of prior year s earnings, excluding certain items. The Board of Directors also authorized stock repurchases of up to an additional $8 billion through June 30, 2010, once the current share repurchase authorization is complete. The
current $8.5 billion authorization began in 2006 and has approximately $3.1 billion remaining. We have historically repurchased  
       
   55   

Table of Contents  

significantly more shares each year than we have issued under our stock-based compensation plans, with average net annual repurchases of 1.4% of outstanding
shares for the last five years.        Management Operating Cash Flow        We focus on management operating cash flow as a key element in achieving maximum shareholder value, and it is the primary measure we use to monitor cash flow performance. However, it is not a
measure provided by accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use
of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating activities. The table below reconciles the net cash provided by operating activities, as reflected in our cash flow statement,
to our management operating cash flow.       
    Management operating cash flow was used primarily to repurchase shares and pay dividends. We
expect to continue to return approximately all of our management operating cash flow to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. However, see  
 Risk Factors   in Item 1A. and  
 Our Business Risks   for certain factors that may impact our operating cash flows.        Credit Ratings
       Our debt ratings of Aa2 from Moody s and A+ from Standard   Poor s contribute to our ability to access global
capital markets. We have maintained strong investment grade ratings for over a decade. Each rating is considered strong investment grade and is in the first quartile of their respective ranking systems. These ratings also reflect the impact of our
anchor bottlers  cash flows and debt.        Credit Facilities and Long-Term Contractual Commitments        See
 Note 9  for a description of our credit facilities and long-term contractual commitments.        Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements        It is not our business practice to enter into off-balance-sheet arrangements, other
than in the normal course of business. However, certain guarantees were necessary to facilitate the separation of our bottling and restaurant operations from us. At year-end 2007, we believe it is remote that these guarantees would require any cash
payment. We do not  
       
   56   

Table of Contents  

enter into off-balance-sheet transactions specifically structured to provide income or tax benefits or to avoid recognizing or disclosing assets or
liabilities. See
 Note 9  for a description of our off-balance-sheet arrangements.         
   57   

Table of Contents  

    OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS        Consolidated Statement of Income       PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries      Fiscal years ended December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005       
    See accompanying
 notes to consolidated financial statements .         
   58   

Table of Contents  

    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows       PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries      Fiscal years ended December 29,
2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005       
    (Continued on following page)         
   59   

Table of Contents  

    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (continued)       PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries      Fiscal years
ended December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005       
    See accompanying
 notes to consolidated financial statements .         
   60   

Table of Contents  

    Consolidated Balance Sheet       PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries      December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006
      
    See accompanying
 notes to consolidated financial statements .         
   61   

Table of Contents  

    Consolidated Statement of Common Shareholders  Equity       PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries      Fiscal years
ended December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005       
    (a) Includes total tax benefits of $216 million in 2007, $130 million in 2006 and $125 million in
2005.      See accompanying
 notes to consolidated financial statements .         
   62   

Table of Contents  

Notes to
  Consolidated
  Financial
  Statement
  s        
  Note 1   Basis of
  Presentation and Our Divisions         Basis of Presentation        Our financial statements include the consolidated accounts of PepsiCo, Inc. and the affiliates that we control. In addition, we include our share of the
results of certain other affiliates based on our economic ownership interest. We do not control these other affiliates, as our ownership in these other affiliates is generally less than 50%. Our share of the net income of our anchor bottlers is
reported in our income statement as bottling equity income. Bottling equity income also includes any changes in our ownership interests of these affiliates. Bottling equity income includes $174 million, $186 million and $126 million of pre-tax gains
on our sales of PBG stock in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. See Note 8 for additional information on our significant noncontrolled bottling affiliates. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. In 2005, we had an additional week of
results (53  rd    week). Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December, resulting in an additional week of results every five or six years.
      Beginning in the first quarter of 2007, income for certain non-consolidated international bottling interests was reclassified from
bottling equity income and corporate unallocated results to PI s division operating results, to be consistent with PepsiCo s internal management accountability. Prior period amounts have been adjusted to reflect this reclassification.
     Raw materials, direct labor and plant overhead, as well as purchasing and receiving costs, costs directly related to production planning,
inspection costs and raw material handling facilities, are included in cost of sales. The costs of moving, storing and delivering finished product are included in selling, general and administrative expenses.      The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and
assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Estimates are used in determining, among other items, sales incentives accruals, tax reserves, stock-based
compensation, pension and retiree medical accruals, useful lives for intangible assets, and future cash flows associated with impairment testing for perpetual brands, goodwill and other long-lived assets. Actual results could differ from these
estimates.      See  Our Divisions  below and for additional unaudited information on items affecting the comparability of our
consolidated results, see  Items Affecting Comparability  in Management s Discussion and Analysis.      Tabular dollars are in
millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts reflect common per share amounts, assume dilution unless noted, and are based on unrounded amounts. Certain reclassifications were made to prior years  amounts to conform to the 2007
presentation.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

     Our Divisions        We manufacture or use contract manufacturers, market and sell a variety of salty, sweet and grain-based snacks, carbonated and non-carbonated beverages, and foods through our North American and international business
divisions. Our North American divisions include the U.S. and Canada. Division results are based on how our Chief Executive Officer assesses the performance of and allocates resources to our divisions. For additional unaudited information on our
divisions, see  Our Operations  in Management s Discussion and Analysis. The accounting policies for the divisions are the same as those described in Note 2, except for the following certain allocation methodologies:       

stock-based compensation expense,          

pension and retiree medical expense, and          

derivatives.          Stock-Based
Compensation Expense       Our divisions are held accountable for stock-based compensation expense and, therefore, this expense is allocated
to our divisions as an incremental employee compensation cost. The allocation of stock-based compensation expense in 2007 was approximately 29% to FLNA, 17% to PBNA, 34% to PI, 4% to QFNA and 16% to corporate unallocated expenses. We had similar
allocations of stock-based compensation expense to our divisions in 2006 and 2005. The expense allocated to our divisions excludes any impact of changes in our Black-Scholes assumptions during the year which reflect market conditions over which
division management has no control. Therefore, any variances between allocated expense and our actual expense are recognized in corporate unallocated expenses.       Pension and Retiree Medical Expense       Pension and retiree medical service costs measured at a fixed
discount rate, as well as amortization of gains and losses due to demographics, including salary experience, are reflected in division results for North American employees. Division results also include interest costs, measured at a fixed discount
rate, for retiree medical plans. Interest costs for the pension plans, pension asset returns and the impact of pension funding, and gains and losses other than those due to demographics, are all reflected in corporate unallocated expenses. In
addition, corporate unallocated expenses include the difference between the service costs measured at a fixed discount rate (included in division results as noted above) and the total service costs determined using the Plans  discount rates as
disclosed in Note 7.       Derivatives       Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005, we began centrally managing commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. Certain of the commodity derivatives, primarily those related to the purchase of energy for use by
our divisions, do not qualify for hedge  
       
   64   

Table of Contents  

accounting treatment. These derivatives hedge underlying commodity price risk and were not entered into for speculative purposes. Such derivatives are marked
to market with the resulting gains and losses recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected in division results when the divisions take delivery of the underlying commodity. Therefore, division
results reflect the contract purchase price of the energy or other commodities.      In the second quarter of 2007, we expanded our commodity
hedging program to include derivative contracts used to mitigate our exposure to price changes associated with our purchases of fruit. Similar to our energy contracts, these contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and are marked to
market with the resulting gains and losses recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. These gains and losses are then subsequently reflected in divisional results.       New Organizational Structure       In the fourth quarter of 2007, we announced a strategic realignment of
our organizational structure. For additional unaudited information on our new organizational structure, see  Our Operations  in Management s Discussion and Analysis. In the first quarter of 2008, our historical segment reporting will
be restated to reflect the new structure. The segment amounts and discussions reflected in this Form 10-K reflect the management reporting that existed through fiscal year-end 2007.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

Corporate        Corporate includes costs of our corporate headquarters, centrally managed initiatives, such as our ongoing business transformation initiative in North America, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, foreign
exchange transaction gains and losses, and certain commodity derivative gains and losses, as well as profit-in-inventory elimination adjustments for our noncontrolled bottling affiliates and certain other items.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

     Other Division Information         

(a)   
    Corporate assets consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and property, plant and equipment.        

67   

Table of Contents  

(a)   
    Represents net revenue from businesses operating in these countries.          

(b)   
    Long-lived assets represent property, plant and equipment, nonamortizable intangible assets, amortizable intangible assets, and investments in noncontrolled
affiliates. These assets are reported in the country where they are primarily used.          Note 2   Our Significant
Accounting Policies         Revenue Recognition        We recognize revenue upon shipment or delivery to our customers based on written sales terms that do not allow for a right of return. However, our policy for DSD and chilled products is to remove and replace damaged
and out-of-date products from store shelves to ensure that our consumers receive the product quality and freshness that they expect. Similarly, our policy for warehouse-distributed products is to replace damaged and out-of-date products. Based on
our historical experience with this practice, we have reserved for anticipated damaged and out-of-date products. For additional unaudited information on our revenue recognition and related policies, including our policy on bad debts, see  Our
Critical Accounting Policies  in Management s Discussion and Analysis. We are exposed to concentration of credit risk by our customers, Wal-Mart and PBG. In 2007, Wal-Mart (including Sam s) represented approximately 12% of our total
net revenue, including concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to Wal-Mart; and PBG represented approximately 9%. We have not experienced credit issues with these customers.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

     Sales Incentives and Other Marketplace Spending        We offer sales incentives and discounts through various programs to our customers and consumers. Sales incentives and discounts are accounted for as a
reduction of revenue and totaled $11.3 billion in 2007, $10.1 billion in 2006 and $8.9 billion in 2005. While most of these incentive arrangements have terms of no more than one year, certain arrangements, such as fountain pouring rights, extend
beyond one year. Costs incurred to obtain these arrangements are recognized over the shorter of the economic or contractual life, as a reduction of revenue, and the remaining balances of $287 million at December 29, 2007 and $297 million at
December 30, 2006 are included in current assets and other assets on our balance sheet. For additional unaudited information on our sales incentives, see  Our Critical Accounting Policies  in Management s Discussion and Analysis.
     Other marketplace spending, which includes the costs of advertising and other marketing activities, totaled $2.9 billion in 2007, $2.7
billion in 2006 and $2.8 billion in 2005 and is reported as selling, general and administrative expenses. Included in these amounts were advertising expenses of $1.9 billion in 2007, $1.7 billion in 2006 and $1.8 billion in 2005. Deferred
advertising costs are not expensed until the year first used and consist of:       

media and personal service prepayments,          

promotional materials in inventory, and          

production costs of future media advertising.         Deferred advertising costs of $160 million and $171 million at year-end 2007 and 2006, respectively, are classified as prepaid expenses on our balance sheet.        Distribution Costs        Distribution costs, including the costs of shipping
and handling activities, are reported as selling, general and administrative expenses. Shipping and handling expenses were $5.1 billion in 2007, $4.6 billion in 2006 and $4.1 billion in 2005.        Cash Equivalents        Cash equivalents are investments with original
maturities of three months or less which we do not intend to rollover beyond three months.        Software Costs        We capitalize certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer software for internal
use when both the preliminary project stage is completed and it is probable that the software will be used as intended. Capitalized software costs include only (i) external direct costs of materials and services utilized in developing or
obtaining computer software, (ii) compensation and related benefits for employees who are directly associated with the software project and (iii) interest costs incurred while developing internal-use computer software. Capitalized software
costs are included in property, plant and equipment on our balance sheet and  
       
   69   

Table of Contents  

amortized on a straight-line basis when placed into service over the estimated useful lives of the software, which approximate five to seven years. Net
capitalized software and development costs were $652 million at December 29, 2007 and $537 million at December 30, 2006.        Commitments and Contingencies        We are subject to various claims and contingencies related to lawsuits, taxes and
environmental matters, as well as commitments under contractual and other commercial obligations. We recognize liabilities for contingencies and commitments when a loss is probable and estimable. For additional information on our commitments, see
Note 9.        Research and Development        We engage in a variety of research and development activities. These activities principally involve the development of new products, improvement in the quality of existing products, improvement and modernization of
production processes, and the development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines. Consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other
marketing costs. Research and development costs were $364 million in 2007, $282 million in 2006 and $280 million in 2005 and are reported as selling, general and administrative expenses.        Other Significant Accounting Policies        Our other significant accounting policies are disclosed as follows:       

Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets    Note 4, and for additional unaudited information on brands and goodwill, see  Our Critical
Accounting Policies  in Management s Discussion and Analysis.          

Income Taxes    Note 5, and for additional unaudited information, see  Our Critical Accounting Policies  in Management s Discussion and
Analysis.          

Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans    Note 7, and for additional unaudited information, see  Our Critical Accounting Policies  in
Management s Discussion and Analysis.          

Risk Management    Note 10, and for additional unaudited information, see  Our Business Risks  in Management s Discussion and Analysis.
          Recent Accounting Pronouncements        In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB 108 to address diversity in practice in quantifying financial statement misstatements. SAB 108 requires that we quantify misstatements based on their impact
on each of our financial statements and related disclosures. On December 30, 2006, we adopted SAB 108. Our adoption of SAB 108 did not impact our financial statements.         
   70   

Table of Contents  

   In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157 which defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The provisions of SFAS 157 are effective as of the beginning of our 2008 fiscal year. However, the FASB has deferred the effective date of SFAS 157, until the beginning of
our 2009 fiscal year, as it relates to fair value measurement requirements for nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are not remeasured at fair value on a recurring basis. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS 157 on our
financial statements. We do not expect our adoption to have a material impact on our financial statements.      In February 2007, the FASB
issued SFAS 159 which permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. The provisions of SFAS 159 are effective as of the beginning of our 2008 fiscal year. Our adoption of SFAS 159 will not
impact our financial statements.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141R and SFAS 160 to improve, simplify, and converge
internationally the accounting for business combinations and the reporting of noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The provisions of SFAS 141R and SFAS 160 are effective as of the beginning of our 2009 fiscal year. We are
currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS 141R and SFAS 160 on our financial statements.       
  Note 3   Restructuring and Impairment Charges         2007 Restructuring and Impairment Charge   
     In 2007, we incurred a charge of $102 million ($70 million after-tax or $0.04 per share) in conjunction with restructuring actions
primarily to close certain plants and rationalize other production lines across FLNA, PBNA and PI. The charge was comprised of $57 million of asset impairments, $33 million of severance and other employee-related costs and $12 million of other costs
and was recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in our income statement. Employee-related costs primarily reflect the termination costs for approximately 1,100 employees. Substantially all cash payments related to this charge are
expected to be paid by the end of 2008.      A summary of the restructuring and impairment charge by division is as follows:       
       
   71   

Table of Contents  

     2006 Restructuring and Impairment Charge        In 2006, we incurred a charge of $67 million ($43 million after-tax or $0.03 per share) in conjunction with consolidating the manufacturing network at
FLNA by closing two plants in the U.S., and rationalizing other assets, to increase manufacturing productivity and supply chain efficiencies. The charge was comprised of $43 million of asset impairments, $14 million of severance and other
employee-related costs and $10 million of other costs. Employee-related costs primarily reflect the termination costs for approximately 380 employees. All cash payments related to this charge were paid by the end of 2007.        2005 Restructuring Charge        In
2005, we incurred a charge of $83 million ($55 million after-tax or $0.03 per share) in conjunction with actions taken to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions. Of this charge, $34 million related to FLNA, $21
million to PBNA, $16 million to PI and $12 million to Corporate. Most of this charge related to the termination of approximately 700 employees. As of December 30, 2006, all terminations had occurred, and as of December 29, 2007, no accrual
remains.       Note 4   Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets        
    Property, plant and equipment is recorded at historical cost. Depreciation and amortization are
recognized on a straight-line basis over an asset s estimated useful life. Land is not depreciated and construction in progress is not depreciated until ready for service. Amortization of intangible assets for each of the next five years, based
on average 2007 foreign exchange rates, is expected to be $62 million in 2008, $60 million in 2009, $60 million in 2010, $59 million in 2011 and $59 million in 2012.         
   72   

Table of Contents  

   Depreciable and amortizable assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the
operating or macroeconomic environment. In these circumstances, if an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on discounted future cash flows. Useful lives
are periodically evaluated to determine whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate the need for revision. For additional unaudited information on our amortizable brand policies, see  Our Critical Accounting Policies  in
Management s Discussion and Analysis.        Nonamortizable Intangible Assets        Perpetual brands and goodwill are assessed for impairment at least annually. If the carrying amount of a perpetual brand exceeds its fair value, as
determined by its discounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. No impairment charges resulted from the required impairment evaluations. The change in the book value of nonamortizable intangible assets is
as follows:       
       
   73   

Table of Contents  

Note 5   Income Taxes        
       
   74   

Table of Contents  

For additional unaudited information on our income tax policies, including our reserves for income
taxes, see  
 Our Critical Accounting Policies   in Management s Discussion and Analysis.      In 2007, we recognized
$129 million of non-cash tax benefits related to the favorable resolution of certain foreign tax matters. In 2006, we recognized non-cash tax benefits of $602 million, substantially all of which related to the IRS s examination of our
consolidated income tax returns for the years 1998 through 2002. In 2005, we repatriated approximately $7.5 billion in earnings previously considered indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. and recorded income tax expense of $460 million related to
the AJCA. The AJCA created a one-time incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed international earnings by providing an 85% dividends received deduction.        Reserves        A number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for which we have
established a reserve, is audited and finally resolved. The number of years with open tax audits varies depending on the tax jurisdiction. Our major taxing jurisdictions and the related open tax audits are as follows:       

the U.S.   in 2006, the IRS issued a Revenue Agent s Report (RAR) related to the years 1998 through 2002. We are in agreement with their conclusion,
except for one matter which we continue to dispute. We made the appropriate cash payment during 2006 to settle the agreed-upon issues, and we do not anticipate the resolution of the open matter will significantly impact our financial statements. In
2007, the IRS initiated their audit of our U.S. tax returns for the years 2003 through 2005;          

the United Kingdom   audits have been completed for all taxable years prior to 2004; and            
   75   

Table of Contents  

Canada   audits have been completed for all taxable years through 2004. We are disputing some of the adjustments for the years 1999 through 2004. We do not
anticipate the resolution of the 1999 through 2004 tax years will significantly impact our financial statements. The Canadian tax return for 2005 is currently under audit and no adjustments are expected to significantly impact our financial
statements.         While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax
matter, we believe that our reserves reflect the probable outcome of known tax contingencies. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and circumstances. Settlement of any particular issue would usually
require the use of cash. Favorable resolution would be recognized as a reduction to our annual tax rate in the year of resolution.      For
further unaudited information on the impact of the resolution of open tax issues, see  
 Other Consolidated Results .       In 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48, which clarifies the accounting for
uncertainty in tax positions. FIN 48 requires that we recognize in our financial statements the impact of a tax position, if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. We adopted
the provisions of FIN 48 as of the beginning of our 2007 fiscal year. As a result of our adoption of FIN 48, we recognized a $7 million decrease to reserves for income taxes, with a corresponding increase to opening retained earnings.      As of December 29, 2007, the total gross amount of reserves for income taxes, reported in other liabilities, was $1.5 billion. Of that amount, $1.4
billion, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. Any prospective adjustments to our reserves for income taxes will be recorded as an increase or decrease to our provision for income taxes and would impact our effective tax rate. In
addition, we accrue interest related to reserves for income taxes in our provision for income taxes and any associated penalties are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. The gross amount of interest accrued, reported in other
liabilities, was $338 million as of December 29, 2007, of which $34 million was recognized in 2007.         
   76   

Table of Contents  

   A rollforward of our reserves in 2007 for all federal, state and foreign tax jurisdictions, is as
follows:       

Balance, beginning of year   
      
  $  
  1,435  

FIN 48 adoption adjustment to retained earnings   

(7  
  )   
 
    Reclassification of deductible state tax and interest benefits to other balance sheet accounts   

(144  
  )   

Adjusted balance, beginning of year   

1,284  

Additions for tax positions related to the current year   

264  

Additions for tax positions from prior years   

151  

Reductions for tax positions from prior years   

(73  
  )   
 
    Settlement payments   

(174  
  )   
 
    Statute of limitations expiration   

(7  
  )   
 
    Currency translation adjustment   

16  

Balance, end of year   
      
  $  
  1,461  

Carryforwards and Allowances        Operating loss carryforwards totaling $7.1 billion at year-end 2007 are being carried forward in a number of foreign and state jurisdictions where we are permitted to use tax operating losses
from prior periods to reduce future taxable income. These operating losses will expire as follows: $0.5 billion in 2008, $5.6 billion between 2009 and 2027 and $1.0 billion may be carried forward indefinitely. We establish valuation allowances for
our deferred tax assets if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.        Undistributed International Earnings        At December 29, 2007, we had approximately $14.7
billion of undistributed international earnings. We intend to continue to reinvest earnings outside the U.S. for the foreseeable future and, therefore, have not recognized any U.S. tax expense on these earnings.        Mexico Tax Legislation        In
October 2007, Mexico enacted new tax legislation effective January 1, 2008. The deferred tax impact was not material and is reflected in our effective tax rate in 2007.       Note 6   Stock-Based Compensation       Our stock-based compensation program is
a broad-based program designed to attract and retain employees while also aligning employees  interests with the interests of our shareholders. A majority of our employees participate in our stock-based compensation program, which includes our
broad-based SharePower program established in 1989 to grant an annual award of stock options to all eligible employees, based on job level or classification and, in the case of international employees, tenure as well. In addition, members of our
Board of Directors participate in our stock-based compensation program in connection with their service on our Board. Beginning in 2007, members of our Board  
       
   77   

Table of Contents  

of Directors no longer receive stock-based compensation grants. Stock options and restricted stock units (RSU) are granted to employees under the
shareholder-approved 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), our only active stock-based plan. Stock-based compensation expense was $260 million in 2007, $270 million in 2006 and $311 million in 2005. Related income tax benefits recognized in earnings
were $77 million in 2007, $80 million in 2006 and $87 million in 2005. Stock-based compensation cost capitalized in connection with our ongoing business transformation initiative was $3 million in 2007, $3 million in 2006, and $4 million in 2005. At
year-end 2007, 67 million shares were available for future stock-based compensation grants.        Method of Accounting and Our
Assumptions        We account for our employee stock options, which include grants under our executive program and broad-based SharePower
program, under the fair value method of accounting using a Black-Scholes valuation model to measure stock option expense at the date of grant. All stock option grants have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the
date of grant and generally have a 10-year term. The fair value of stock option grants is amortized to expense over the vesting period, generally three years. Executives who are awarded long-term incentives based on their performance are offered the
choice of stock options or RSUs. Executives who elect RSUs receive one RSU for every four stock options that would have otherwise been granted. Senior officers do not have a choice and are granted 50% stock options and 50% RSUs. RSU expense is based
on the fair value of PepsiCo stock on the date of grant and is amortized over the vesting period, generally three years. Each RSU is settled in a share of our stock after the vesting period. Vesting of RSU awards for senior officers is contingent
upon the achievement of pre-established performance targets. There have been no reductions to the exercise price of previously issued awards, and any repricing of awards would require approval of our shareholders.      On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R under the modified prospective method. Since we had previously accounted for our stock-based compensation
plans under the fair value provisions of SFAS 123, our adoption did not significantly impact our financial position or our results of operations. Under SFAS 123R, actual tax benefits recognized in excess of tax benefits previously established upon
grant are reported as a financing cash inflow. Prior to adoption, such excess tax benefits were reported as an operating cash inflow.      Our
weighted-average Black-Scholes fair value assumptions are as follows:       
    The expected life is the period over which our employee groups are expected to hold their options.
It is based on our historical experience with similar grants. The risk free interest rate is based on the expected U.S. Treasury rate over the expected life. Volatility reflects  
       
   78   

Table of Contents  

movements in our stock price over the most recent historical period equivalent to the expected life. Dividend yield is estimated over the expected life based
on our stated dividend policy and forecasts of net income, share repurchases and stock price.      A summary of our stock-based compensation
activity for the year ended December 29, 2007 is presented below:        Our Stock Option Activity         

(a)   
    Options are in thousands and include options previously granted under Quaker plans. No additional options or shares may be granted under the Quaker plans.

(b)   
    Weighted-average exercise price.          

(c)   
    Weighted-average contractual life remaining.          

(d)   
    In thousands.           Our RSU
Activity         

(a)   
    RSUs are in thousands.          

(b)   
    Weighted-average intrinsic value at grant date.          

(c)   
    Weighted-average contractual life remaining.          

(d)   
    In thousands.            
   79   

Table of Contents  

     Other Stock-Based Compensation Data         

(a)   
    In thousands.         At
December 29, 2007, there was $287 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation grants. This unrecognized compensation is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.5 years.
      Note 7   Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans       Our pension plans cover full-time employees in the U.S. and certain international employees. Benefits are determined based on either years of service or a combination of years of service and
earnings. U.S. and Canada retirees are also eligible for medical and life insurance benefits (retiree medical) if they meet age and service requirements. Generally, our share of retiree medical costs is capped at specified dollar amounts, which vary
based upon years of service, with retirees contributing the remainder of the costs.      Other gains and losses resulting from actual
experience differing from our assumptions and from changes in our assumptions are also determined at each measurement date. If this net accumulated gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of plan assets or liabilities, a portion of the net gain or
loss is included in expense for the following year. The cost or benefit of plan changes that increase or decrease benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost/(credit)) is included in earnings on a straight-line basis over the average
remaining service period of active plan participants, which is approximately 11 years for pension expense and approximately 13 years for retiree medical expense.      On December 30, 2006, we adopted SFAS 158. In connection with our adoption, we recognized the funded status of our Plans on our balance sheet as of December 30, 2006 with subsequent changes in the funded
status recognized in comprehensive income in the years in which they occur. In accordance with SFAS 158, amounts prior to the year of adoption have not been adjusted. SFAS 158 also requires that, no later than 2008, our assumptions used to measure
our annual pension and retiree medical expense be determined as of the balance sheet date, and all plan assets and liabilities be reported as of that date. Accordingly, as of the beginning of our 2008 fiscal year, we will change the measurement date
for our annual pension and retiree medical expense and all plan assets  
       
   80   

Table of Contents  

and liabilities from September 30 to our year-end balance sheet date.   As a result of this change in measurement date, we will record an after-tax
$7 million reduction to 2008 opening shareholders  equity which will be reflected in our 2008 first quarter Form 10-Q.      Selected
financial information for our pension and retiree medical plans is as follows:       
       
   81   

Table of Contents  

Components of benefit expense are as follows:       
    The estimated amounts to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into benefit
expense in 2008 for our pension and retiree medical plans are as follows:       
       
   82   

Table of Contents  

   The following table provides the weighted-average assumptions used to determine projected benefit
liability and benefit expense for our pension and retiree medical plans:       
    The following table provides selected information about plans with liability for service to date
and total benefit liability in excess of plan assets:       
    Of the total projected pension benefit liability at year-end 2007, $658 million relates to plans
that we do not fund because the funding of such plans does not receive favorable tax treatment.        Future Benefit Payments and Funding
       Our estimated future benefit payments are as follows:       

(a)   
    Expected future benefit payments for our retiree medical plans do not reflect any estimated subsidies expected to be received under the 2003 Medicare Act.
Subsidies are expected to be approximately $10 million for each of the years from 2008 through 2012 and approximately $70 million in total for 2013 through 2017.         These future benefits to beneficiaries include payments from both funded and unfunded pension plans.      In 2008, we expect to make pension contributions of up to $150 million, with up to $75 million expected to be discretionary. Our cash payments for retiree medical are estimated to be approximately $85 million in 2008.
        
   83   

Table of Contents  

     Pension Assets        Our pension plan investment strategy is reviewed annually and is established based upon plan liabilities, an evaluation of market conditions, tolerance for risk, and cash requirements for benefit
payments. Our investment objective is to ensure that funds are available to meet the plans  benefit obligations when they are due. Our overall investment strategy is to prudently invest plan assets in high-quality and diversified equity and
debt securities to achieve our long-term return expectation. As part of our investment strategy, we employ certain equity strategies which, in addition to investing in U.S. and international common and preferred stock, include investing in certain
equity- and debt-based securities used collectively to generate returns in excess of certain equity-based indices. Debt-based securities represent approximately a third of our equity strategy portfolio as of year-end 2007 and 2006. Our investment
policy also permits the use of derivative instruments to enhance the overall return of the portfolio. Our expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is 7.8%, reflecting estimated long-term rates of return of 9.3% from our equity
strategies, and 5.8% from our fixed income strategies. Our target investment allocation is 60% for equity strategies and 40% for fixed income strategies. Our actual pension plan asset allocations, consistent with our investment approach and with how
we view and manage our overall investment portfolio, for the plan years 2007 and 2006, are as follows:       
    The expected return on pension plan assets is based on our historical experience, our pension plan
investment strategy and our expectations for long-term rates of return. We use a market-related valuation method for recognizing investment gains or losses. For this purpose, investment gains or losses are the difference between the expected and
actual return based on the market-related value of assets. This market-related valuation method recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur, which has the effect of reducing year-to-year
volatility. Pension expense in future periods will be impacted as gains or losses are recognized in the market-related value of assets over the five-year period.      Pension assets include 5.5 million shares of PepsiCo common stock with a market value of $401 million in 2007, and 5.5 million shares with a market value of $358 million in 2006. Our investment policy limits
the investment in PepsiCo stock at the time of investment to 10% of the fair value of plan assets.      As of December 29, 2007,
approximately 3%, or approximately $165 million, of securities in the investment portfolio of our U.S. pension plans are subprime mortgage holdings. We do not believe that the ultimate realization of such investments will result in a material impact
to future pension expense, future contributions or the funded status of our plans.         
   84   

Table of Contents  

     Retiree Medical Cost Trend Rates        An average increase of 8.5% in the cost of covered retiree medical benefits is assumed for 2008. This average increase is then projected to decline gradually to 5% in 2014 and thereafter. These
assumed health care cost trend rates have an impact on the retiree medical plan expense and liability. However, the cap on our share of retiree medical costs limits the impact. A 1-percentage-point change in the assumed health care trend rate would
have the following effects:       
      Savings Plan        Our U.S. employees are eligible to participate in 401(k) savings plans, which are voluntary defined contribution plans. The plans are designed to help employees accumulate additional savings for
retirement. We make matching contributions on a portion of eligible pay based on years of service. In 2007 and 2006, our matching contributions were $62 million and $56 million, respectively.      For additional unaudited information on our pension and retiree medical plans and related accounting policies and assumptions, see  Our Critical Accounting Policies  in
Management s Discussion and Analysis.       
  Note 8  
  Noncontrolled Bottling Affiliates       Our most significant noncontrolled bottling affiliates are PBG and PAS.
Sales to PBG reflect approximately 9% of our total net revenue in 2007 and approximately 10% in 2006 and 2005.        The Pepsi Bottling
Group        In addition to approximately 35% and 38% of PBG s outstanding common stock that we own at year-end 2007 and 2006,
respectively, we own 100% of PBG s class B common stock and approximately 7% of the equity of Bottling Group, LLC, PBG s principal operating subsidiary. Bottling equity income includes $174 million, $186 million and $126 million of pre-tax
gains on our sales of PBG stock in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

   PBG s summarized financial information is as follows:       
    Our investment in PBG, which includes the related goodwill, was $507 million and $500 million
higher than our ownership interest in their net assets at year-end 2007 and 2006, respectively. Based upon the quoted closing price of PBG shares at year-end 2007 and 2006, the calculated market value of our shares in PBG exceeded our investment
balance, excluding our investment in Bottling Group, LLC, by approximately $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively.      Additionally, in
2007, we formed a joint venture with PBG, comprising our concentrate and PBG s bottling businesses in Russia. PBG holds a 60% majority interest in the joint venture and consolidates the entity. We account for our interest of 40% under the
equity method of accounting.         
   86   

Table of Contents  

     PepsiAmericas        At year-end 2007 and 2006, we owned approximately 44% of PAS, and their summarized financial information is as follows:       
    Our investment in PAS, which includes the related goodwill, was $303 million and $316 million
higher than our ownership interest in their net assets at year-end 2007 and 2006, respectively. Based upon the quoted closing price of PAS shares at year-end 2007 and 2006, the calculated market value of our shares in PAS exceeded our investment by
$855 million and $173 million, respectively.      Additionally, in 2007, we completed the joint purchase of Sandora, LLC with PAS. PAS holds a
60% majority interest in the joint venture and consolidates the entity. We account for our interest of 40% under the equity method of accounting.        Related Party Transactions        Our significant related party transactions include our noncontrolled bottling affiliates.
We sell concentrate to these affiliates, which they use in the production of CSDs and non-carbonated beverages. We also sell certain finished goods to these affiliates and we receive royalties for the use of our trademarks for certain products.
Sales of concentrate and finished goods are reported net of bottler funding. For further unaudited information on these bottlers, see  Our Customers  in Management s Discussion and Analysis. These transactions with our bottling
affiliates are reflected in our consolidated financial statements as follows:         
   87   

Table of Contents  

Such amounts are settled on terms consistent with other trade receivables and payables. See Note 9
regarding our guarantee of certain PBG debt.      In addition, we coordinate, on an aggregate basis, the contract negotiations of sweeteners
and other raw material requirements for certain of our bottlers. Once we have negotiated the contracts, the bottlers order and take delivery directly from the supplier and pay the suppliers directly. Consequently, these transactions are not
reflected in our consolidated financial statements. As the contracting party, we could be liable to these suppliers in the event of any nonpayment by our bottlers, but we consider this exposure to be remote.       
  Note 9  
  Debt Obligations
  and
  Commitments        
     The interest rates in the above table reflect weighted-average rates at year-end.
      In the second quarter of 2007, we issued $1 billion of senior unsecured notes maturing in 2012. We used a portion of the proceeds from
the issuance of the notes to repay existing short-term debt of $500 million, bearing interest at 3.2% per year and maturing on May 15, 2007, with the balance of the proceeds used primarily for general corporate purposes. Additionally,
in the second quarter of 2007, we extended the maturity of our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement by one year to 2012, and, in the third quarter of 2007, we increased the amount of this agreement from $1.5 billion to $2 billion. Funds
borrowed under this agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, including supporting our outstanding commercial paper issuances. This line of credit remains unused as of December 29, 2007.         
   88   

Table of Contents  

   In the third quarter of 2007, we updated our U.S. $2.5 billion euro medium term note program following
the expiration of the existing program. Under the program, we may issue unsecured notes under mutually agreed upon terms with the purchasers of the notes. Proceeds from any issuance of notes may be used for general corporate purposes, except as
otherwise specified in the related prospectus. As of December 29, 2007, we have no outstanding notes under the program.      In the fourth
quarter of 2007, we issued $1 billion of senior unsecured notes maturing in 2013. We used the proceeds from the issuance of the notes for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of outstanding short-term indebtedness.      As of December 29, 2007, we have reclassified $1.4 billion of short-term debt to long-term based on our intent and ability to refinance on a
long-term basis.      In addition, as of December 29, 2007, $806 million of our debt related to borrowings from various lines of credit is
maintained for our international divisions. These lines of credit are subject to normal banking terms and conditions and are fully committed to the extent of our borrowings.        Interest Rate Swaps        In connection with the issuance of the $1 billion
notes in the second quarter of 2007, we entered into an interest rate swap to effectively convert the interest rate from a fixed rate of 5.15% to a variable rate based on LIBOR. We previously entered into an interest rate swap in 2004 to effectively
convert the interest rate of a specific debt issuance from a fixed rate to a variable rate. This interest rate swap matured in May 2007. The terms of the swaps match the terms of the debt they modify. The notional amounts of the interest rate swaps
outstanding at December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006 were $1 billion and $500 million, respectively.      At December 29,
2007, approximately 56% of total debt, after the impact of the related interest rate swap, was exposed to variable interest rates, compared to 63% at December 30, 2006. In addition to variable rate long-term debt, all debt with maturities of
less than one year is categorized as variable for purposes of this measure.        Cross Currency Interest Rate Swaps     
  In 2004, we entered into a cross currency interest rate swap to hedge the currency exposure on U.S. dollar denominated debt of $50 million held by a
foreign affiliate. The terms of this swap match the terms of the debt it modifies. The swap matures in 2008. The unrealized loss related to this swap was approximately $8 million at December 29, 2007, resulting in a U.S. dollar liability of $58
million. The unrealized gain related to this swap was less than $1 million at December 30, 2006, resulting in a U.S. dollar liability of $50 million.      We also entered into cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the currency exposure on U.S. dollar denominated intercompany debt of $45 million at December 29, 2007 and $95  
       
   89   

Table of Contents  

million at December 30, 2006. The terms of the swaps match the terms of the debt they modify. The net unrealized losses related to these swaps was less
than $1 million at December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006. The outstanding swap matures in 2008.          Long-Term
Contractual Commitments     (a)            

(a)   
    Reflects non-cancelable commitments as of December 29, 2007 based on year-end foreign exchange rates and excludes any reserves for income taxes under FIN 48
as we are unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of settlement of our reserves for income taxes.          

(b)   
    Excludes short-term borrowings reclassified as long-term debt of $1,376 million and includes $273 million of accrued interest related to our zero coupon notes.

(c)   
    Interest payments on floating-rate debt are estimated using interest rates effective as of December 29, 2007.         Most long-term contractual commitments, except for our long-term debt obligations, are not recorded on our balance sheet. Non-cancelable operating leases
primarily represent building leases. Non-cancelable purchasing commitments are primarily for oranges and orange juice, packaging materials and cooking oil. Non-cancelable marketing commitments are primarily for sports marketing. Bottler funding is
not reflected in our long-term contractual commitments as it is negotiated on an annual basis. See Note 7 regarding our pension and retiree medical obligations and discussion below regarding our commitments to noncontrolled bottling affiliates and
former restaurant operations.        Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements        It is not our business practice to enter into off-balance-sheet arrangements, other than in the normal course of business. However, certain guarantees were necessary to facilitate the separation
of our bottling and restaurant operations from us. In connection with these transactions, we have guaranteed $2.3 billion of Bottling Group, LLC s long-term debt through 2012 and $18 million of YUM! Brands, Inc. s (YUM) outstanding
obligations, primarily property leases, through 2020. The terms of our Bottling Group, LLC debt guarantee are intended to preserve the structure of PBG s separation from us and our payment obligation would be triggered if Bottling Group, LLC
failed to perform under these debt obligations or the structure significantly changed. Our guarantees of certain obligations ensured YUM s continued use of certain properties. These guarantees would  
       
   90   

Table of Contents  

require our cash payment if YUM failed to perform under these lease obligations. See Note 8 regarding contracts related to certain of our bottlers.
     See  Our Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Management s Discussion and Analysis for further unaudited information on our
borrowings.       Note 10   Risk Management       We are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in:       

commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy,          

foreign exchange risks, and          

interest rates.         In the normal
course of business, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, including the use of derivatives. Certain derivatives are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges and qualify for hedge accounting treatment, while others do not
qualify and are marked to market through earnings. See  
 Our Business Risks   in Management s Discussion and Analysis for further unaudited information on our business risks.      For cash flow hedges, changes in fair value are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive loss within shareholders  equity until the underlying hedged item is recognized in net income. For fair value hedges,
changes in fair value are recognized immediately in earnings, consistent with the underlying hedged item. Hedging transactions are limited to an underlying exposure. As a result, any change in the value of our derivative instruments would be
substantially offset by an opposite change in the value of the underlying hedged items. Hedging ineffectiveness and a net earnings impact occur when the change in the value of the hedge does not offset the change in the value of the underlying
hedged item. If the derivative instrument is terminated, we continue to defer the related gain or loss and include it as a component of the cost of the underlying hedged item. Upon determination that the underlying hedged item will not be part of an
actual transaction, we recognize the related gain or loss in net income in that period.      We also use derivatives that do not qualify for
hedge accounting treatment. We account for such derivatives at market value with the resulting gains and losses reflected in our income statement. We do not use derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes, and we limit our exposure to
individual counterparties to manage credit risk.        Commodity Prices        We are subject to commodity price risk because our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing may be limited in the competitive environment in which we operate. This risk is
managed through the use of fixed-price purchase orders, pricing agreements, geographic diversity and derivatives. We use derivatives, with terms of no more than two years, to economically hedge price fluctuations related to a portion of our
anticipated commodity purchases, primarily for natural gas, diesel fuel and fruit. For those derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting, any ineffectiveness is recorded  
       
   91   

Table of Contents  

immediately. However, such commodity cash flow hedges have not had any significant ineffectiveness for all periods presented. We classify both the earnings
and cash flow impact from these derivatives consistent with the underlying hedged item. During the next 12 months, we expect to reclassify net gains of $1 million related to cash flow hedges from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net income.
Derivatives used to hedge commodity price risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market each period and reflected in our income statement.        Foreign Exchange        Our operations outside of the U.S. generate 44% of our net revenue, with
Mexico, the United Kingdom and Canada comprising 19% of our net revenue. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency risks. On occasion, we enter into hedges, primarily forward contracts with terms of no more than two years, to reduce the effect
of foreign exchange rates. Ineffectiveness of these hedges has not been material.        Interest Rates        We centrally manage our debt and investment portfolios considering investment opportunities and risks, tax consequences and overall financing strategies.
We may use interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps to manage our overall interest expense and foreign exchange risk. These instruments effectively change the interest rate and currency of specific debt issuances. These swaps are entered
into concurrently with the issuance of the debt that they are intended to modify. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt. These swaps are
entered into only with strong creditworthy counterparties and are settled on a net basis.         
   92   

Table of Contents  

     Fair Value        All derivative instruments are recognized on our balance sheet at fair value. The fair value of our derivative instruments is generally based on quoted market prices. Book and fair values of our derivative and
financial instruments are as follows:       
    The above items are included on our balance sheet under the captions noted or as indicated below.
In addition, derivatives qualify for hedge accounting unless otherwise noted below.       

(a)   
    Book value approximates fair value due to the short maturity.          

(b)   
    Principally short-term time deposits and includes $189 million at December 29, 2007 and $145 million at December 30, 2006 of mutual fund investments
used to manage a portion of market risk arising from our deferred compensation liability.          

(c)   
    The 2007 asset includes $20 million related to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting and the 2007 liability includes $5 million related to
derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. The 2006 liability includes $10 million related to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Assets are reported within current assets and other assets, and liabilities are reported
within current liabilities and other liabilities.          

(d)   
    The 2007 asset includes $10 million related to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting and the 2007 liability includes $7 million related to
derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. The 2006 liability includes $28 million related to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Assets are reported within current assets and other assets, and liabilities are reported
within current liabilities and other liabilities.          

(e)   
    Included in current assets and other assets.          

(f)   
    Asset included within other assets.          

(g)   
    Reported in other liabilities.         This table excludes guarantees, including our guarantee of $2.3 billion of Bottling Group, LLC s long-term debt. The guarantee had a fair value of $35 million at December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006 based on our estimate
of the cost to us of transferring the liability to an independent financial institution. See
 Note 9  for additional information on our guarantees.         
   93   

Table of Contents  

    Note 11   Net Income per Common Share       Basic net income per common share is net income available to common shareholders divided by the weighted average of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per common
share is calculated using the weighted average of common shares outstanding adjusted to include the effect that would occur if in-the-money employee stock options were exercised and RSUs and preferred shares were converted into common shares.
Options to purchase 2.7 million shares in 2007, 0.1 million shares in 2006 and 3.0 million shares in 2005 were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share because these options were out-of-the-money.
Out-of-the-money options had average exercise prices of $65.18 in 2007, $65.24 in 2006 and $53.77 in 2005.      The computations of basic and
diluted net income per common share are as follows:       

(a)   
    Weighted-average common shares outstanding.          Note 12   Preferred Stock       As of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, there were
3 million shares of convertible preferred stock authorized. The preferred stock was issued only for an ESOP established by Quaker and these shares are redeemable for common stock by the ESOP participants. The preferred stock accrues dividends
at an annual rate of $5.46 per share. At year-end 2007 and 2006, there were 803,953 preferred shares issued and 287,553 and 320,853 shares outstanding, respectively. The outstanding preferred shares had a fair value of $108 million as of
December 29, 2007 and $100 million as of December 30,  
       
   94   

Table of Contents  

2006. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into 4.9625 shares of common stock. The preferred shares may be called by us upon written notice
at $78 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends. Quaker made the final award to its ESOP plan in June 2001.       

(a)    
     Does not sum due to rounding.           Note 13   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss       Comprehensive income is a measure of income which includes both net
income and other comprehensive income or loss. Other comprehensive income or loss results from items deferred from recognition into our income statement. Accumulated other comprehensive loss is separately presented on our balance sheet as part of
common shareholders  equity. Other comprehensive income/(loss) was $1,294 million in 2007, $456 million in 2006 and $(167) million in 2005. The accumulated balances for each component of other comprehensive loss were as follows:       

(c)   
    Net of taxes of $72 million in 2005. Also includes $120 million for our share of our equity investees  minimum pension liability adjustments, net of tax.
           
   95   

Table of Contents  

    Note 14   Supplemental Financial Information        
       
   96   

Table of Contents  

(a)   
    In 2005, these amounts include the impact of our acquisition of General Mills, Inc. s 40.5% ownership interest in SVE for $750 million. The excess of our
purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired was $250 million and reported in goodwill. We also reacquired rights to distribute global brands for $263 million which is included in other nonamortizable intangible assets.
           
   97   

Table of Contents  

    Management s Responsibility for Financial Reporting       To Our Shareholders:      At PepsiCo, our actions
  the actions of all our associates   are governed by our Worldwide Code of Conduct. This code is clearly aligned with our stated values   a commitment to sustained growth, through empowered people, operating with responsibility and
building trust. Both the code and our core values enable us to operate with integrity   both within the letter and the spirit of the law. Our code of conduct is reinforced consistently at all levels and in all countries. We have maintained
strong governance policies and practices for many years.      The management of PepsiCo is responsible for the objectivity and integrity of our
consolidated financial statements. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has engaged independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, to audit our consolidated financial statements and they have expressed an unqualified opinion.
     We are committed to providing timely, accurate and understandable information to investors. Our commitment encompasses the following:
      Maintaining strong controls over financial reporting.  Our system of internal control is based on the control criteria framework of
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission published in their report titled,  Internal Control   Integrated Framework . The system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are executed as
authorized and accurately recorded; that assets are safeguarded; and that accounting records are sufficiently reliable to permit the preparation of financial statements that conform in all material respects with accounting principles generally
accepted in the U.S. We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the
specified time periods. We monitor these internal controls through self-assessments and an ongoing program of internal audits. Our internal controls are reinforced through our Worldwide Code of Conduct, which sets forth our commitment to conduct
business with integrity, and within both the letter and the spirit of the law.       Exerting rigorous oversight of the business.  We
continuously review our business results and strategies. This encompasses financial discipline in our strategic and daily business decisions. Our Executive Committee is actively involved   from understanding strategies and alternatives to
reviewing key initiatives and financial performance. The intent is to ensure we remain objective in our assessments, constructively challenge our approach to potential business opportunities and issues, and monitor results and controls.   
   Engaging strong and effective Corporate Governance from our Board of Directors.  We have an active, capable and diligent Board that meets the
required standards for independence, and we welcome the Board s oversight as a representative of our shareholders. Our Audit Committee is comprised of independent directors with the financial literacy, knowledge and experience to provide
appropriate oversight. We review our critical accounting policies, financial reporting and internal control matters with them and encourage their direct communication with KPMG LLP, with our General  
       
   98   

Table of Contents  

Auditor, and with our General Counsel. We also have a senior compliance officer to lead and coordinate our compliance policies and practices.       Providing investors with financial results that are complete, transparent and understandable.  The consolidated financial statements and financial
information included in this report are the responsibility of management. This includes preparing the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require estimates based on management s
best judgment.       PepsiCo has a strong history of doing what s right.  We realize that great companies are built on trust, strong
ethical standards and principles. Our financial results are delivered from that culture of accountability, and we take responsibility for the quality and accuracy of our financial reporting.        

/S/ PETER A. BRIDGMAN    
 
    Peter A. Bridgman    
 
    Senior Vice President and Controller    

/S/ RICHARD GOODMAN    
 
    Richard Goodman    
 
    Chief Financial Officer    

/S/ INDRA K. NOOYI    
 
    Indra K. Nooyi    
 
    Chairman of the Board of Directors and     Chief Executive Officer    

99   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Shareholders      PepsiCo, Inc.:      We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet of PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries ( PepsiCo,
Inc.  or the  Company ) as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Cash Flows and Common Shareholders  Equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 29, 2007. We also have audited PepsiCo, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ). PepsiCo, Inc. s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.      We conducted our
audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that,
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of PepsiCo, Inc. as of December 29, 2007 and
December 30, 2006, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 29, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Also in our opinion, PepsiCo, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2007, based on criteria established in  Internal Control - Integrated Framework  issued by
COSO.       
       
   100   

Table of Contents  

    Selected Financial Data       (in millions except per share amounts, unaudited)       
     2006 results reflect our change in reporting calendars of certain operating units within PI.

(b)   
    In 2007, represents non-cash tax benefits related to the favorable resolution of certain foreign tax matters. In 2006, represents non-cash tax benefits primarily
related to the IRS s examination of our consolidated income tax returns for the years 1998 through 2002. See
 Note 5 .          

(c)   
    Represents the composite high and low sales price and quarterly closing prices for one share of PepsiCo common stock.            
   101   

Table of Contents  

    Five Year Summary        

Includes restructuring and impairment charges of:          

Includes Quaker merger-related costs of:          

In 2007, we recognized $129 million ($0.08 per share) of non-cash tax benefits related to the favorable resolution of certain foreign tax matters. In 2006, we
recognized non-cash tax benefits of $602 million ($0.36 per share) primarily in connection with the IRS s examination of our consolidated income tax returns for the years 1998 through 2002. In 2005, we recorded income tax expense of $460
million ($0.27 per share) related to our repatriation of earnings in connection with the AJCA. In 2004, we reached agreement with the IRS for an open issue related to our discontinued restaurant operations which resulted in a tax benefit of $38
million ($0.02 per share).          

102   

Table of Contents  

    GLOSSARY        Anchor bottlers : The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG), PepsiAmericas (PAS) and Pepsi Bottling Ventures (PBV).       Bottler : customers to whom we have granted exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographical area.       Bottler Case Sales (BCS):  measure of physical beverage volume shipped to retailers and independent distributors from both PepsiCo and our bottlers.         Bottler funding : financial incentives we give to our bottlers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our beverage products.       Concentrate Shipments and Equivalents (CSE) : measure of our physical beverage volume shipments to bottlers, retailers and independent
distributors. This measure is reported on our fiscal year basis.       Consumers : people who eat and drink our products.       CSD : carbonated soft drinks.       Customers : authorized bottlers and independent distributors and retailers.       Derivatives : financial instruments that
we use to manage our risk arising from changes in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and stock prices.       Direct-Store-Delivery (DSD) : delivery system used by us and our bottlers to deliver snacks and beverages directly to retail stores where our products are merchandised.       Effective net pricing : reflects the year-over-year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in different package sizes
and in different countries.       Management operating cash flow : net cash provided by operating activities less capital spending plus
sales of property, plant and equipment. It is our primary measure used to monitor cash flow performance.       Marketplace spending : 
 sales incentives offered through various programs to our customers and consumers (trade spending), as well as advertising and other marketing activities.       Servings : common metric reflecting our consolidated physical unit volume. Our divisions  physical unit measures are converted into servings based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines for
single-serving sizes of our products.         
   103   

Table of Contents  

    Smart Spot :   our initiative that helps consumers find our products that can contribute to
healthier lifestyles.       Transaction gains and losses : the impact on our consolidated financial statements of exchange rate changes
arising from specific transactions.       Translation adjustments : the impact of the conversion of our foreign affiliates  financial
statements to U.S. dollars for the purpose of consolidating our financial statements.         
   104   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk       Included in  
 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis   Our Business Risks .        
  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data       See  
 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules .        
  Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and        Financial Disclosure
      Not applicable.       
  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures         (a) Disclosure Controls and Procedures.   As of the end of
the period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation
of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of the end of the period
covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is (1) recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and (2) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
       (b) Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.   Our management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based upon the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 29, 2007.        Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm  . KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial statements included
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, as part of their audit, has issued their report, included herein, on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.        (c) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.   During our fourth fiscal quarter of 2007, we continued migrating certain of our financial processing systems to  
       
   105   

Table of Contents  

SAP software. This software implementation is part of our ongoing global business transformation initiative, and we plan to continue implementing such
software throughout other parts of our businesses over the course of the next few years. In connection with the SAP implementation and resulting business process changes, we continue to enhance the design and documentation of our internal control
processes to ensure suitable controls over our financial reporting.      Except as described above, there were no changes in our internal
control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting during our fourth fiscal quarter of 2007.       Item 9B.
  Other Information       Not applicable.         
   106   

Table of Contents  

    PART III        Item 10.
  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance       The name, age and background of each of our directors
nominated for election are contained under the caption  Election of Directors  in our Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and are incorporated herein by reference. Pursuant to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K,
information about our executive officers is reported under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this report.      Information on the beneficial ownership reporting for our directors and executive officers is contained under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.      We have a written code of conduct that applies to all of our employees, including
our directors, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller. Our Worldwide Code of Conduct is distributed to all employees, is available on our website at  http://www.pepsico.com  and is included as
Exhibit 14 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A copy of our Worldwide Code of Conduct may be obtained free of charge by writing to Investor Relations, PepsiCo, Inc., 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577.      Our business and affairs are overseen by our Board of Directors pursuant to the North Carolina Business Corporation Act and our By-Laws. The Board of
Directors has three separately designated standing committees: Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance. The charters of these committees are available free of charge on our website at http://www.pepsico.com. The names of each of
our Audit Committee members are contained in our Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders under the caption  Committees of the Board of Directors  and is incorporated herein by reference. Information on our Audit
Committee and Audit Committee financial expertise and financial literacy is contained in our Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders under the captions  The Audit Committee  and  Financial Expertise and Financial
Literacy  and is incorporated herein by reference. The names of each of our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee members are contained in our Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders under the caption
 Committees of the Board of Directors  and are incorporated herein by reference. Information on our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and director nomination process can be found in our Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders under the captions  The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee  and  Director Nomination Process  and is incorporated herein by reference.       Item 11.
  Executive Compensation       Information on compensation of our directors and executive officers and Compensation
Committee interlocks is contained in our Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders under the captions  2007 Director Compensation,   Executive Compensation,  and  Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation,  respectively, and is incorporated herein by reference.         
   107   

Table of Contents  

   The names of each of our Compensation Committee members are contained in our Proxy Statement for our 2008
Annual Meeting of Shareholders under the caption  Committees of the Board of Directors  and are incorporated herein by reference. Information on our Compensation Committee can be found under the caption  The Compensation
Committee  in our Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated by reference herein.       
  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters       Information with respect to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans can be found under the caption  Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans  in our Proxy Statement for our 2008
Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.      Information on the number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock
beneficially owned by each director and named executive officer and by all directors and executive officers as a group is contained under the caption  Ownership of PepsiCo Common Stock by Directors and Executive Officers  in our Proxy
Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. As far as we know, no person beneficially owns more than 5% of the outstanding shares of PepsiCo Common or Convertible Preferred Stock.       Item 13.
  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence         Transactions with Related
Persons  . Information with respect to transactions with related persons, if any, is contained under the caption  Review and Approval of Transactions with Related Persons  in our Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.        Review, Approval or Ratification of Transactions with Related Persons  .
Information with respect to the review, approval or ratification of transactions with related persons is contained under the caption  Review and Approval of Transactions with Related Persons  in our Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.        Promoters and Certain Control Persons  . Not applicable.
       Director Independence  . The name of each director that is independent is contained under the caption  Director
Independence  in our Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.         
   108   

Table of Contents  

    Item 14.
  Principal Accountant Fees and Services       Information on our Audit Committee s pre-approval policy for audit
services, and information on our principal accountant fees and services is contained in our Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders under the captions  Audit Committee Report  and  Audit and Non-Audit Fees, 
and is incorporated herein by reference.       PART IV        Item 15.
  
  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules       (a)1. Financial Statements      The following consolidated financial statements of PepsiCo, Inc. and its affiliates are included herein by      reference to the pages indicated on the index appearing in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and      Analysis :      Consolidated Statement of Income   Fiscal years ended December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and      December 31,
2005.      Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   Fiscal years ended December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and   
  December 31, 2005.      Consolidated Balance Sheet   December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005.      Consolidated
Statement of Common Shareholders  Equity   Fiscal years ended December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005.      Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and      Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
     (a)2. Financial Statement Schedules      These schedules are omitted because they are not required or because the information is set forth in the financial statements or the notes thereto.      (a)3. Exhibits      See Index to Exhibits.         
   109   

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, PepsiCo has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
     Dated: February 15, 2008        

PepsiCo, Inc.    

By:   
     
    /s/    Indra K. Nooyi    

Indra K. Nooyi    

Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer    
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of PepsiCo and in the capacities and on the date indicated.       

SIGNATURE    
      
     TITLE    
     
     DATE     

/s/    Indra K. Nooyi     Indra K. Nooyi   
      
    Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer   
     
    February 15, 2008    

/s/    Richard Goodman     Richard Goodman   
      
    Chief Financial Officer   
     
    February 15, 2008    

/s/    Peter A. Bridgman     Peter A. Bridgman   
      
    Senior Vice President and Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)   
     
    February 15, 2008    

/s/    Dina Dublon     Dina Dublon   
      
    Director   
     
    February 15, 2008    

/s/    Victor J. Dzau     Victor J. Dzau, M.D.   
      
    Director   
     
    February 15, 2008    

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

    INDEX TO EXHIBITS        ITEM 15(a)(3)       The following is a list of the exhibits filed as part of this Form 10-K. The
documents incorporated by reference are located in the SEC s Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. in the SEC s file no. 1-1183.       

EXHIBIT    

3.1   
     
    Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of PepsiCo, Inc., which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc. s Registration Statement on
Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-66632).    

3.2   
     
    By-laws of PepsiCo, Inc., as amended on February 2, 2007, which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to PepsiCo s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 30, 2006.    

4.1   
     
    PepsiCo, Inc. agrees to furnish to the SEC, upon request, a copy of any instrument defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of PepsiCo, Inc. and all of its
subsidiaries for which consolidated or unconsolidated financial statements are required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.    

4.2   
     
    Agency Agreement, dated July 21, 2006, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of PepsiCo s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
September 9, 2006.    

4.3   
     
    Deed of Covenant, dated July 21, 2006, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of PepsiCo s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
September 9, 2006.    

4.4   
     
    Indenture dated May 21, 2007 between PepsiCo, Inc. and The Bank of New York, as trustee, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated May 25, 2007.    

4.5   
     
    Form of 5.15% Senior Note due 2012, which is incorporated herein by Reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 25,
2007.    

4.6   
     
    Supplemental Agency Agreement dated July 31, 2007 by and among PepsiCo, Inc. and The Bank of New York, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of August 2, 2007.    

4.7   
     
    Form of 4.65% Senior Note due 2013, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 3,
2007.    

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

10.11   
     
    PepsiCo, Inc. 2004 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit D to PepsiCo s Proxy Statement for its 2004 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders.*    

10.12   
     
    Form of Regular Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K
dated as of January 28, 2005.*    

10.13   
     
    Form of Regular Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of
January 28, 2005.*    

10.14   
     
    Form of Special Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement (Restricted Stock Units Terms and Conditions), which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to PepsiCo s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of January 28, 2005.*    

10.15   
     
    Form of Special Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement (Stock Option Agreement), which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to PepsiCo s Current Report on
Form 8-K dated as of January 28, 2005.*    

10.16   
     
    Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.5 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K dated as
of January 28, 2005.*    

10.17   
     
    Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.6 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of
January 28, 2005.*    

10.18   
     
    Form of PepsiCo, Inc. Director Indemnification Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to PepsiCo s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 25, 2004.*    

10.19   
     
    Severance Plan for Executive Employees of PepsiCo, Inc. and Affiliates, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to PepsiCo s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2004.*    

10.20   
     
    Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of
February 2, 2006.*    

10.21   
     
    Form of Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K dated as
of February 2, 2006.*    

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

10.42   
     
    First Amendment to the PepsiCo Director Deferral Program, effective September 13, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to PepsiCo s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 8, 2007.*    

10.43   
     
    Agreement between PepsiCo, Inc. and Dawn E. Hudson, executed November 2, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo s Current Report on
Form 8-K dated November 2, 2007.*    

10.44   
     
    Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of February 7,
2008.*    

10.45   
     
    Form of Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of
February 7, 2008.*    

12   
     
    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.    

14   
     
    Worldwide Code of Conduct.    

21   
     
    Subsidiaries of PepsiCo, Inc.    

23   
     
    Consent of KPMG LLP.    

24   
     
    Power of Attorney executed by Indra K. Nooyi, Richard Goodman, Peter A. Bridgman, Dina Dublon, Victor J. Dzau, M.D., Ray L. Hunt, Alberto Ibarg en, Arthur C. Martinez,
Sharon Percy Rockefeller, James J. Schiro, Daniel Vasella and Michael D. White.    

31   
     
    Certification of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.    

32   
     
    Certification of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.    

*   
    Management contracts and compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of this report.

<EX-12>
 2
 dex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

EXHIBIT 12       PEPSICO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES      Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges     (a)            Years Ended
December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005,      December 25, 2004 and December 27, 2003
     (in millions except ratio amounts)       

(a)   
    Based on unrounded amounts.      

(b)   
    One-third of net rent expense is the portion deemed representative of the interest factor.      

</EX-12>

<EX-14>
 3
 dex14.htm
 WORLDWIDE CODE OF CONDUCT

Worldwide Code of Conduct 

EXHIBIT 14       W ORLDWIDE  C ODE  O F  C ONDUCT         Dear Fellow Associates:
       PepsiCo has consistently led the industry with outstanding financial performance   and we can rightfully take pride in our
accomplishments. Like all winning teams, we are constantly asking ourselves,  How do the best get even better?  The answer is to deliver Performance with Purpose: our vision to take PepsiCo s foundation of strength and build on it to
create a company that both generates healthy financial returns and improves the lives of our consumers, our employees and our communities.        To do better by doing better, we must start with our Values and our Code of Conduct. This means delivering superior financial performance the right way, achieving results with integrity, building trust with one another and all of our
stakeholders   with our Values and our Code at the center of everything we do. Our commitment to applying our Values and the Code of Conduct to all aspects of our business is critical to delivering world-class performance   and doing so
with a larger purpose that makes a difference to the world we share.        My intent is that this Code of Conduct will help guide each of
us as we work toward living our Values and making Performance with Purpose a reality. These indispensable tools serve as our unshakeable foundation.        Thank you for your support and your personal engagement in ensuring that PepsiCo remains a high-integrity company that delivers consistently strong performance the right way.        

Indra Nooyi       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     
     INTRODUCTION       PepsiCo s mission is to be the world s premier consumer products company focused on convenient foods and beverages. We seek to produce healthy financial rewards to investors as we provide opportunities for
growth and enrichment to our employees, our business partners and the communities in which we operate. In everything we do, we strive to act with honesty, fairness and integrity and to obey the laws and regulations of the countries where we do
business.      This Code of Conduct applies to PepsiCo, its subsidiaries throughout the world, joint ventures over which
PepsiCo has management control and to every employee of these companies.       RESPECT FOR OUR EMPLOYEES       We believe our most important strength is our employees. We seek to provide a work environment where all employees have the opportunity to reach their
full potential and contribute to PepsiCo s success. We emphasize personal integrity and believe long-term results are the best measure of an employee s performance.      PepsiCo respects the human rights and the dignity of all employees. We endeavor to treat our employees fairly and honestly. We strive to maintain a safe, secure and healthy workplace and it is
against our policy to use forced or child labor. We also strive to follow all applicable employment laws and regulations.      We are committed to equal opportunity in all aspects of employment for employees and applicants. This means providing a workplace free from any form of discrimination or harassment, including sexual harassment. We seek to create a work
environment where people feel comfortable and respected, regardless of individual differences, talents or personal characteristics. Our objective is for the diversity of our employees to reflect the diversity of the population wherever we operate
and for the performance of all employees to be judged fairly and based on their contribution to our results.      PepsiCo
encourages an inclusive culture, which enables all employees to do their best. This means we:       

Welcome and embrace the strengths of our differences,          

Treat each other with respect and fairness, and          

Foster an atmosphere of trust, open communications and candor.         We recognize the needs of individuals to achieve professional and personal balance in their lives. We also respect employee privacy and will acquire and retain only that employee personal
information that is required for operation of the Company s business or required by law.         
   1   

CONSUMERS, CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS AND COMPETITORS       We are committed to the continuation of free enterprise and the legal and regulatory frameworks that support it. Therefore, we recognize the importance of
laws that prohibit restraints of trade, predatory economic activities and unfair, deceptive or unethical business practices.      In all of our business dealings with consumers, customers, suppliers and competitors, we will:       

Avoid any unfair or deceptive practice and always present our services and products in an honest and forthright manner.          

Treat all customers and suppliers honestly, fairly and objectively.          

Select suppliers based on merit, and make clear to all suppliers that we expect them to compete fairly and vigorously for our business.

Compete vigorously and with integrity.          

Never comment on a competitor s product without a good basis for such statements.          

Comply with all competition laws, including those prohibiting agreements or understandings with competitors to fix prices or other sales terms, coordinate bids
or divide sales territories, customers or product lines. These types of agreements with competitors are generally illegal in the United States and many other markets where we conduct business.          GLOBAL RELATIONS       PepsiCo firmly
believes that international commerce strengthens stability and peace by fostering economic growth, opportunity and mutual understanding. As a global enterprise, we recognize our responsibility to act in concert with the legitimate interests of the
countries in which we do business. We will obey all applicable laws and regulations of our host countries. Our objective is to be a good corporate citizen wherever we operate.       BUSINESS GIFTS AND ENTERTAINMENT       Our business decisions are made on merit.
Therefore, we will never give or offer, directly or indirectly, anything of value to a third party, including a government official, political party or candidate, to corruptly influence that person s business decision or gain an unfair
advantage. We will observe PepsiCo s International Anti-Bribery Policy at all times.         
   2   

Giving gifts or entertainment to governmental officials is highly regulated and often
prohibited. Such gifts and entertainment should not be provided unless you have received Law Department approval.      Gifts or
entertainment given to or received from customers or suppliers must never influence, or appear to influence, business decisions. There must be a legitimate business purpose for any business gift or entertainment, it must be in good taste and it must
be consistent with the law, with the giver s and receiver s policies, PepsiCo s policies and your function/division policies (including the Travel and Entertainment Policy). If business gifts are permitted under your function/division
policies, they must be nominal in value and frequency. Customer and supplier meals and entertainment must be reasonable in cost and frequency and consistent with guidelines established by PepsiCo or your function/division.       HEALTH AND SAFETY       PepsiCo is
committed to providing safe and healthy work environments at its facilities for all its employees, visitors, contractors and vendors. It is our policy to provide employees with a drug-free workplace. In order to create an environment free from
threats, violence and intimidation, we are committed to a policy of zero tolerance for violence.      We are dedicated to
designing, constructing, maintaining and operating facilities that protect our people and physical resources. It is our policy to comply with all applicable health and safety laws and regulations, provide and require the use of adequate protective
equipment and measures, and insist that all work be done in a safe and responsible manner. It is the responsibility of each employee to follow all Company policies and procedures related to workplace health and safety.       ENVIRONMENT       PepsiCo is committed to
being an environmentally responsible corporate citizen. We are committed to minimizing the impact of our businesses on the environment with methods that are socially responsible, scientifically based and economically sound. We encourage
conservation, recycling and energy use programs that promote clean air and water, reduce landfill wastes and replenish the planet s natural resources. We will follow applicable environmental laws and regulations in the countries where we
operate.       POLITICAL AND COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES AND CONTRIBUTIONS       PepsiCo believes in contributing to society and encourages employees to participate in community activities.      We will continue to communicate information and opinions on issues of public concern that may affect PepsiCo. Decisions by our employees whether or not to contribute time, money or resources of
their own to any political or community activity are entirely personal and voluntary.      We will obey all laws in promoting
the Company s position to government authorities and in making political contributions. Contributions by the Company to political candidates may be prohibited or regulated. Any such contribution requires the approval of PepsiCo s Vice
President of Public Policy and Government Affairs.       CONFLICTS OF INTEREST       PepsiCo s conflicts of interest policy is straight-forward: Don t compete with PepsiCo businesses, and never let your business dealings on behalf of any of our businesses be influenced,
or appear to be influenced, by personal or family interests.      All actual or apparent conflicts of interest between personal
and professional relationships must be handled honestly and ethically. You must disclose any potential conflict of interest to your supervisor as soon as you become aware of it.      Examples of conflicts that must be disclosed and resolved include:       

Receiving any financial or personal benefit either yourself or through a family member from a company that does or seeks to do business with PepsiCo.

Having more than a nominal equity interest in a competitor or in a company that does or seeks to do business with PepsiCo (for example, ownership of more than 1%
of a supplier s stock).          

Serving on the board of directors or providing consulting services to a company that does or seeks to do business with PepsiCo.          

Owning property (such as real estate or patent rights) that PepsiCo may be interested in acquiring or leasing.          

Having outside business interests that could affect your job performance because of the amount of time and attention diverted from your responsibilities to
PepsiCo.            
   3   

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION AND INSIDER TRADING       While engaged in PepsiCo business, you may receive or learn of confidential, competitively sensitive or proprietary information that has not been
disclosed to the public. Confidential or proprietary information includes all nonpublic information that, if disclosed, might be of use to competitors or might be harmful to PepsiCo, our suppliers or our customers.      You always have a duty to protect the confidential information of PepsiCo and our business partners. You may not disclose confidential
information to anyone outside PepsiCo, even to members of your own family, unless there is a clear business need to do so, the party receiving the information has signed a confidentiality agreement committing to maintain the information s
confidentiality and you believe that the disclosure will not harm or embarrass PepsiCo or its business partners.      PepsiCo
obeys all laws with respect to the disclosure of material, non-public information. Information is considered material if a reasonable investor would consider it important to his or her decision to buy or sell PepsiCo stock. Examples of material
information include: a significant upward or downward revision of earnings forecasts; a significant division restructuring; a major management change; a significant acquisition or divestiture; a significant upcoming product launch or product
innovation. Employees should not trade in PepsiCo securities or the securities of another company involved with PepsiCo while they have material, non-public information about PepsiCo or that company. In addition, employees should not disclose
material, non-public information about PepsiCo or another company to anyone outside the Company, including family members.       ACCOUNTS AND
RECORD-KEEPING       We will continue to observe the most stringent standards in the keeping of our financial records and accounts. Our books
and records must reflect all components of transactions, as well as our own standard of insisting upon an honest and forthright presentation of the facts.      We will ensure that the disclosures we make in reports and documents that we submit to the Securities and Exchange Commission and in other public communications are full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable.
     It is the responsibility of each employee to uphold these standards. Appropriate records must be kept of all transactions
and retained in accordance with PepsiCo s Records Management Policy and Records Retention Schedule. Employees are expected to cooperate fully with our internal and external auditors. Information must not be falsified or concealed under any
circumstance, and an employee whose activities cause false financial reporting will be subject to disciplinary action, including termination.       PROTECTION AND PROPER USE OF COMPANY ASSETS       PepsiCo s technological resources, including computers, voicemail,
e-mail and Internet access, are to be used for proper purposes in a manner consistent with the Code and all other Company policies, including those related to discrimination, harassment and intellectual property. As with all PepsiCo assets, these
resources are to be used for business purposes.      It is generally not PepsiCo s intent to monitor Internet access or
messages on the voicemail and e-mail systems. However, the Company reserves the right to do so in appropriate circumstances, consistent with applicable laws and regulations.      If you have access to PepsiCo information systems, you are responsible for taking the precautions necessary to prohibit unauthorized access to the system. You should safeguard your passwords or
other means of entry.      Employees must not reproduce software assets licensed to PepsiCo, use illegally obtained software or
distribute the original software media or unauthorized copies of software which the Company does not own or license.       REPORTING
POTENTIAL VIOLATIONS OF THE CODE OF CONDUCT       PepsiCo expects its employees, contractors, agents, customers and suppliers to promptly
report any conduct or situation that she/he believes conflicts with this Code or violates a local, state or federal law to their immediate supervisor, Human Resources or through the PepsiCo Speak Up line at:      1-866-729-4888 (from the U.S., Canada, Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands)      For a list of phone numbers for all other countries, go to:      http://www.pepsico.com/PEP_Citizenship/CodeofConduct/SpeakUp/index.cfm         
   4   

Reports can be made anonymously, and the Speak Up line is available toll-free 24 hours a
day. PepsiCo is committed to reviewing any report made in good faith in a prompt manner and taking remedial action when appropriate. Every affected employee is required to fully cooperate with any inquiry that results from any reported conduct or
situation.      PepsiCo is also committed to protecting the rights of those individuals who report these issues to PepsiCo. Any
PepsiCo employee who is found to have engaged in retaliation against any employee who has exercised his/her rights under this Code or under applicable laws will be subject to appropriate remedial action. In addition, those individuals who violate
applicable law may also be subject to civil and criminal penalties.       RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE       All employees are expected to display responsible and ethical behavior, to follow consistently both the meaning and intent of this Code
and to act with integrity on a daily basis. Managers and leaders are expected to ensure that our business processes and practices reinforce the Code, to serve as positive role models by establishing and adhering to high ethical standards, and to
create an ethical culture by encouraging and rewarding actions that are consistent with the Code.      This Code cannot provide
definitive answers to all questions. For that, we must rely on each person s judgment and integrity. You are encouraged to seek guidance when a situation may not be clear. Your supervisor, Human Resources manager or the PepsiCo Law Department
will respond to questions and issues of interpretation about this Code.      Waivers of this Code will be reviewed by the
General Auditor and General Counsel, and in certain circumstances by the Board of Directors, and if required, will be appropriately disclosed.         
   5   

</EX-14>

<EX-21>
 4
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF PEPSICO, INC.

Subsidiaries of PepsiCo, Inc. 

EXHIBIT 21         PEPSICO, INC. SUBSIDIARIES         

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Ahmedabad Advertising and Marketing Company Ltd.   
      
    India    

Alcasa S. A.   
      
    Chile    

Alegro Internacional, S. de R. L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Alimentos del Istmo S. A.   
      
    Panama    

Alimentos Quaker Oats y Compania Limitada   
      
    Guatemala    

Alpac Corporation   
      
    United States    

Anderson Hill Insurance Limited   
      
    Bermuda    

Aradhana Carbonated Beverages Private Ltd.   
      
    India    

Aradhana Convenience Foods Private Limited   
      
    India    

Aradhana Drinks and Beverages Private Limited   
      
    India    

Aradhana Foods and Juices Private Limited   
      
    India    

Aradhana Snack Food Company   
      
    India    

Aradhana Soft Drinks Company   
      
    India    

BAESA Capital Corporation Ltd.   
      
    Cayman Islands    

Balwerk V - Consultadoria Economica e Participacoes     Sociedade Unipessoal, Lta.   
      
          Portugal    

Balwerk VI - Consultadoria Economica e Participacoes     Sociedade Unipessoal, Lta.   
      
          Portugal    

Beaman Bottling Company   
      
    United States    

Beijing Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Ltd.   
      
    China    

Bell Taco Funding Syndicate   
      
    Australia    

Beverage Service Ltd.   
      
    Bermuda    

Beverage Service, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Beverages, Foods   Service Industries, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Bluebird Foods Limited   
      
    New Zealand    

Bluejay Holdings LLC   
      
    United States    

Boquitas Fiestas LLC   
      
    United States    

Boquitas Fiestas S.R.L.   
      
    Honduras    

Border Properties, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Bosso Holdings, LLC   
      
    United States    

Bottling Investment Chile   
      
    Bahamas    

Bramshaw Limited   
      
    Ireland    

Breckingridge, Inc.   
      
    United States    

BUG de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

BUG Holdings S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Cane Investments S.a. r.l   
      
    Luxembourg    

Capital Services Associates   
      
    Netherlands Antilles    

Changchun Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company   
      
    China    

Changsha Pepsi-Cola Beverage Co. Ltd.   
      
    China    

China Bottlers (Hong Kong) Limited   
      
    Hong Kong    

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

China Concentrate Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited   
      
    Hong Kong    

Chipiga, S. de R. L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Chipima, Sociedade De Productos Alimentares, SA   
      
    Portugal    

Chipsy for Food Industries S.A.E.   
      
    Egypt    

Chipsy International SAE   
      
    Egypt    

Chitos International y Cia Ltd.   
      
    Guatemala    

Chongqing Pepsi-Tianfu Beverage Co., Ltd.   
      
    China    

CMC Investment Company   
      
    Bermuda    

Comercializadora Nacional SAS, Ltda.   
      
    Colombia    

Comercializadora Snacks SAS, Ltda.   
      
    Venezuela    

Copella Fruit Juices Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Copper Beach LLC   
      
    United States    

Corina Snacks   
      
    Cyprus    

Corporativo Internacional Mexicano, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Dark Green Australia Pty Limited   
      
    Australia    

Davlyn Realty Corporation   
      
    United States    

Defosto Holdings Limited   
      
    Cyprus    

Desarrollo Inmobiliario Gamesa, S.de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Distribuidora Savoy Guatemala S.A.   
      
    Guatemala    

Doritos Australia One Pty Limited   
      
    Australia    

Doritos Australia Two Pty Limited   
      
    Australia    

Dormant PC Ltd.   
      
    United Kingdom    

D ORO - Sociedade de Productos Alimentares, S.A.   
      
    Portugal    

Duo Juice Company   
      
    United States    

Duo Juice Company BV   
      
    Netherlands    

Dutch Snacks Holding, S.A. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Duyvis B.V.   
      
    Netherlands    

Duyvis Production B.V.   
      
    Netherlands    

Elaboradora Argentina de Cereales, S.R.L.   
      
    Argentina    

Eridanus Investments S.a.r.L.   
      
    Luxembourg    

Euro Juice G.m.b.H. Import and Vertrieb   
      
    Germany    

Evercrisp Snack Productos de Chile S.A.   
      
    Chile    

Fabrica de Productos Alimentocios Rene y Compania     SCA   
      
          Guatemala    

Fabrica de Productos Rene LLC   
      
    United States    

Far East Bottlers (Hong Kong) Limited   
      
    Hong Kong    

Farm Produce (Australia) Pty. Ltd.   
      
    Australia    

Fester Industria Alimenticia Ltda.   
      
    Brazil    

FL Transportation, Inc.   
      
    United States    

FLI Andean LLC   
      
    United States    

FLI Colombia, LLC   
      
    United States    

FLI Snacks Andean GP, LLC   
      
    United States    
       
   2   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

FLRC, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Frito Lay Sp. Zo.o.   
      
    Poland    

Frito-Lay Australia Holdings Pty Ltd.   
      
    Australia    

Frito-Lay Columbia Ltda.   
      
    Colombia    

Frito-Lay de Venezuela, C.A.   
      
    Venezuela    

Frito-Lay Dip Company, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Frito-Lay Dominicana S.A.   
      
    Dominican Republic    

Frito-Lay Foods   
      
    United Kingdom    

Frito-Lay France SA   
      
    France    

Frito-Lay Gida Sanayi Ve Ticaret A.S.   
      
    Turkey    

Frito-Lay Holdings CV   
      
    Netherlands    

Frito-Lay Holdings Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Frito-Lay Investments B.V.   
      
    Netherlands    

Frito-Lay Manufacturing OOO   
      
    Russia    

Frito-Lay Netherlands Holdings B.V.   
      
    Netherlands    

Frito-Lay North America, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Frito-Lay Poland Sp.z.o.o.   
      
    Poland    

Frito-Lay RFLS Holdings, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Frito-Lay Sales, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Frito-Lay Trading Company (Europe) GmbH   
      
    Switzerland    

Frito-Lay Trading Company (Poland) GmbH   
      
    Switzerland    

Frito-Lay Trading Company GmbH   
      
    Switzerland    

Frito-Lay Trinidad Unlimited   
      
    Tabago    

Frito-Lay, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Froooties Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Fuelosophy, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Fundacion Gamesa Quaker, A.C.   
      
    Mexico    

Fundacion Sabritas, A.C.   
      
    Mexico    

Gamesa LLC   
      
    United States    

Gamesa USA, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Gamesa, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Gas Natural de Merida, S.A. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Gatorade de Mexico, S.de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Gatorade Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Gatorade Puerto Rico Company   
      
    United States    

Global PepsiCo Luxembourg Holdings S.a.r.l   
      
    Luxembourg    

Golden Grain Company   
      
    United States    

Goldfinch Holdings LLC   
      
    United States    

Green Hemlock International, LLC   
      
    United States    

Greenville Holding Corp.   
      
    United States    

Grupo Gamesa, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    
       
   3   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Grupo Sabritas, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Guangzhou Pepsi-Cola Beverage Co. Ltd.   
      
    China    

Guangzhou Quaker Oats Food   Beverage Co. Ltd.   
      
    China    

Hangzhou Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited   
      
    China    

Harbin Pepsi-Cola Beverages Co. Ltd.   
      
    China    

Harinera Monterrey, S.A. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Hayfield Finance Company   
      
    United States    

Heathland, LP   
      
    United States    

Hillbrook Insurance Company, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Holland Snacks S.A. de C. V.   
      
    Mexico    

Homefinding Company of Texas   
      
    United States    

Icaria Invest S.a.r.l.   
      
    Luxembourg    

Importadora Gator, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Inmobillaria Interamericana S.A. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Integrated Beverage Services (Bangladesh) Ltd.   
      
    Bangladesh    

International Bottlers Almaty Ltd.   
      
    Kazakhstan    

International Kas, AG   
      
    Liechtenstein    

International Refreshments Co., Ltd.   
      
    Saudi Arabia    

Inversiones PFI Chile Limitada   
      
    Chile    

Inversiones Santa Coloma S.A. (Venezuela)   
      
    Venezuela    

IZZE Beverage Co.   
      
    United States    

J. E. Duke II, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Japan Frito-Lay Ltd.   
      
    Japan    

Jinan Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited   
      
    China    

Jordan Ice   Aerated Water Ltd.   
      
    Jordan    

Jungla Mar del Sur   
      
    Costa Rica    

KRJ Holdings, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Kunming Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited   
      
    China    

Lacenix Cia. Ltda.   
      
    Ecuador    

Large Investments S.a.r.l   
      
    Luxembourg    

Larragana Holding 1, LLC.   
      
    United States    

Larragana Holding 2, LLC.   
      
    United States    

Larragana Holding 3, LLC.   
      
    United States    

Larragana Holding 4, LLC.   
      
    United States    

Larragana Holding 5, LLC.   
      
    United States    

Larragana Holding de Espana, S.L.   
      
    Spain    

Larragana, S.L.   
      
    Spain    

Latin America Beverages, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Latin America Holdings Ltd.   
      
    Cayman Islands    

Latin America Snack Foods, ApS   
      
    Denmark    

Latin Foods International, LLC   
      
    United States    

Latvia Snacks Ltd.   
      
    Latvia    

L Igloo, S.A.   
      
    France    
       
   4   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Linkbay Limited   
      
    Cyprus    

Lithuania Snacks Ltd.   
      
    Lithuania    

Long Bay, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Looza NV   
      
    Belgium    

L-P Investments LLC   
      
    United States    

Maizoro, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Malpensa - Consultadoria e Servicos, LDA   
      
    Portugal    

Matudis - Comercio de Produtos Alimentares, Limitada   
      
    Portugal    

Matutano, S.L.   
      
    Portugal    

Meadowbrook Distributing Corporation   
      
    United States    

Meadowlark Holdings LLC   
      
    United States    

Meadowview Development Co., Inc.   
      
    United States    

Midland Bottling Co.   
      
    United States    

Naked Juice Co.   
      
    United States    

Naked Juice Co. Holdings, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Naked Juice Co. of Glendora   
      
    United States    

Naked Juice Co. of Illinois   
      
    United States    

Naked Juice Co. of New Jersey   
      
    United States    

NCJV, Inc.   
      
    United States    

New Century Beverage Company   
      
    United States    

New Generation Beverages Pty. Ltd.   
      
    Australia    

New Whirled Company   
      
    United States    

Nobel Leasing LLC   
      
    United States    

P.B.I. Fruit Juice Company BVBA   
      
    Belgium    

Panagarh Marketing Company Limited   
      
    India    

Papas Chips   
      
    Uruguay    

Pasteleria Vienesa, C.A.   
      
    Venezuela    

PCBL, LLC   
      
    United States    

PCIL USA Indonesia   
      
    Indonesia    

PCIT Puerto Rico, Inc.   
      
    Puerto Rico    

PCNA Manufacturing, Inc.   
      
    United States    

PEI e Companhia   
      
    Portugal    

PEI, N.V.   
      
    Netherlands Antilles    

Peninsular Beverage Service Sdn. Bhd.   
      
    Malaysia    

Pepsi Bottling Holdings, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Pepsi Bugshan Investments Company   
      
    Egypt    

Pepsi Cola Colombia Ltda   
      
    Colombia    

Pepsi Cola Egypt   
      
    Egypt    

Pepsi Cola Trading Ireland   
      
    Ireland    

Pepsi Foods Private Ltd.   
      
    India    

Pepsi Logisties Company, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Pepsi Overseas (Investments) Partnership   
      
    Canada    
       
   5   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Pepsi Promotions, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Pepsi Srl   
      
    Italy    

Pepsi-BeiBing Yang Beverage Co. Ltd.   
      
    China    

PepsiCo   Cia   
      
    Brazil    

PepsiCo (China) Ltd.   
      
    China    

PepsiCo (Gilbraltar) Limited   
      
    Gilbraltar    

PepsiCo (India) Holdings Pvt. Ltd.   
      
    India    

PepsiCo (Ireland) Limited   
      
    Bermuda    

PepsiCo (Malaysia) SDN. BHD.   
      
    Malaysia    

PepsiCo Alimentos Z.F., Ltda   
      
    Colombia    

PepsiCo Antilles Holdings N.V.   
      
    Netherlands Antilles    

PepsiCo Australia Holdings Pty Ltd.   
      
    Australia    

PepsiCo Australia International   
      
    Australia    

PepsiCo Beverages (Guangzhou) Limited   
      
    China    

PepsiCo Beverages (Hong Kong) Limited   
      
    Hong Kong    

PepsiCo Beverages International Ltd.   
      
    Nigeria    

PepsiCo Beverages Italia Srl   
      
    Italy    

PepsiCo Beverages Switzerland GmbH   
      
    Switzerland    

PepsiCo Canada (Holdings) Co.   
      
    Canada    

PepsiCo Canada Finance LLC   
      
    United States    

PepsiCo Canada ULC   
      
    Canada    

PepsiCo Captive Holdings, Inc.   
      
    United States    

PepsiCo Caribbean, Inc.   
      
    Puerto Rico    

PepsiCo Comercial Exportadora   
      
    Brazil    

PepsiCo de Argentina S.R.L.   
      
    Argentina    

PepsiCo de Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

PepsiCo Deutschland GmbH   
      
    Germany    

PepsiCo do Brazil Holdings Limitada   
      
    Brazil    

PepsiCo do Brazil Ltda.   
      
    Brazil    

PepsiCo Estonia   
      
    Estonia    

PepsiCo Euro Bermuda Limited   
      
    Bermuda    

PepsiCo Euro Finance Antilles B.V.   
      
    Curacao    

PepsiCo Euro Finance Antilles N.V.   
      
    Netherlands Antilles    

PepsiCo Europe Services, S.L.   
      
    Spain    

PepsiCo Finance (Antilles A) N.V.   
      
    United States    

PepsiCo Finance (Antilles B) N.V.   
      
    Curacao    

PepsiCo Finance (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited   
      
    South Africa    

PepsiCo Finance (U.K.) Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

PepsiCo Finance Europe Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

PepsiCo Finance Luxembourg Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    
       
   6   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

PepsiCo Financial Shared Services, Inc.   
      
    United States    

PepsiCo Food   Beverage Holdings Hong Kong     Limited   
      
          Hong Kong    

PepsiCo Foods (China) Co. Ltd.   
      
    China    

PepsiCo Foods (Private) Limited   
      
    Pakistan    

PepsiCo Foods and Beverages International Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

PepsiCo Foods Hellas   
      
    Greece    

PepsiCo Foods International Holdings, Inc.   
      
    United States    

PepsiCo Foods Taiwan Co., Ltd.   
      
    Taiwan    

PepsiCo Foreign Sales Corporation   
      
    Barbados    

PepsiCo France SNC   
      
    France    

PepsiCo Global Investments BV   
      
    Netherlands    

PepsiCo Global Investments Holdings Limited   
      
    Ireland    

PepsiCo Global Investments II BV   
      
    Netherlands    

PepsiCo Global Investments S.a.r.L.   
      
    Luxembourg    

PepsiCo Gulf International FZE   
      
    United Arab Emirates    

PepsiCo Holdings   
      
    United Kingdom    

PepsiCo Holdings Hong Kong Limited   
      
    Hong Kong    

PepsiCo India Holdings, Inc.   
      
    United States    

PepsiCo Internacional Mexico S. de R.L. de C. V.   
      
    Mexico    

PepsiCo International Ireland Limited   
      
    Bermuda    

PepsiCo International Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

PepsiCo International Pte. Ltd.   
      
    Singapore    

PepsiCo International Vietnam Company   
      
    Viet Nam    

PepsiCo Investment (China) Ltd.   
      
    China    

PepsiCo Investments (Europe) I BV   
      
    Netherlands    

PepsiCo Investments Denmark Limited I Aps   
      
    Denmark    

PepsiCo Light BV   
      
    Netherlands    

PepsiCo Maurituis Holdings, Inc.   
      
    Mauritius    

PepsiCo Max BV   
      
    Netherlands    

PepsiCo New Zealand Holdings   
      
    New Zealand    

PepsiCo Nordic Denmark A/S   
      
    Denmark    

PepsiCo Nordic Finland OY   
      
    Finland    

PepsiCo Nordic Norway A/S   
      
    Norway    

PepsiCo Nordic Sweden AB   
      
    Sweden    

PepsiCo NZ Finance Antilles B.V.   
      
    Netherlands Antilles    

PepsiCo One BV   
      
    Netherlands    

PepsiCo Overseas Corporation   
      
    United States    

PepsiCo Pacific Trading Company, Limited   
      
    Hong Kong    

PepsiCo Panimex Inc.   
      
    Mauritius    

PepsiCo Pension Management Services, Ltd.   
      
    United States    

PepsiCo Products BV   
      
    Netherlands    
       
   7   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

PepsiCo Property Management Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

PepsiCo Puerto Rico, Inc.   
      
    United States    

PepsiCo Services International Inc.   
      
    United States    

PepsiCo Snacks France SASU   
      
    France    

PepsiCo Trading (Guangzhou) Company   
      
    China    

PepsiCo Twist BV   
      
    Netherlands    

PepsiCo UK Pension Plan Trustee Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

PepsiCo UK Pension Trust Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

PepsiCo World Trading Company, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Pepsi-Cola (Bermuda) Limited   
      
    Bermuda    

Pepsi-Cola (Thai) Trading Company Limited   
      
    Thailand    

Pepsi-Cola Advertising and Marketing, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Pepsi-Cola Belguim S.a. r.L   
      
    Luxembourg    

Pepsi-cola Beverage (Guilin) Company Limited   
      
    China    

Pepsi-Cola Bottlers Holding, C.V.   
      
    Netherlands    

Pepsi-Cola Bottling Company of St. Louis, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Pepsi-Cola Company   
      
    United States    

Pepsi-Cola de Honduras S.R.L.   
      
    Honduras    

Pepsi-Cola East Africa Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Pepsi-Cola Far East Trade Development Co., Inc.   
      
    Philippines    

Pepsi-Cola Fountain Company, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Pepsi-Cola Industrial Da Amazonia Ltda.   
      
    Brazil    

Pepsi-Cola Interamericana de Guatemala S.A.   
      
    Guatemala    

Pepsi-Cola International (Cyprus) Limited   
      
    Cyprus    

Pepsi-Cola International (PVT) Limited   
      
    Pakistan    

Pepsi-Cola International Limited   
      
    Bermuda    

Pepsi-Cola International Limited (U.S.A.)   
      
    United States    

Pepsi-Cola International, Cork   
      
    Ireland    

Pepsi-Cola Kft. Hungary   
      
    Hungary    

Pepsi-Cola Korea, Co., Ltd.   
      
    Korea    

Pepsi-Cola Maghreb   
      
    Morocco    

Pepsi-Cola Mamulleri Limited Sirketi   
      
    Turkey    

Pepsi-Cola Management and Administrative Services,     Inc.   
      
          United States    

Pepsi-Cola Manufacturing (Ireland)   
      
    Ireland    

Pepsi-Cola Manufacturing (Mediterranean) Limited   
      
    Bermuda    

Pepsi-Cola Manufacturing Company of Urugauay     S.R.L.   
      
          Uruguay    

Pepsi-Cola Manufacturing International Limited   
      
    Bermuda    

Pepsi-Cola Marketing Corp. of P.R. Inc.   
      
    United States    

Pepsi-Cola Mediterranean Ltd.   
      
    United States    

Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan, LLC   
      
    United States    
       
   8   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Pepsi-Cola Mexicana Holdings LLC   
      
    United States    

Pepsi-Cola Mexicana, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Pepsi-Cola Operating Company of Chesapeake and     Indianapolis   
      
          United States    

Pepsi-Cola Panamericana S.R.L.   
      
    Peru    

Pepsi-Cola Panamericana S.R.L.   
      
    Venezuela    

Pepsi-Cola Panamericana, LLC   
      
    United States    

Pepsi-Cola Portugal Marketing E Servicos de Bebidas,     LDA   
      
          Portugal    

Pepsi-Cola Sales and Distribution, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Pepsi-Cola Technical Operations, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Pepsi-Cola U.K. Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Pepsi-Cola Ukranine   
      
    Ukraine    

Pete   Johnny Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

PFI Italia S.R.L.   
      
    Italy    

PIE Holdings Limited   
      
    Ireland    

Pine International LLC   
      
    United States    

Planters U.K. Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

PlayCo, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Polis S.R. L.   
      
    Italy    

Prestwick, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Productos S.A.S. C.V.   
      
    Netherlands    

Products SAS Management BV   
      
    Netherlands    

Produstos Gatorade de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

PRS, Inc.   
      
    United States    

PT Gatorade Indonesia   
      
    Indonesia    

PT Quaker Indonesia   
      
    Indonesia    

Punch N.V.   
      
    Netherlands Antilles    

Punica Getranke GmbH   
      
    Germany    

Putnam Holdings, Inc.   
      
    United States    

QBU Marketing Services, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

QBU Trading Company, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

QFL OHQ Sdn. Bhd.   
      
    Malaysia    

QTG Development, Inc.   
      
    United States    

QTG Services, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Quaker Bebidas, S.L.   
      
    Spain    

Quaker Beverages Italia S.p.A   
      
    Italy    

Quaker Cereals Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Quaker de Ecuador Cia. Ltda.   
      
    Ecuador    

Quaker Developments B.V.   
      
    Netherlands    

Quaker European Beverages, LLC   
      
    United States    

Quaker European Investments B.V.   
      
    Netherlands    

Quaker Foods Ltd.   
      
    United Kingdom    
       
   9   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Quaker Golbal Investments B.V.   
      
    Netherlands    

Quaker Holdings (UK) Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Quaker Manufacturing, LLC   
      
    United States    

Quaker Mexico Holdings, LLC   
      
    United States    

Quaker Oats Asia, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Quaker Oats Australia Pty., Ltd   
      
    Australia    

Quaker Oats B.V.   
      
    Netherlands    

Quaker Oats Capital Corporation   
      
    United States    

Quaker Oats Europe LLC   
      
    United States    

Quaker Oats Europe, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Quaker Oats Japan, Ltd.   
      
    Japan    

Quaker Oats Ltd.   
      
    United Kingdom    

Quaker Oats Puerto Rico, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Quaker Peru S.R.L.   
      
    Peru    

Quaker Products Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Quaker Products Manufacturing Import, Export and     Marketing Ltd. Co.   
      
          Turkey    

Quaker Sales   Distribution, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Quaker Trading Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Red Maple LLC   
      
    United States    

Refrigerantes sul Riograndenses S.A.   
      
    Brazil    

Regia-Comercial E Publicidade Ltda.   
      
    Brazil    

Rolling Frito-Lay Sales, LP   
      
    United States    

S.C. Star Foods E.M. S.R.L.   
      
    Romania    

S.V.E. (Hungary) Trading and Manufacturing Limited   
      
    Hungary    

Sabritas de costa Rica, S. de R.L.   
      
    Costa Rica    

Sabritas Snacks America Latina de Nicaragua y Cia,     Ltda   
      
          Nicaragua    

Sabritas y Compania, SCA   
      
    El Salvador    

Sabritas, LLC   
      
    United States    

Sabritas, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Sakata Rice Snacks Australia Proprietary Limited   
      
    Australia    

Seepoint Holdings Ltd.   
      
    Cyprus    

Senrab Limited   
      
    Ireland    

Servicios Chipiga, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Servicios Harinera Monterrey, S.A. de C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Servicios Operativos Gatorade de Mexico, S. de R.L.     de C.V.   
      
          Mexico    

Seven-Up Asia, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Seven-Up Europe Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Seven-Up Great Britain, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Seven-Up Ireland   
      
    Bermuda    

Seven-Up Light BV   
      
    Netherlands    
       
   10   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Seven-Up Netherlands BV   
      
    Netherlands    

Seven-UP Southern Hemisphere, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Shanghai PepsiCo Snacks Company Limited   
      
    China    

Shanghai Quaker Oats Beverage Co. Ltd.   
      
    China    

Shenyang Pepsi-Cola Beverage Co., Ltd.   
      
    China    

Shenzhen Pepsi-Cola Beverage Co. Ltd.   
      
    China    

Shoebill, LLC   
      
    United States    

Sichuan Pepsi-Cola Beverage Co., Ltd.   
      
    China    

SIH International LLC   
      
    United States    

Simba Pty Ltd.   
      
    South Africa    

Smartfoods, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Smiths Crisps Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Smiths Foods Group, B.V.   
      
    Netherlands    

Snack Food Holdings C.V.   
      
    Netherlands    

Snack Food Investments GmbH   
      
    Switzerland    

Snack Food Investments II GmbH   
      
    Switzerland    

Snack Food Investments Limited   
      
    Bermuda    

Snack Food-Beverage Asia Products Limited   
      
    Hong Kong    

Snack Foods Belgium B.V.B.A.   
      
    Belgium    

Snack Ventures Europe SCA   
      
    Belgium    

Snack Ventures Inversiones, S.L.   
      
    Spain    

Snack Ventures Manufactruing S.L.   
      
    Spain    

Snacks America Latina Ecuador Cia. Ltda   
      
    Ecuador    

Snacks America Latina Peru S.R.L.   
      
    Peru    

Snacks America Latina S.R.L.   
      
    Peru    

Snacks America Latina Venezuela S.R.L.   
      
    Venezuela    

Snacks Guatemala, Ltd.   
      
    Bermuda    

Snacks Ventures S.A.   
      
    Spain    

SoBe Operating Corp., Inc.   
      
    United States    

South Beach Beverage Company, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Sportmex Internacional, S.A. De C.V.   
      
    Mexico    

Stacy s Pita Chip Company, Incorporated   
      
    United States    

Star Foods S.A.   
      
    Poland    

Stokely-Van Camp, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Sun Foods Inc.   
      
    United States    

SVC Latin America, Inc.   
      
    United States    

SVC Latin America, LLC   
      
    United States    

SVC Logistics, Inc.   
      
    United States    

SVC Manufacturing, Inc.   
      
    United States    

SVE Italia   
      
    Italy    

SVE Russia Holdings GmbH   
      
    Germany    
       
   11   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Tastes of Adventures Pty. Ltd.   
      
    Australia    

Tasty Foods S.A.   
      
    Greece    

TFL Holdings, Inc.   
      
    United States    

The Concentrate Manufacturing Company of Ireland   
      
    Ireland    

The Fresh Juice Company of Florida, Inc.   
      
    United States    

The Gatorade Company   
      
    United States    

The Gatorade Company of Australia Pty Ltd.   
      
    Australia    

The Original Pretzel Company Pty. Ltd.   
      
    Australia    

The Quaker Oats Company   
      
    United States    

The Radical Fruit Company of New York   
      
    Ireland    

The Smiths Snackfood Company Ltd.   
      
    Australia    

Tobago Snack Holdings, LLC   
      
    United States    

TPI Urban Renewal Corporation   
      
    United States    

Tropicana Alvalle S.L.   
      
    Spain    

Tropicana Beverages Company   
      
    India    

Tropicana Beverages Greater China Limited   
      
    Hong Kong    

Tropicana Beverages Limited   
      
    Hong Kong    

Tropicana Europe NV   
      
    Belgium    

Tropicana Holding Company, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Tropicana Inversiones, S. L.   
      
    Spain    

Tropicana Looza BENELUX BVBA   
      
    Belgium    

Tropicana Manufacturing Company, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Tropicana Products Sales, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Tropicana Products, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Tropicana Services, Inc.   
      
    United States    

Tropicana Transportation Corp.   
      
    United States    

Tropicana United Kingdom Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Twisties Australia One Pty Limited   
      
    Australia    

Twisties Australia Two Pty Limited   
      
    Australia    

United Food Company S.A.   
      
    Brazil    

Valores Bermuda S.R. L.   
      
    Venezuela    

Valores Mapumar   
      
    Venezuela    

Veurne Snackfoods BVBA   
      
    Belgium    

Walkers (Nominees) Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Walkers Crisps Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Walkers Snack Foods Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Walkers Snack Services Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Walkers Snacks (Distribution) Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Walkers Snacks Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Wotsits Brands Limited   
      
    United Kingdom    

Xi an Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited   
      
    China    

Zhanjiang Pepsi Cola Beverages Limited   
      
    China    
       
   12   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

Consent of KPMG LLP 

EXHIBIT 23        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       Board of Directors and Shareholders
     PepsiCo, Inc.:      We consent to
incorporation by reference in the registration statements and Forms listed below of PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries ( PepsiCo, Inc. ) of our report dated February 15, 2008, with respect to the Consolidated Balance Sheet of PepsiCo,
Inc. as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006 and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Cash Flows and Common Shareholders  Equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 29, 2007, and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2007, which report appears in the December 29, 2007 annual report on Form 10-K of PepsiCo, Inc.       Description, Registration Statement Number        Form S-3     

Extension of the PepsiCo SharePower Stock Option Plan to Employees of Snack Ventures Europe, a joint venture between PepsiCo Foods International and General
Mills, Inc., 33-50685      

Form S-4    
 
     Form S-8    

Retirement Savings and Investment Plan for Union Employees of Tropicana Products, Inc. and Affiliates and the Retirement Savings and Investment Plan for Union
Employees of Tropicana Products, Inc. and Affiliates (Teamster Local Union #173), 333-65992      

/s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York      February 15, 2008   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 6
 dex24.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Power of Attorney 

EXHIBIT 24        POWER OF ATTORNEY       PepsiCo, Inc. ( PepsiCo ) and each of the undersigned, an officer or
director, or both, of PepsiCo, do hereby appoint Larry D. Thompson and Thomas H. Tamoney, Jr., and each of them severally, its, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact to execute on behalf of PepsiCo and the undersigned the following documents
and any and all amendments thereto (including post-effective amendments):       

(i)   
    Automatic Shelf Registration Statement No. 333-133735 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock, Debt Securities, Warrants and Units;

(v)   
    Registration Statements No. 2-82645, 33-51514, 33-60965 and 333-89265 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under the PepsiCo 401(k) Plan
or the PepsiCo Long-Term Savings Program; Registration Statement No. 333-56524 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under the PepsiCo Puerto Rico 1165(e) Plan; Registration Statement No. 333-65992 relating to the offer
and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under the Retirement Savings and Investment Plan for Union Employees of Tropicana Products, Inc. and Affiliates (Teamsters Local Union #173), the Retirement Savings and Investment Plan for Union Employees of
Tropicana Products, Inc. and Affiliates; Registration Statement No. 333-66634 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under The Quaker 401(k) Plan for Salaried Employees and The Quaker 401(k) Plan for Hourly Employees;
Registration No. 333-76196 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under The PepsiCo 401(k) Plan for Salaried Employees; and Registration No. 333-76204 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under The PepsiCo
401(k) Plan for Hourly Employees;          

(vi)   
    Registration Statements No. 33-61731, 333-09363 and 333-109514 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under The PepsiCo, Inc. 1995 Stock
Option Incentive Plan; Registration Statement No. 33-54733 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under The PepsiCo, Inc. 1994 Long- Term Incentive Plan and resales of such shares by executive officers of PepsiCo; Registration
Statement No. 33-19539 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under PepsiCo s 1987 Incentive Plan and resales of such shares by executive officers of PepsiCo; Registration Statement No. 2-65410 relating to the offer
and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under PepsiCo s 1979 Incentive Plan and 1972 Performance Share Plan, as amended; Registration Statement No. 333-66632 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under The Quaker Long Term
Incentive Plan of 1990, The Quaker Long Term Incentive Plan of 1999, and The Quaker Oats Company Stock Option Plan for Outside Directors; Registration Statement No. 333-109509 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under the
PepsiCo, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and resales of such shares by executive officers and directors of PepsiCo; Registration Statement No. 333-142811 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under the PepsiCo, Inc.
Long-Term Incentive Plan;      

(vii)   
    Registration Statement No. 33-22970 and 333-110030 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under PepsiCo s Director Stock Plan and
resales of such shares by Directors of PepsiCo;          

(viii)   
    Registration Statement No. 333-87526 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under The PepsiCo Share Award Plan;

(ix)   
    Schedule 13G relating to PepsiCo s beneficial ownership of Common Stock and Class B Common Stock of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Schedule 13D relating to
PepsiCo s beneficial ownership of Common Stock of PepsiAmericas, Inc., any amendments to such schedule 13D or Schedule 13G and any schedules to such 13D, 13G or any amendment thereto deemed to be necessary or appropriate by any such
attorney-in-fact;          

(x)   
    all other applications, reports, registrations, information, documents and instruments filed or required to be filed by PepsiCo with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, any stock exchanges or any governmental official or agency in connection with the listing, registration or approval of PepsiCo Common Stock, PepsiCo debt securities or warrants, other securities or PepsiCo guarantees of its
subsidiaries  debt securities or warrants, or the offer and sale thereof, or in order to meet PepsiCo s reporting requirements to such entities or persons;         and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, and each of such attorneys shall have the power to act hereunder with or without the other.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this instrument on February 15, 2008.       

PepsiCo, Inc.    

By:   
     
    /s/ Indra K. Nooyi    

Indra K. Nooyi    

Chairman of the Board of Directors and       Chief Executive Officer     

SIGNATURE    
      
     TITLE    

/s/ Indra K. Nooyi     Indra K. Nooyi   
      
    Chairman of the Board of     Directors and Chief Executive     Officer   

/s/ Richard Goodman     Richard Goodman   
      
    Chief Financial Officer   

2   

/s/ Peter A. Bridgman     Peter A. Bridgman   
      
    Senior Vice President and     Controller (Principal     Accounting Officer)   

/s/ Dina Dublon     Dina Dublon   
      
    Director   

/s/ Victor J. Dzau, M.D.     Victor J. Dzau, M.D.   
      
    Director   

/s/ Ray L. Hunt     Ray L. Hunt   
      
    Director   

/s/ Alberto Ibarg en     Alberto Ibarg en   
      
    Director   

/s/ Arthur C. Martinez     Arthur C. Martinez   
      
    Director   

/s/ Sharon Percy Rockefeller     Sharon Percy Rockefeller   
      
    Director   

/s/ James J. Schiro     James J. Schiro   
      
    Director   

/s/ Daniel Vasella     Daniel Vasella   
      
    Director   

/s/ Michael D. White     Michael D. White   
      
    Director   

3   

</EX-24>

<EX-31>
 7
 dex31.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification of CEO and CFO pursuant to Section 302 

EXHIBIT 31        CERTIFICATION       I,  Indra K. Nooyi,  certify that:       

1.   
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of PepsiCo, Inc. (PepsiCo);          

2.   
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;          

3.   
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of PepsiCo as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.   
    PepsiCo s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for PepsiCo and have:          

a)   
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to PepsiCo, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;          

b)   
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;          

c)   
    Evaluated the effectiveness of PepsiCo s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

d)   
    Disclosed in this report any change in PepsiCo s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during PepsiCo s fourth fiscal quarter that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, PepsiCo s internal control over financial reporting; and          

5.   
    PepsiCo s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to PepsiCo s
auditors and the audit committee of PepsiCo s board of directors:          

a)   
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect PepsiCo s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)   
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in PepsiCo s internal control over financial
reporting.          

Date: February 15, 2008   

/s/ Indra K. Nooyi       

Indra K. Nooyi     Chairman of the Board of Directors     and Chief Executive Officer    

CERTIFICATION       I,  Richard Goodman,  certify that:       

1.   
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of PepsiCo, Inc. (PepsiCo);          

2.   
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;          

3.   
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of PepsiCo as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.   
    PepsiCo s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for PepsiCo and have:          

a)   
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to PepsiCo, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;          

b)   
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;          

c)   
    Evaluated the effectiveness of PepsiCo s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

d)   
    Disclosed in this report any change in PepsiCo s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during PepsiCo s fourth fiscal quarter that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, PepsiCo s internal control over financial reporting; and          

5.   
    PepsiCo s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to PepsiCo s
auditors and the audit committee of PepsiCo s board of directors:          

a)   
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect PepsiCo s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)   
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in PepsiCo s internal control over financial
reporting.          

Date: February 15, 2008   

/s/ Richard Goodman    

Richard Goodman    

Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 8
 dex32.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification of CEO and CFO pursuant to Section 906 

EXHIBIT 32       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO      SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002      In connection with the Annual Report of PepsiCo, Inc. (the  Corporation ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007 as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Indra K. Nooyi, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, certify to my knowledge, pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. Section 1350), that:       

1.   
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and          

2.   
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.

Date: February 15, 2008   

/s/ Indra K. Nooyi    

Indra K. Nooyi    

Chairman of the Board of Directors     and Chief Executive Officer    

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO      SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002      In connection with the Annual Report of PepsiCo, Inc. (the
 Corporation ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Richard Goodman, Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation,
certify to my knowledge, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. Section 1350), that:       

1.   
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and          

2.   
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.

Date: February 15, 2008   

/s/ Richard Goodman    

Richard Goodman    

Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-32>

