<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120227_10-K_edgar_data_77476_0001193125-12-081822_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>20315524</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>573633</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5041610</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4313423</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6435966</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3374761</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>159</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>17</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-12-081822.hdr.sgml : 20120227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120227165056
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-12-081822
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		27
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20120227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PEPSICO INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000077476
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BEVERAGES [2080]
		IRS NUMBER:				131584302
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NC
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1225

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-01183
		FILM NUMBER:		12642643

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		700 ANDERSON HILL RD
		CITY:			PURCHASE
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10577
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9142532000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		700 ANDERSON HILL ROAD
		CITY:			PURCHASE
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10577-1444

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PEPSI COLA CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19700903

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-12-081822.txt : 20120227

10-K
 1
 d269581d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

    UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, DC 20549    
         
   FORM 10-K       (Mark One)

For the fiscal year ended  December 31, 2011     
    or        
 
   For the transition period from
                       to
                          
   Commission file number  1-1183         

PepsiCo, Inc.       (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)       

North Carolina      (State or Other Jurisdiction of     Incorporation or Organization)   
     
     13-1584302      (I.R.S. Employer     Identification No.)    

700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York   
  (Address of Principal Executive Offices)   
     
     10577      (Zip Code)    
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  914-253-2000     
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934:    

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange   
   on which registered     

Common Stock, par value 1-2/3 cents per share  
     
  New York and Chicago Stock Exchanges   
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: None
     Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act. Yes       No          Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes      No       

Table of Contents  

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes      No          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes      No             Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.          Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting
company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated filer       

Accelerated filer       

Non-accelerated filer       

Smaller reporting company   

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)    
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes      No          The aggregate market value of PepsiCo Common Stock held by nonaffiliates of PepsiCo (assuming for these purposes, but without conceding, that all executive officers and directors of PepsiCo are affiliates
of PepsiCo) as of June 10, 2011, the last day of business of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, was $108,849,195,879 (based on the closing sale price of PepsiCo s Common Stock on that date as reported on the New York Stock
Exchange).      The number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock outstanding as of February 15, 2012 was
1,570,641,730.       

Documents of Which Portions   
   Are Incorporated by Reference    
      
     Parts of Form 10-K into Which Portion of   
   Documents Are Incorporated     

Proxy Statement for PepsiCo s May 2, 2012   
   Annual Meeting of Shareholders    
      
   III    

Table of Contents  

      PepsiCo, Inc.    
   Form 10-K Annual Report        For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011        Table of Contents

PART I    

Item 1.   
     
     Business    

2  

Item 1A.   
     
     Risk Factors    

11  

Item 1B.   
     
     Unresolved Staff Comments    

22  

Item 2.   
     
     Properties    

22  

Item 3.   
     
     Legal Proceedings    

24  

Item 4.   
     
     Mine Safety Disclosures    

24  

PART II    

Item 5.   
     
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    

27  

Item 6.   
     
     Selected Financial Data    

30  

Item 7.   
     
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

30  

Item 7A.   
     
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

126  

Item 8.   
     
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

126  

Item 9.   
     
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

126  

Item 9A.   
     
     Controls and Procedures    

126  

Item 9B.   
     
     Other Information    

127  

PART III    

Item 10.   
     
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    

127  

Item 11.   
     
     Executive Compensation    

128  

Item 12.   
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

128  

Item 13.   
     
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

128  

Item 14.   
     
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services    

128  

PART IV    

Item 15.   
     
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     

129  

1   

Table of Contents  

    Forward-Looking Statements    
   This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements reflecting our views about our future performance that constitute
 forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the  Reform Act ). Statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act are generally
identified through the inclusion of words such as  believe,   expect,   intend,   estimate,   project,   anticipate,   will  and variations of such words and other similar
expressions. All statements addressing our future operating performance, and statements addressing events and developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act.
These forward-looking statements are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. They inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those predicted in any such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those described in  Risk Factors  in Item 1A. and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations   Our Business Risks  in Item 7. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation
to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are
important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance.        PART I    

Item 1.   
   Business.         PepsiCo, Inc.
was incorporated in Delaware in 1919 and was reincorporated in North Carolina in 1986. When used in this report, the terms  we,   us,   our,   PepsiCo  and the  Company  mean PepsiCo, Inc. and
its divisions and subsidiaries.      We are a leading global food and beverage company with hundreds of brands that are respected
household names throughout the world. Either independently or through contract manufacturers or authorized bottlers, we make, market, sell and distribute a variety of convenient and enjoyable foods and beverages in more than 200 countries and
territories.      We continue to be guided by Performance with Purpose   our belief that what is good for business can and
should be good for society. Our commitment to deliver sustainable growth by investing in a healthier future for people and our planet is as much of a financial decision as it is an ethical one. In 2011, PepsiCo earned a place on the prestigious Dow
Jones Sustainability World Index for the fifth consecutive year, the North America Index for the sixth consecutive year and was ranked as the number one company in the Food and Beverage Supersector.   
         2   

Table of Contents  

    Our Operations       We are organized into four business units, as follows:      

1)  
  PepsiCo Americas Foods (PAF), which includes Frito-Lay North America (FLNA), Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) and all of our Latin American food and snack businesses
(LAF);         

2)  
  PepsiCo Americas Beverages (PAB), which includes all of our North American and Latin American beverage businesses;     

3)  
  PepsiCo Europe, which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in Europe; and     

4)  
  PepsiCo Asia, Middle East and Africa (AMEA), which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in AMEA.    
  Our four business units are comprised of six reportable segments (referred to as divisions), as follows:   

FLNA,      

QFNA,      

LAF,      

PAB,      

Europe, and      

AMEA.         See
Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas.        Frito-Lay North
America        Either independently or through contract manufacturers, FLNA makes, markets, sells and distributes branded
snack foods. These foods include Lay s potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips, Cheetos cheese flavored snacks, Tostitos tortilla chips, branded dips, Ruffles potato chips, Fritos corn chips, SunChips multigrain snacks and Santitas tortilla
chips. FLNA branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. In addition, FLNA s joint venture with Strauss Group makes, markets, sells and distributes Sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. FLNA s net revenue was $13.3
billion, $12.6 billion and $12.4 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and approximated 20%, 22% and 29% of our total net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  
         3   

Table of Contents  

     Quaker Foods North America     
  Either independently or through contract manufacturers, QFNA makes, markets, sells and distributes cereals, rice, pasta and other branded
products. QFNA s products include Quaker oatmeal, Aunt Jemima mixes and syrups, Quaker Chewy granola bars, Quaker grits, Cap n Crunch cereal, Life cereal, Rice-A-Roni side dishes, Quaker rice cakes, Pasta Roni and Near East side dishes.
These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. QFNA s net revenue was $2.7 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009 and approximated 4%, 4% and 6% of our total net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  
    Latin America Foods        Either independently or through contract manufacturers, LAF makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of snack food brands including Marias Gamesa, Doritos, Cheetos, Ruffles, Saladitas, Emperador,
Tostitos and Sabritas, as well as many Quaker-brand cereals and snacks. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. LAF s net revenue was $7.2 billion, $6.3 billion and $5.7 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, and approximated 11%, 11% and 13% of our total net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.       PepsiCo Americas
Beverages        Either independently or through contract manufacturers, PAB makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage
concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Gatorade, Mountain Dew, Diet Pepsi, Aquafina, 7UP (outside the U.S.), Diet Mountain Dew, Tropicana Pure Premium, Sierra Mist and Mirinda. PAB also,
either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea, coffee and water products through joint ventures with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks. In addition, PAB licenses the Aquafina
water brand to its independent bottlers. Furthermore, PAB manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (DPSG), including Dr Pepper and Crush. PAB operates its own bottling plants and distribution
facilities. PAB also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized bottlers, and some of these branded finished goods are sold directly by us to independent distributors and retailers. We and the independent bottlers sell our
brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers. PAB s net revenue was $22.4 billion, $20.4 billion and $10.1 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and approximated 34%, 35% and 23% of our total net revenue in 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively.     See Note 15 for additional information about our acquisitions of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc.
(PBG) and PepsiAmericas, Inc. (PAS) in 2010.       Europe        Either independently or through contract manufacturers, Europe makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading snack foods including Lay s, Walkers, Doritos,
  
         4   

Table of Contents  

Chudo, Cheetos and Ruffles, as well as many Quaker-brand cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. Europe also, either independently or
through contract manufacturers, makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Pepsi Max, 7UP, Diet Pepsi and Tropicana. These branded products are sold
to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. In certain markets, however, Europe operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. In addition, Europe licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized
bottlers and markets this brand. Europe also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name).
Europe s net revenue was $13.6 billion, $9.6 billion and $7.0 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and approximated 20% of our total net revenue in 2011 and 17% of our total net revenue in 2010 and 2009.  
  See Note 15 for additional information about our acquisitions of PBG and PAS in 2010. Also see Note 15 for additional information about
our acquisition of Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC in 2011.       Asia, Middle East   Africa    
  Either independently or through contract manufacturers, AMEA makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading snack food brands
including Lay s, Chipsy, Kurkure, Doritos, Cheetos and Smith s through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. Further, either independently or through contract manufacturers, AMEA makes, markets and sells many
Quaker-brand cereals and snacks. AMEA also makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mirinda, 7UP, Mountain Dew, Aquafina and Tropicana. These
branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. However, in certain markets, AMEA operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. In addition, AMEA licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain
of its authorized bottlers. AMEA also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). AMEA s net
revenue was $7.4 billion, $6.3 billion and $5.3 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and approximated 11%, 11% and 12% of our total net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.       Our Distribution Network       Our products are brought to market through
direct-store-delivery (DSD), customer warehouse and foodservice and vending distribution networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. These distribution systems are described
under the heading  Our Distribution Network  contained in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.    
         5   

Table of Contents  

    Ingredients and Other Supplies    
  The principal ingredients we use in our food and beverage businesses are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates,
aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils and wheat. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins,
including polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. Fuel and natural gas
are also important commodities for us due to their use in our facilities and in the trucks delivering our products. We employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous
shortages. Many of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. The prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price purchase orders, pricing
agreements and derivatives. In addition, risk to our supplies of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. When prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. See Note
10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to commodity costs. See also Item 1A.  Risk Factors   Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption
of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies.        Our Brands    
  We own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including Amp Energy, Aquafina, Aunt Jemima,
Cap n Crunch, Cheetos, Chester s, Chipsy, Chudo, Cracker Jack, Diet Mountain Dew, Diet Pepsi, Doritos, Duyvis, Emperador, Frito-Lay, Fritos, Fruktovy Sad, Frustyle, Gamesa, Gatorade, G2, G Series, Grandma s, Imunele, Izze, Kurkure,
Lay s, Life, Little House in the Village, Lubimy Sad, Manzanita Sol, Marias Gamesa, Matutano, Mirinda, Miss Vickie s, Mother s, Mountain Dew, Mug, Munchies, Naked, Near East, Paso de los Toros, Pasta Roni, Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Pepsi
One, Propel, Quaker, Quaker Chewy, Quakes, Rice-A-Roni, Rold Gold, Ruffles, Sabritas, Saladitas, Sakata, Sandora, 7UP and Diet 7UP (outside the United States), Santitas, Sierra Mist, Simba, Smartfood, Smith s, Snack a Jacks, SoBe, SoBe
Lifewater, Sonric s, Stacy s, SunChips, Tonus, Tostitos, Trop 50, Tropicana, Tropicana Pure Premium, Tropicana Twister, V Water, Vesely Molochnik, Walkers and Ya. We also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection
with our products, including Dole and Ocean Spray. Joint ventures in which we participate either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as Lipton, Starbucks and Sabra. Trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for
identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. We have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. In
addition, we license the use of our trademarks on promotional items for the primary purpose of enhancing brand awareness.   
         6   

Table of Contents  

   We either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to some of our
products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. Some of these patents are licensed to others.       Seasonality       Our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. For
instance, our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food sales are higher in the cooler months. Weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and
generally lowest in the first quarter. However, taken as a whole, seasonality does not have a material impact on our financial results.   
   Our Customers       Our
primary customers include wholesale distributors, grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, authorized independent bottlers and foodservice distributors, including hotels and restaurants. We normally grant our
independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate,
finished goods and Aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality.      In 2011, sales to
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (Wal-Mart), including Sam s Club (Sam s), represented approximately 11% of our total net revenue. Our top five retail customers represented approximately 30% of our 2011 North American net revenue, with Wal-Mart
(including Sam s) representing approximately 18%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers.   
  See  Our Customers  contained in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our independent bottlers.      See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our acquisitions of PBG and PAS in 2010.       Our Competition       Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Our
beverage, snack and food brands compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors.      In U.S. measured channels, our chief beverage competitor, The Coca-Cola Company, has a larger share of carbonated soft drinks (CSD) consumption, while we have a larger share of liquid refreshment
beverages consumption. In addition, The Coca-Cola Company has a significant CSD share advantage in many markets outside the United States.   
         7   

Table of Contents  

   Our snack and food brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack and food
industry worldwide.      Our beverage, snack and food brands compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety and
distribution. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, the introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging, pricing,
increased efficiency in production techniques and brand and trademark development and protection. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution
network, allows us to compete effectively.         

(1)      
      The categories and category share
information in the charts above are as of December 25, 2011 and are defined by the following source of the information: Information Resources, Inc. The above charts exclude data from certain customers such as Wal-Mart that do not report data to this
service.         Research and Development       We engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth in these activities and to drive innovation globally. These activities principally involve the
development of new products, improvement in the quality of existing products, improvement and modernization of production processes, and the development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and
proposed product lines. Our Global Nutrition Group, led by our Chief Scientific Officer, oversees research and development efforts for the company, which are focused on identifying opportunities to transform and grow our product portfolio in the
short- and long-term. Our research platforms are shared across specializations, countries and regions in order to generate innovation. In 2011, we continued to expand our   
         8   

Table of Contents  

portfolio of products made with nutritious ingredients, increasing the amount of whole grains, fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds and low-fat dairy in certain of our products, and we continued to
take steps to reduce the average amount of sodium, saturated fat and added sugar per serving in certain of our products. We also invested in agricultural development and the development and implementation of new technologies to both enhance the
quality and value of our current and future product lines and to minimize our impact on the environment. We made investments to conserve energy and raw materials, and to reduce waste in our facilities, and to improve our packaging process to
continue to reduce total packaging volume, recycle containers, use renewable resources and remove environmentally sensitive materials. Consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. Research
and development costs were $525 million in 2011, $488 million in 2010 and $414 million in 2009 and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses.       Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance       The conduct of our
businesses, including the production, distribution, sale, advertising, marketing, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental
agencies in the United States, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the United States in markets in which our products are made, manufactured or sold. It is our policy to abide by the laws and
regulations around the world that apply to our businesses.      In the United States, we are required to comply with a variety of
laws and regulations, including: the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act; various federal and
state laws and regulations governing equal employment opportunity and our employment relationships, including the Equal Employment Opportunity Act and the National Labor Relations Act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations; and laws
regulating the sale of certain of our products in schools. In our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state
consumer protection laws. For example, in California, Proposition 65 requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. The State
of California continues to evaluate various components and, consequently, food and beverage producers who sell products in California, including PepsiCo, may be required to provide warning labels on their products. See also  Item 1A. Risk
Factors   Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.    
  Outside the United States, we are subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws and
regulations. In addition, in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and
outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business.   
         9   

Table of Contents  

   Legislation has been introduced in certain jurisdictions in which we operate that would
impose special taxes or other limitations on certain products we sell. For example, certain federal, state and local governments in the United States, and in certain other countries in which we operate, have either imposed or are considering the
imposition of taxes on the sale of certain beverages, including non-diet and diet soft drinks, fruit drinks, teas and flavored waters. In the United States, federal and state legislators are also debating proposals to restrict the use of
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits to purchase beverages and foods whose nutritional content exceeds certain levels of sodium, saturated fat and sugar. In addition, legislation has been enacted in certain U.S. states and in certain
other countries in which our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers unless a deposit or other fee is charged. It is possible that
similar or more restrictive legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future.      The cost of compliance with U.S. and
foreign laws does not have a material financial impact on our results of operations.      We are also subject to national and
local environmental laws in the United States and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater and air emissions. In the United States, our facilities must comply with the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, release and disposal of wastes at on-site and off-site locations. We are committed
to meeting all applicable environmental compliance requirements. We and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in
connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. While neither the results of these proceedings nor any indemnification obligations or other liabilities of our subsidiaries in
connection therewith can be predicted with certainty, environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. See also  Item 1A. Risk Factors
  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.        Employees       As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 297,000
people worldwide, including approximately 107,000 people within the United States. Our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. We or our subsidiaries are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. We expect that we will be
able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. We believe that relations with our employees are generally good.   
         10   

Table of Contents  

    Available Information       We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials
that we file with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC
maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at  http://www.sec.gov .   
  Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are also available free of charge on our Internet site at  http://www.pepsico.com  as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically
filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC.         Item 1A. Risk Factors.         Demand for our products may be
adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively.        We are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive categories and rely on continued demand for our products. To generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our
customers and to consumers. Any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position.
Our success depends on: our ability to anticipate and respond to shifts in consumer trends, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are increasingly concerned with health and wellness; our product quality; our
ability to extend our portfolio of convenient foods in growing markets; our ability to develop new products that are responsive to consumer preferences, including our  fun-for-you ,  good-for-you  and  better-for-you 
products; and our ability to respond to competitive product and pricing pressures. For example, our growth rate may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain or grow our current share of the liquid refreshment beverage market in North
America, or our current share of the snack market globally, or if demand for our products does not grow in emerging and developing markets.      In general, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the
aging of the general population; consumer concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients such as sodium, sugar or other product ingredients or attributes; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns;
changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; negative   
         11   

Table of Contents  

publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory action or litigation against us or other companies in our industry; a downturn in economic conditions; or taxes that would increase the
cost of our products to consumers. Any of these changes may reduce consumers  willingness to purchase our products. See also  Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. ,  Unfavorable economic
conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. ,  Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  and
 Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.    
  Our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products and improving
the quality of existing products, and the effectiveness of our product packaging, advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including our ability to successfully adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, such as through use of social media
and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. Although we devote significant resources to the actions mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of
existing products or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to
consumers. Our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of
existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs.        Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to
compete effectively.        The food, snack and beverage industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete
with major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. In many countries where we do business,
including the United States, The Coca-Cola Company is our primary beverage competitor. We also compete with other large companies in each of the food, snack and beverage categories, including Nestl  S.A., Kraft Foods Inc. and Dr Pepper
Snapple Group, Inc. We compete on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, distribution, marketing and promotional activity, convenience, service and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. If we are
unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets. This may have a material adverse impact on our revenues and profit margins. See also  Unfavorable
economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.         Unfavorable economic conditions
may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.        Many of the countries in which we operate,
including the United States and several of the members of the European Union, have experienced and continue to experience   
         12   

Table of Contents  

unfavorable economic conditions. Our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by these unfavorable economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or
tax rates; volatile commodity markets and inflation; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace, potentially impairing our ability to access the capital markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all; the effects of
government initiatives to manage economic conditions; reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general global economy or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label
products or other economy products, or to less profitable channels; impairment of assets; or a decrease in the fair value of pension assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension plans. In
addition, we cannot predict how current or worsening economic conditions will affect our critical customers, suppliers and distributors and any negative impact on our critical customers, suppliers or distributors may also have an adverse impact on
our business results or financial condition. In addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including U.S. and non-U.S. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks, and other financial
institutions, may be exposed to a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. A ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial
institution may limit the availability of credit or willingness of financial institutions to extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all or, with respect to financial institutions who are parties to our financing arrangements,
leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or unhedged against certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials which could have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.   
    Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
       Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. Product contamination or
tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling or contamination,
even if untrue, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. If any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, causes injury or is mislabeled, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to
liability. A widespread product recall or a significant product liability issue could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. Our reputation could also be adversely
impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities; the failure to achieve our goals
with respect to sodium, saturated fat and added sugar reduction or the development of our global nutrition business; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use and
waste management; or our responses to any of the foregoing. In addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand for water continues to increase. Our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act,
or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use. Failure to   
         13   

Table of Contents  

comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our
reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as
well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.        Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable
to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold.     
  Our operations outside of the United States, particularly in Russia, Mexico, Canada and the United Kingdom, contribute significantly to
our revenue and profitability, and we believe that our businesses in developing and emerging markets, particularly China and India, present important future growth opportunities for us. However, there can be no assurance that our existing products,
variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, market or sell will be accepted or successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to local competition, product price, cultural differences or otherwise.
If we are unable to expand our businesses in developing and emerging markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect as a result of our investments, particularly in Russia, as a result of economic and political conditions, increased competition,
reduced demand for our products, an inability to acquire or form strategic business alliances or to make necessary infrastructure investments or for any other reason, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Unstable political
conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold, including in Russia, the Middle East and Egypt, could also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. Factors that could
adversely affect our business results in these markets include: foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, which, from time to time, result in significant cash
balances in foreign countries such as Venezuela, and on the repatriation of funds; currency hyperinflation or devaluation; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; and increased costs of business due to compliance with complex foreign
and United States laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act, and adverse consequences, such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for failing to comply with
these laws and regulations. In addition, disruption in these markets due to political instability or civil unrest could result in a decline in consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. See also Item 1. Business  
 Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance. ,  Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively. ,
 Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. ,  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or
result in litigation.  and  Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.    
         14   

Table of Contents  

     Trade consolidation or the loss of any key customer could adversely affect our financial performance.
       We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including Wal-Mart, as well as other
retailers, to effectively compete. The loss of any of our key customers, including Wal-Mart, could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, in the event that retail ownership becomes more concentrated, retailers may demand
lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity
may be eroded. Failure to appropriately respond to any such actions or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our
financial performance.        Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating
costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.        The conduct of our businesses, including the
production, distribution, sale, advertising, marketing, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United
States, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the United States in markets in which our products are made, manufactured or sold, including in emerging and developing markets where legal and
regulatory systems may be less developed. These laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. Such changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws
related to product labeling, advertising and marketing practices; laws regarding the import of ingredients used in our products; laws regarding the export of our products; laws and programs aimed at reducing ingredients present in certain of our
products, such as sodium, saturated fat and added sugar; increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the effects on health of ingredients in, or attributes of, certain of our products;
state consumer protection laws; taxation requirements, including taxes that would increase the cost of our products to consumers; competition laws; privacy laws; laws regulating the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating access to and
use of water or utilities; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. New laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, may alter
the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities.   
  Governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may also impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or
other restrictions. Studies are underway by third parties to assess the health implications of consumption of carbonated soft drinks as well as certain ingredients present in some of our products. In addition, third-party studies are also underway
to assess the effect on humans due to acrylamide in the diet. Acrylamide is a chemical compound naturally formed in a wide variety of foods when they are cooked (whether commercially or at home), including french fries, potato
  
         15   

Table of Contents  

chips, cereal, bread and coffee. Certain of these studies have found that it is probable that acrylamide causes cancer in laboratory animals when consumed in extraordinary amounts. If consumer
concerns about the health implications of consumption of carbonated soft drinks, certain ingredients present in some of our products or acrylamide increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, or for any other reason, whether
or not valid, demand for our products could decline and we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.      We are also subject to Proposition 65 in California, a law which requires that a specific warning appear on any
product sold in California that contains a substance listed by that State as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. If we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our
products are sold, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere.      In many jurisdictions,
compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. Regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as
product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our
employees or suppliers could take actions that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions which could have a material
adverse effect on our business.      In addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental
remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual
obligations of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential
exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. We cannot assure you that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an
adverse effect on our results of operations. See also  Item 1. Business   Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance.  and  Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in
developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold.  above.        If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or outsource certain functions
effectively, our business could suffer.        We depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness
of our operations, to interface with our customers, to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, and for digital   
         16   

Table of Contents  

marketing activities and electronic communication among our locations around the world and between our personnel and the personnel of our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers and
suppliers. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers,
business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property, or the loss of sensitive or confidential data through security breach or otherwise.      We have embarked on multi-year business transformation initiatives to migrate certain of our financial processing systems to enterprise-wide systems solutions. There can be no certainty that these
initiatives will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result
in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue.   
  In addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing
and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform or do not
perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business
disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach or otherwise, litigation, or remediation costs and could have a negative impact on
employee morale.      Our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting confidential
information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets, litigation, remediation costs, damage to our reputation and loss of revenue resulting
from unauthorized use of confidential information or failure to retain or attract customers following such an event.        Fluctuations in
exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.        We hold assets and incur
liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the United States
are translated into U.S. dollars. Our operations outside of the U.S. generate a significant portion of our net revenue. Fluctuations in exchange rates may therefore adversely impact our business results or financial condition. See also  Market
Risks  contained in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.   
         17   

Table of Contents  

     Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages
of raw materials and other supplies.        We and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our
business. The principal ingredients we use include apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings,
sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polypropylene resin used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack
foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and facilities and in the trucks delivering our products. Some of these raw
materials and supplies are sourced internationally and some are available from a limited number of suppliers. We are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy.
The raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions,
agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls. We purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. If commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our
prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating results. In addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of certain raw materials. Certain of these derivatives
that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. See also  Unfavorable economic conditions may have an
adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. ,  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in
litigation. ,  Market Risks  contained in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.   
    Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.     
  Our ability, and that of our suppliers, business partners, including our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, independent
distributors and retailers, to make, manufacture, distribute and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to any of the following could impair our ability to make,
manufacture, distribute or sell our products: adverse weather conditions or natural disaster, such as a hurricane, earthquake or flooding; government action; fire; terrorism; the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; pandemic; industrial
accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; strikes and other labor disputes; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and business partners. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or
potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.   

         18   

Table of Contents  

     Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively
affect our business and operations.        There is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the
atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may
be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, potatoes and various fruits. We may also be subjected to decreased availability
or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. In addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the
operation of our supply chain. The increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. In the event that such
regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and
delivery. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. As a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. See
also  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.  and  Disruption of our supply chain could have an
adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.         If we are unable to hire or retain key employees
or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business.        Our continued growth
requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. We compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to
develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, including our Chief Executive Officer, or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. In
addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs.   
         19   

Table of Contents  

     A portion of our workforce belongs to unions. Failure to successfully renew collective bargaining
agreements, or strikes or work stoppages could cause our business to suffer.        Many of our employees are covered by
collective bargaining agreements. These agreements expire on various dates. Strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results.
The terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency.   
    Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete divestitures, could have
an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.        We regularly evaluate potential
acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures. Potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things, our ability to realize the full extent of the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the
completion of an acquisition or the formation of a joint venture within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with an acquisition or joint venture; and diversion of
management s attention from base strategies and objectives. In 2011, we acquired Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC (WBD), a Russian company. We continue to assess WBD s business practices, policies and procedures as well as its compliance with our
Worldwide Code of Conduct and applicable laws and, as described under Item 9A. Controls and Procedures, we are in the process of integrating WBD into our overall internal control over financial reporting processes. With respect to acquisitions,
including but not limited to the acquisition of WBD, the following also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the manufacturing, distribution, sales
and administrative support activities and information technology systems among our company and the acquired company and successfully operating in new categories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming
standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative
infrastructures; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed
organizations; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the acquisitions. With respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility of a company with one or
more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. In addition, acquisitions and
joint ventures outside of the United States increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the United States, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with laws and regulations outside the United States. With
respect to divestitures, we may not be able to complete proposed divestitures on terms commercially favorable to us. If an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, or if a divestiture is
not successfully completed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

     Failure to successfully implement our global operating model could have an adverse impact on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.        We recently created the Global Beverages Group and the Global
Snacks Group, both of which are focused on innovation, research and development, brand management and best-practice sharing around the world, as well as collaborating with our Global Nutrition Group to grow our nutrition portfolio. If we are unable
to successfully implement our global operating model, including retention of key employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.        Failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity plan could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.     
  We are implementing a strategic plan that we believe will position our business for future success and growth, to allow us to achieve a
lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food, snack and beverage industries. In order to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited
due to capital constraints. In addition, it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plan. Our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to reduce costs and improve
efficiencies. If we are unable to successfully implement our productivity plan or fail to implement it as timely as we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.   
    Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings.
       Our objective is to maintain credit ratings that provide us with ready access to global capital and credit
markets. Any downgrade of our current credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms
commercially acceptable to us or at all. In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and
therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. Our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under
review for a potential downgrade.        Our intellectual property rights could be infringed or challenged and reduce the value of our
products and brands and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.        We
possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. These intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents,   
         21   

Table of Contents  

business processes and other trade secrets which are important to our business and relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation
of various equipment used in our businesses. We protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of
third-party misuses of our intellectual property. If we fail to obtain or adequately protect our ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes
the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See also  Changes in the
legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.          Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.       We have
received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2011 fiscal year and that remain unresolved.   
     Item 2. Properties.       Our most significant corporate properties include our corporate headquarters building in Purchase, New York and our data center in Plano, Texas, both of which are owned. Leases of plants in North America
generally are on a long-term basis, expiring at various times, with options to renew for additional periods. Most international plants are owned or leased on a long-term basis. We believe that our properties are in good operating condition and are
suitable for the purposes for which they are being used.        Frito-Lay North America     
  FLNA s most significant properties include its headquarters building and a research facility in Plano, Texas, both of which are
owned. FLNA also owns or leases approximately 40 food manufacturing and processing plants and approximately 1,720 warehouses, distribution centers and offices. In addition, FLNA also utilizes approximately 40 plants and production processing
facilities that are owned or leased by our contract manufacturers or co-packers. FLNA s joint venture with Strauss Group also utilizes three plant facilities, one warehouse/distribution center and one office, all of which are owned or leased by
the joint venture.        Quaker Foods North America        QFNA owns a plant in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, which is its most significant property. QFNA also owns four plants and production processing facilities and one office in North America. In addition, QFNA utilizes
approximately 40 manufacturing plants, production processing facilities and distribution centers that are owned or leased by our contract manufacturers or co-packers.   
         22   

Table of Contents  

     Latin America Foods        LAF s most significant properties include two snack manufacturing plants in the Mexican cities of Celaya and Guadalajara, both of which are owned. LAF also owns or leases approximately 60 food
manufacturing and processing plants and approximately 665 warehouses, distribution centers and offices. In addition, LAF also utilizes three properties owned by contract manufacturers or co-packers. LAF also utilizes one plant facility that is
co-owned by a joint venture partner.        PepsiCo Americas Beverages     
  PAB s most significant properties include an office building in Somers, New York and an office building it shares with QFNA in
downtown Chicago, Illinois, both of which are leased, and its Tropicana facility in Bradenton, Florida, its concentrate plants in Cork, Ireland and its research and development facility in Valhalla, New York, all of which are owned. PAB also owns or
leases approximately 85 bottling and production plants and production processing facilities and approximately 445 warehouses, distribution centers and offices. In addition, authorized bottlers in which we have an ownership interest own or lease
approximately 15 bottling plants and 180 distribution centers. PAB also utilizes approximately 60 plants and production processing facilities and approximately 25 warehouses and distribution centers that are owned or leased by our contract
manufacturers or co-packers. PAB also utilizes approximately 185 facilities that are co-owned by a joint venture partner.        Europe
       Europe s most significant properties are its snack manufacturing and processing plant located in Leicester,
United Kingdom which is leased, and its snack research and development facility in Leicester, United Kingdom, its beverage plant in Lebedyan, Russia and its dairy plant in Moscow, Russia, all of which are owned. Europe also owns or leases
approximately 120 plants and approximately 670 warehouses, distribution centers and offices. In addition, authorized bottlers in which we have an ownership interest own or lease one plant and four distribution centers. Europe also utilizes
approximately 35 properties owned by contract manufacturers or co-packers. In addition, Europe utilizes one plant and production processing facility and three distribution centers that are co-owned by or co-leased with a joint venture partner.
       Asia, Middle East   Africa        AMEA s most significant properties are its beverage plants located in Shenzhen, China, Sixth of October City, Egypt and Amman, Jordan and its snack manufacturing and processing plants located in
Sixth of October City, Egypt and Tingalpa, Australia, all of which are owned. AMEA also owns or leases approximately 80 plants and approximately 1,265 warehouses, distribution centers and offices. In addition, authorized bottlers in which we have an
ownership interest own or lease approximately 20 plants and 90 distribution centers. AMEA also utilizes approximately 60 properties owned by contract manufacturers or co-packers. In addition, AMEA also utilizes approximately 25 plants and production
processing facilities and approximately 10 distribution centers that are co-owned by or co-leased with our joint venture partners.   
         23   

Table of Contents  

     Shared Properties        QFNA shares two offices with FLNA and approximately 20 warehouses and distribution centers and 5 offices with PAB, including a research and development laboratory in Barrington, Illinois. FLNA shares one
production facility with LAF. PAB, Europe and AMEA share two production facilities. Europe and AMEA share a research and development facility and an office. PAB and LAF share four beverage plants and two offices. PAB and AMEA share two concentrate
plants.         Item 3. Legal Proceedings.    
  We and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal, administrative, regulatory and government proceedings, claims and inquiries
arising in the normal course of business. While the results of these proceedings, claims and inquiries cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes that the final outcome of the foregoing will not have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial statements, results of operations or cash flows. See also  Item 1. Business   Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance.          Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.       Not
applicable.             
   Executive Officers of the Registrant       The following is a list of names, ages and backgrounds of our current executive officers:       Zein Abdalla , 53, became Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Europe in November 2009. Mr. Abdalla joined PepsiCo in 1995 and has held a variety of senior positions. He has served as General
Manager of PepsiCo s European Beverage Business, General Manager Tropicana Europe and Franchise Vice President for Pakistan and the Gulf region. From 2005 to 2008 he led PepsiCo s continental Europe operations. In September 2008 he went on
to lead the complete portfolio of PepsiCo businesses in Europe. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Mr. Abdalla worked for Mars Incorporated in engineering and manufacturing roles, as well as in sales, marketing, human resources and general management.
      Saad Abdul-Latif , 58, was appointed to the role of Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Asia, Middle East and Africa
(AMEA) in November 2009. Mr. Abdul-Latif began his career with PepsiCo in 1982 where he held a wide range of international roles in PepsiCo s food and beverage businesses. In 1998, he was appointed General Manager for PepsiCo s
beverage business in the MENAPAK Business Unit. In 2001, his region was expanded to include Africa and Central Asia. In 2004, the snacks business in his region was included under his leadership, forming the consolidated Middle East and Africa (MEA)
Region. In September 2008, his responsibilities were extended to Asia, forming the new AMEA Division of PepsiCo International where he acted as President of AMEA.   
         24   

Table of Contents  

    Albert P. Carey , 60, has been Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Americas Beverages
since September 2011. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Frito-Lay North America from June 2006 to September 2011. Mr. Carey began his career with Frito-Lay in 1981 where he spent 20 years in a variety of roles. He served as
President, PepsiCo Sales from February 2003 until June 2006. Prior to that, he served as Chief Operating Officer, PepsiCo Beverages   Foods North America from June 2002 to February 2003 and as PepsiCo s Senior Vice President, Sales and
Retailer Strategies from August 1998 to June 2002.       John C. Compton , 50, has been Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo
Americas Foods since November 2007. Mr. Compton began his career at PepsiCo in 1983 as a Frito-Lay Production Supervisor in the Pulaski, Tennessee manufacturing plant. He has spent 29 years at PepsiCo in various Sales, Marketing, Operations and
General Management assignments. From March 2005 until September 2006, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Quaker, Tropicana, Gatorade, and from September 2006 until November 2007, he was Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo North America.
Mr. Compton served as Vice Chairman and President of the North American Salty Snacks Division of Frito-Lay from March 2003 until March 2005. Prior to that, he served as Chief Marketing Officer of Frito-Lay s North American Salty Snacks
Division from August 2001 until March 2003.       Marie T. Gallagher , 52, was appointed PepsiCo s Senior Vice President
and Controller in May 2011. Ms. Gallagher joined PepsiCo in 2005 as Vice President and Assistant Controller. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Ms. Gallagher was Assistant Controller at Altria Corporate Services and, prior to that, a senior manager
at Coopers   Lybrand.       Thomas Greco , 53, was appointed President of Frito-Lay North America in September 2011.
Prior to that, Mr. Greco served as Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer for Pepsi Beverages Company. Mr. Greco joined PepsiCo in Canada in 1986, and has served in a variety of positions, including Region Vice President,
Midwest; President, Frito-Lay Canada; Senior Vice President, Sales, Frito-Lay North America; President, Global Sales, PepsiCo; and Executive Vice President, Sales, North America Beverages.   
   Enderson Guimaraes , 52, was appointed President of PepsiCo Global Operations in October 2011. Mr. Guimaraes most recently
served as Executive Vice President of Electrolux and Chief Executive Officer of its major appliances business in Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Prior to this, Mr. Guimaraes spent 10 years at Philips Electronics, first as a regional
marketing executive in Brazil and ultimately as Senior Vice President and head of Global Marketing Management and general manager of the WidiWall LED display business. He also served as CEO of Philips  Lifestyle Incubator group, an innovation
engine which created new businesses and developed them over several years. Earlier, Mr. Guimaraes worked in various marketing positions at Danone and Johnson   Johnson.   
   Hugh F. Johnston , 50, was appointed Chief Financial Officer of PepsiCo in March 2010. He previously held the position of Executive
Vice President, Global Operations   
         25   

Table of Contents  

since November 2009 and the position of President of Pepsi-Cola North America since November 2007. He was formerly PepsiCo s Executive Vice President, Operations, a position he held from
October 2006 until November 2007. From April 2005 until October 2006, Mr. Johnston was PepsiCo s Senior Vice President, Transformation. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and
Foods from November 2002 through March 2005, and as PepsiCo s Senior Vice President of Mergers and Acquisitions from March 2002 until November 2002. Mr. Johnston joined PepsiCo in 1987 as a Business Planner and held various finance
positions until 1999 when he left to join Merck   Co., Inc. as Vice President, Retail, a position which he held until he rejoined PepsiCo in 2002. Prior to joining PepsiCo in 1987, Mr. Johnston was with General Electric Company in a
variety of finance positions.       Dr. Mehmood Khan , 53, has been Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo s Global
Nutrition Group since November 2010 and PepsiCo s Chief Scientific Officer since 2008. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Dr. Khan served for five years at Takeda Pharmaceuticals in various leadership roles including President of Research and
Development and Chief Medical Officer. Dr. Khan also served at the Mayo Clinic until 2003 as the director of the Diabetes, Endocrinology and Nutrition Clinical Unit and as Consultant Physician in Endocrinology.   
   Indra K. Nooyi , 56, has been PepsiCo s Chief Executive Officer since October 2006 and assumed the role of Chairman of
PepsiCo s Board of Directors in 2007. She was elected to PepsiCo s Board of Directors and became President and Chief Financial Officer in May 2001, after serving as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 2000.
Ms. Nooyi also served as PepsiCo s Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development from 1996 until 2000, and as PepsiCo s Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning from 1994 until 1996. Prior to joining PepsiCo,
Ms. Nooyi spent four years as Senior Vice President of Strategy, Planning and Strategic Marketing for Asea Brown Boveri, Inc. She was also Vice President and Director of Corporate Strategy and Planning at Motorola, Inc.   
   Maura Abeln Smith , 56, became PepsiCo s Executive Vice President, Public Policy, Government Affairs, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary in May 2011. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Ms. Smith served for eight years as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Global Government Relations of International Paper Company. From 1998 to 2003, she
was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary at Owens Corning. From 2000 to 2003, she also served as Chief Restructuring Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of Owens Corning. Ms. Smith also spent seven years at General
Electric where she was Vice President and General Counsel at the GE Plastics Division. Earlier in her career, Ms. Smith was a partner at the law firm Baker   McKenzie.   
   Cynthia M. Trudell , 58, has been PepsiCo s Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since April, 2011 and
was PepsiCo s Senior Vice President, Chief Personnel Officer from February 2007 until April 2011. Ms. Trudell served as a director of PepsiCo from January 2000 until her appointment to her current position. She was formerly Vice
President of Brunswick Corporation and President of Sea Ray Group from   
         26   

Table of Contents  

2001 until 2006. From 1999 until 2001, Ms. Trudell served as General Motors  Vice President, and Chairman and President of Saturn Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of
GM. Ms. Trudell began her career with the Ford Motor Co. as a chemical process engineer. In 1981, she joined GM and held various engineering and manufacturing supervisory positions. In 1995, she became plant manager at GM s
Wilmington Assembly Center in Delaware. In 1996, she became President of IBC Vehicles in Luton, England, a joint venture between General Motors and Isuzu.      Executive officers are elected by our Board of Directors, and their terms of office continue until the next annual meeting of the Board or until their successors are elected and have qualified. There are
no family relationships among our executive officers.       PART II          Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.    
  Stock Trading Symbol   PEP      Stock Exchange Listings   The New York Stock Exchange is the principal market for our common stock, which is also listed on the Chicago and Swiss Stock Exchanges.   
  Stock Prices   The composite quarterly high, low and closing prices for PepsiCo common stock for each fiscal quarter of 2011 and
2010 are contained in our Selected Financial Data included on page 121.      Shareholders   At February 15, 2012, there were approximately
159,980 shareholders of record of our common stock.      Dividends   Dividends are usually declared in late January or early
to mid-February, May, July and November and paid at the end of March, June and September and the beginning of January. The dividend record dates for these payments are, subject to approval of the Board of Directors, expected to be
March 2, June 1, September 7 and December 7, 2012. We have paid consecutive quarterly cash dividends since 1965. Information with respect to the quarterly dividends declared in 2011 and 2010 is contained in our Selected
Financial Data.      For information on securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see  Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.    
         27   

Table of Contents  

     A summary of our common stock repurchases (in millions, except average price per
share) during the fourth quarter of 2011 under the $15.0 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors and publicly announced on March 15, 2010 and expiring on June 30, 2013, is set forth in the table below. All such
shares of common stock were repurchased pursuant to open market transactions.          Issuer Purchases of Common Stock

28   

Table of Contents  

   PepsiCo also repurchases shares of its convertible preferred stock from an employee stock
ownership plan (ESOP) fund established by Quaker in connection with share redemptions by ESOP participants. The following table summarizes our convertible preferred share repurchases during the fourth quarter.   
   Issuer Purchases of Convertible Preferred Stock        
 
         29   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6. Selected Financial Data.    
  Selected Financial Data is included on page 121.         Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.    

OUR BUSINESS    

Executive Overview   

32  

Our Operations   

34  

Our Customers   

36  

Our Distribution Network   

37  

Our Competition   

37  

Other Relationships   

38  

Our Business Risks   

38  

OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES    

Revenue Recognition   

41  

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   

42  

Income Tax Expense and Accruals   

43  

Pension and Retiree Medical Plans   

44  

OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS    

Items Affecting Comparability   

47  

Results of Operations   Consolidated Review   

51  

Results of Operations   Division Review   

55  

Frito-Lay North America   

56  

Quaker Foods North America   

57  

Latin America Foods   

58  

PepsiCo Americas Beverages   

59  

Europe   

61  

Asia, Middle East   Africa   

63  

Our Liquidity and Capital Resources   

64  
        
         30   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Income    

68  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows    

69  

Consolidated Balance Sheet    

71  

Consolidated Statement of Equity    

72  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

Note 1   Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions   

74  

Note 2   Our Significant Accounting Policies   

80  

Note 3   Restructuring, Impairment and Integration Charges   

83  

Note 4   Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets   

87  

Note 5   Income Taxes   

89  

Note 6   Stock-Based Compensation   

91  

Note 7   Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans   

94  

Note 8   Related Party Transactions   

102  

Note 9   Debt Obligations and Commitments   

104  

Note 10   Financial Instruments   

106  

Note 11   Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo per Common Share   

110  

Note 12   Preferred Stock   

111  

Note 13   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Attributable to PepsiCo   

112  

Note 14   Supplemental Financial Information   

113  

Note 15   Acquisitions   

114  

MANAGEMENT S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING    

118  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    

120  

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA    

121  

FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY    

122  

GLOSSARY    

124  

31   

Table of Contents  

    Our discussion and analysis is an integral part of our consolidated financial statements
and is provided as an addition to, and should be read in connection with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Definitions of key terms can be found in the glossary beginning on page 124. Tabular dollars are presented in
millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts reflect common per share amounts, assume dilution unless otherwise noted, and are based on unrounded amounts. Percentage changes are based on unrounded amounts.    
   OUR BUSINESS        Executive Overview
      We are a leading global food and beverage company with hundreds of brands that are respected household names throughout
the world. Either independently or through contract manufacturers or authorized bottlers, we make, market, sell and distribute a variety of convenient and enjoyable foods and beverages in more than 200 countries and territories.   
  We continue to be guided by Performance with Purpose   our belief that what is good for business can and should be good for society.
Our commitment to deliver sustainable growth by investing in a healthier future for people and our planet is as much of a financial decision as it is an ethical one. In 2011, PepsiCo earned a place on the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability World
Index for the fifth consecutive year, the North America Index for the sixth consecutive year and was ranked as the number one company in the index s Food and Beverage Supersector.   
  Our management monitors a variety of key indicators to evaluate our business results and financial condition. These indicators include
market share, volume, net revenue, operating profit, management operating cash flow, earnings per share and return on invested capital.   
    Strategies to Drive Our Growth into the Future        We made important strides in 2011. In 2012, our journey continues. We are pursuing specific strategic investment and productivity initiatives to build a stronger, more successful company. This includes an
increased investment in our iconic, global brands, bringing innovation to market and increasing our advertising and marketing spending by approximately $500 to $600 million in 2012, the majority in North America. In addition, we have begun to
implement a multi-year productivity program that we believe will further strengthen our complementary food and beverage businesses. These initiatives support our five strategic imperatives on which we continue to be focused.   
    Our first imperative is to build and extend our macrosnacks portfolio globally.     
  PepsiCo is the undisputed leader in macrosnacks around the world. We will work to grow our core salty snack brands Lay s,
Doritos, Cheetos and SunChips while continuing to expand into adjacent categories like whole grain-based snacks. We will continue to create new flavors in tune with local tastes and leverage our go-to-market expertise to ensure our products are
easily accessible in consumers  lives.   
         32   

Table of Contents  

     Our second imperative is to sustainably and profitably grow our beverage business worldwide.
       Our beverage business remains large and highly profitable, accounting for approximately 52 percent of our net revenues
in 2011. Our goal is to grow our developed market beverage business while building on promising gains in emerging and developing markets. We intend to continue to invest in and strengthen our most powerful and iconic beverage brands Pepsi,
Mountain Dew, Sierra Mist, 7UP (outside of the U.S.), Gatorade, Tropicana, Mirinda and Lipton (through our joint venture with Unilever).   
    Our third imperative is to build and expand our nutrition business.     
  Today, PepsiCo has three of the top brands in the category Quaker, Tropicana and Gatorade in a global market for health and
wellness in consumer packaged goods that exceeds $500 billion, driven by strong demographic and consumer trends. Building from our core brands, we believe that we are well-positioned to grow our global nutrition portfolio.   
    Our fourth imperative is to increase and capitalize on the already high coincidence of snack and beverage consumption.     
  Snacks and beverages are complementary categories. When people reach for a salty snack, about 30 percent of the time, they reach for a
carbonated beverage. Our ability to use that combined power goes beyond marketing to innovation, production, distribution and brand management. We intend to increasingly capitalize on our cross-category presence to grow our positions in both
snacks and beverages.        Our fifth imperative is to ensure prudent and responsible financial management.     
  Prudent financial management has always been a hallmark of PepsiCo. In 2012, we are bringing renewed focus to value creation in everything
we do. We intend to continue to deliver attractive cash returns for shareholders by scrutinizing every capital expenditure, expense and working capital investment.   
         33   

Table of Contents  

    Our Operations       We are organized into four business units, as follows:       

1)  
  PepsiCo Americas Foods (PAF), which includes Frito-Lay North America (FLNA), Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) and all of our Latin American food and snack businesses
(LAF);         

2)  
  PepsiCo Americas Beverages (PAB), which includes all of our North American and Latin American beverage businesses;     

3)  
  PepsiCo Europe, which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in Europe; and     

4)  
  PepsiCo Asia, Middle East and Africa (AMEA), which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in AMEA.     
  Our four business units are comprised of six reportable segments (referred to as divisions), as follows:   

FLNA,          

QFNA,          

LAF,          

PAB,          

Europe, and          

AMEA.           Frito-Lay
North America        Either independently or through contract manufacturers, FLNA makes, markets, sells and distributes
branded snack foods. These foods include Lay s potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips, Cheetos cheese flavored snacks, Tostitos tortilla chips, branded dips, Ruffles potato chips, Fritos corn chips, SunChips multigrain snacks and Santitas
tortilla chips. FLNA branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. In addition, FLNA s joint venture with Strauss Group makes, markets, sells and distributes Sabra refrigerated dips and spreads.   
    Quaker Foods North America        Either independently or through contract manufacturers, QFNA makes, markets, sells and distributes cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNA s products include Quaker oatmeal, Aunt Jemima
mixes and syrups, Quaker Chewy granola bars, Quaker grits, Cap n Crunch cereal, Life cereal, Rice-A-Roni side dishes, Quaker rice cakes, Pasta Roni and Near East side dishes. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and
retailers.        Latin America Foods        Either independently or through contract manufacturers, LAF makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of snack food brands including Marias Gamesa, Doritos, Cheetos, Ruffles, Saladitas, Emperador,
Tostitos and Sabritas, as well as many Quaker-brand cereals and snacks. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers.   
         34   

Table of Contents  

     PepsiCo Americas Beverages     
  Either independently or through contract manufacturers, PAB makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups
and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Gatorade, Mountain Dew, Diet Pepsi, Aquafina, 7UP (outside the U.S.), Diet Mountain Dew, Tropicana Pure Premium, Sierra Mist and Mirinda. PAB also, either independently or through
contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea, coffee and water products through joint ventures with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks. In addition, PAB licenses the Aquafina water brand to its independent
bottlers. Furthermore, PAB manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (DPSG), including Dr Pepper and Crush. PAB operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. PAB also sells concentrate
and finished goods for our brands to authorized bottlers, and some of these branded finished goods are sold directly by us to independent distributors and retailers. We and the independent bottlers sell our brands as finished goods to independent
distributors and retailers.      PAB s volume reflects sales to its independent distributors and retailers, as well as the
sales of beverages bearing our trademarks that bottlers have reported as sold to independent distributors and retailers. Bottler case sales (BCS) and concentrate shipments and equivalents (CSE) are not necessarily equal during any given period due
to seasonality, timing of product launches, product mix, bottler inventory practices and other factors. However, the difference between BCS and CSE measures has been greatly reduced since our acquisitions of our anchor bottlers, PBG and PAS, on
February 26, 2010, as we now consolidate these bottlers and thus eliminate the impact of differences between BCS and CSE for a substantial majority of PAB s total volume. While our revenues are not entirely based on BCS volume, as there
continue to be independent bottlers in the supply chain, we believe that BCS is a valuable measure as it quantifies the sell-through of our products at the consumer level.      See Note 15 for additional information about our acquisitions of PBG and PAS in 2010.   
    Europe        Either
independently or through contract manufacturers, Europe makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading snack foods including Lay s, Walkers, Doritos, Chudo, Cheetos and Ruffles, as well as many Quaker-brand cereals and snacks,
through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. Europe also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under
various beverage brands including Pepsi, Pepsi Max, 7UP, Diet Pepsi and Tropicana. These branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. In certain markets, however, Europe operates its own bottling plants
and distribution facilities. In addition, Europe licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers and markets this brand. Europe also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells
ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name).      Europe
reports two measures of volume. Snacks volume is reported on a system-wide basis, which includes our own sales and the sales by our noncontrolled affiliates of snacks bearing Company-owned or licensed trademarks. Beverage volume reflects
Company-owned or authorized bottler sales of beverages bearing Company-owned or licensed trademarks to independent distributors and retailers (see PepsiCo Americas Beverages above). In 2011, we acquired Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC, Russia s
leading branded food and beverage company. WBD s portfolio of products is included within Europe s snacks or beverage reporting, depending on product type.   
         35   

Table of Contents  

   See Note 15 for additional information about our acquisition of WBD in 2011.   
    Asia, Middle East   Africa        Either independently or through contract manufacturers, AMEA makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading snack food brands including Lay s, Chipsy, Kurkure, Doritos, Cheetos and
Smith s through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. Further, either independently or through contract manufacturers, AMEA makes, markets and sells many Quaker-brand cereals and snacks. AMEA also makes, markets,
sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mirinda, 7UP, Mountain Dew, Aquafina and Tropicana. These branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent
distributors and retailers. However, in certain markets, AMEA operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. In addition, AMEA licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers. AMEA also, either independently or
through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). AMEA reports two measures of volume (see Europe above).   
   Our Customers       Our
primary customers include wholesale distributors, grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, authorized independent bottlers and foodservice distributors, including hotels and restaurants. We normally grant our
independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate,
finished goods and Aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality.      Since we do not
sell directly to the consumer, we rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our products. For our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume-based rebates,
product placement fees, promotions and displays. For our independent bottlers, these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade and consumer programs, such as consumer
incentives, advertising support, new product support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. Consumer incentives include coupons, pricing discounts and promotions, and other promotional offers. Advertising support is directed at advertising
programs and supporting independent bottler media. New product support includes targeted consumer and retailer incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point-of-purchase materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. Vending and
cooler equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending machines and cooler equipment. The nature and type of programs vary annually.      In 2011, sales to Wal-Mart (including Sam s) represented approximately 11% of our total net revenue. Our top five retail customers represented approximately 30% of our 2011 North American net
revenue, with Wal-Mart (including Sam s) representing approximately 18%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers.   
         36   

Table of Contents  

    Our Distribution Network       Our products are brought to market through DSD, customer warehouse and foodservice and vending distribution networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and
local trade practices.        Direct-Store-Delivery        We, our independent bottlers and our distributors operate DSD systems that deliver snacks and beverages directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our bottlers. 
 DSD enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. DSD is especially well-suited to products that are restocked often and respond to in-store promotion and merchandising.        Customer Warehouse        Some of our products are delivered from our
manufacturing plants and warehouses to customer warehouses and retail stores. These less costly systems generally work best for products that are less fragile and perishable, have lower turnover, and are less likely to be impulse purchases.
       Foodservice and Vending        Our foodservice and vending sales force distributes snacks, foods and beverages to third-party foodservice and vending distributors and operators. Our foodservice and vending sales force also distributes
certain beverages through our independent bottlers. This distribution system supplies our products to restaurants, businesses, schools, stadiums and similar locations.       Our Competition       Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Our
beverage, snack and food brands compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors.      In U.S. measured channels, our chief beverage competitor, The Coca-Cola Company, has a larger share of CSD consumption, while we have a larger share of liquid refreshment beverages consumption. In
addition, The Coca-Cola Company has a significant CSD share advantage in many markets outside the United States.      Our snack
and food brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack and food industry worldwide.      Our beverage, snack and food
brands compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, the introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our
advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging, pricing, increased efficiency in production techniques and brand and trademark development and protection. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled
with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete effectively.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

    Other Relationships       Certain members of our Board of Directors also serve on the boards of certain vendors and customers. Those Board members do not participate in our vendor selection and negotiations nor in our customer
negotiations. Our transactions with these vendors and customers are in the normal course of business and are consistent with terms negotiated with other vendors and customers. In addition, certain of our employees serve on the boards of Pepsi
Bottling Ventures LLC and other affiliated companies of PepsiCo and do not receive incremental compensation for their Board services.       Our
Business Risks       We are subject to risks in the normal course of business. During 2011, the economic environment in Europe
deteriorated and certain countries experienced debt and credit issues as well as currency fluctuations. We are identifying actions to potentially mitigate the unfavorable impact, if any, on our 2012 financial results. See also  Risk
Factors  in Item 1A.,  Executive Overview  above and  Market Risks  below for more information about these risks.   
    Risk Management Framework        The achievement of our strategic and operating objectives necessarily involves taking risks. Our risk management process is intended to ensure that risks are taken knowingly and purposefully. As such, we
leverage an integrated risk management framework to identify, assess, prioritize, address, manage, monitor and communicate risks across the Company. This framework includes:   

PepsiCo s Board of Directors, which is responsible for overseeing the Company s risk assessment and mitigation, receives updates on key
risks throughout the year. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors helps define PepsiCo s risk management processes and assists the Board in its oversight of strategic, financial, operating, business, compliance, safety, reputational
and other risks facing PepsiCo. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors assists the Board in overseeing potential risks that may be associated with the Company s compensation programs.     

The PepsiCo Risk Committee (PRC), comprised of a cross-functional, geographically diverse, senior management group which meets regularly to
identify, assess, prioritize and address our key risks;          

Division Risk Committees (DRCs), comprised of cross-functional senior management teams which meet regularly to identify, assess, prioritize and
address division-specific business risks;          

PepsiCo s Risk Management Office, which manages the overall risk management process, provides ongoing guidance, tools and analytical support to
the PRC and the DRCs, identifies and assesses potential risks and facilitates ongoing communication between the parties, as well as with PepsiCo s Audit Committee and Board of Directors;      

PepsiCo Corporate Audit, which evaluates the ongoing effectiveness of our key internal controls through periodic audit and review procedures; and

PepsiCo s Compliance Department, which leads and coordinates our compliance policies and practices.      
    Market Risks        We
are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in:       

commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy;      

foreign exchange rates; and          

interest rates.      
         38   

Table of Contents  

   In the normal course of business, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies,
including productivity initiatives, global purchasing programs and hedging strategies. Ongoing productivity initiatives involve the identification and effective implementation of meaningful cost-saving opportunities or efficiencies. Our global
purchasing programs include fixed-price purchase orders and pricing agreements. See Note 9 for further information on our non-cancelable purchasing commitments. Our hedging strategies include the use of derivatives. Certain derivatives are
designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges and qualify for hedge accounting treatment, while others do not qualify and are marked to market through earnings. Cash flows from derivatives used to manage commodity, foreign exchange or interest
risks are classified as operating activities. We do not use derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We perform assessments of our counterparty credit risk regularly, including a review of credit ratings, credit default swap rates
and potential nonperformance of the counterparty. Based on our most recent assessment of our counterparty credit risk, we consider this risk to be low. In addition, we enter into derivative contracts with a variety of financial institutions that we
believe are creditworthy in order to reduce our concentration of credit risk. See  Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.  in  Risk Factors  in Item 1A.
     The fair value of our derivatives fluctuates based on market rates and prices. The sensitivity of our derivatives to these
market fluctuations is discussed below. See Note 10 for further discussion of these derivatives and our hedging policies. See  Our Critical Accounting Policies  for a discussion of the exposure of our pension plan assets and pension and
retiree medical liabilities to risks related to market fluctuations.      Inflationary, deflationary and recessionary conditions
impacting these market risks also impact the demand for and pricing of our products. See  Risk Factors  in Item 1A. for further discussion.       Commodity Prices       We expect to be able to reduce the impact of volatility
in our raw material and energy costs through our hedging strategies and ongoing sourcing initiatives. We use derivatives, with terms of no more than three years, to economically hedge price fluctuations related to a portion of our anticipated
commodity purchases, primarily for metals, energy and agricultural products.      Our open commodity derivative contracts that
qualify for hedge accounting had a face value of $598 million as of December 31, 2011 and $590 million as of December 25, 2010. At the end of 2011, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10%
decrease in the underlying commodity price, would have increased our net unrealized losses in 2011 by $52 million.      Our open
commodity derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting had a face value of $630 million as of December 31, 2011 and $266 million as of December 25, 2010. At the end of 2011, the potential change in fair value of commodity
derivative instruments, assuming a 10% decrease in the underlying commodity price, would have increased our net losses in 2011 by $58 million.   
   Foreign Exchange    
  Financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using period-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities
and weighted-average exchange rates for revenues and expenses. Adjustments resulting from translating net assets are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within shareholders  equity under the caption currency
translation adjustment.   
         39   

Table of Contents  

   Our operations outside of the U.S. generate approximately 50% of our net revenue, with
Russia, Mexico, Canada and the United Kingdom comprising approximately 23% of our net revenue. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency risks. During 2011, favorable foreign currency contributed 1 percentage point to net revenue growth,
primarily due to appreciation of the euro, Canadian dollar and Mexican peso. Currency declines against the U.S. dollar which are not offset could adversely impact our future results.   
  In addition, we continue to use the official exchange rate to translate the financial statements of our snack and beverage businesses in
Venezuela. We use the official rate as we currently intend to remit dividends solely through the government-operated Foreign Exchange Administration Board (CADIVI). As of the beginning of our 2010 fiscal year, the results of our Venezuelan
businesses were reported under hyperinflationary accounting. Consequently, the functional currency of our Venezuelan entities was changed from the bolivar fuerte (bolivar) to the U.S. dollar. Effective January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan
government devalued the bolivar by resetting the official exchange rate from 2.15 bolivars per dollar to 4.3 bolivars per dollar; however, certain activities were permitted to access an exchange rate of 2.6 bolivars per dollar. We continue to use
all available options to obtain U.S. dollars to meet our operational needs. In 2011 and 2010, the majority of our transactions were remeasured at the 4.3 exchange rate, and as a result of the change to hyperinflationary accounting and the
devaluation of the bolivar, we recorded a one-time net charge of $120 million in the first quarter of 2010. In 2011 and 2010, our operations in Venezuela comprised 8% and 4% of our cash and cash equivalents balance, respectively, and generated less
than 1% of our net revenue. As of January 1, 2011, the Venezuelan government unified the country s two official exchange rates (4.3 and 2.6 bolivars per dollar) by eliminating the 2.6 bolivars per dollar rate, which was previously
permitted for certain activities. This change did not have a material impact on our financial statements.      Exchange rate gains
or losses related to foreign currency transactions are recognized as transaction gains or losses in our income statement as incurred. We may enter into derivatives, primarily forward contracts with terms of no more than two years, to manage our
exposure to foreign currency transaction risk. Our foreign currency derivatives had a total face value of $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2011 and $1.7 billion as of December 25, 2010. At the end of 2011, we estimate that an unfavorable
10% change in the exchange rates would have decreased our net unrealized gains by $105 million. For foreign currency derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, all losses and gains were offset by changes in the underlying hedged
items, resulting in no net material impact on earnings.       Interest Rates    
  We centrally manage our debt and investment portfolios considering investment opportunities and risks, tax consequences and overall
financing strategies. We use various interest rate derivative instruments including, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, Treasury locks and swap locks to manage our overall interest expense and foreign
exchange risk. These instruments effectively change the interest rate and currency of specific debt issuances. Certain of our fixed rate indebtedness has been swapped to floating rates. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the
interest rate and cross-currency swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt. Our Treasury locks and swap locks are entered into to protect against unfavorable interest rate changes relating to forecasted debt
transactions.   
         40   

Table of Contents  

   Assuming year-end 2011 variable rate debt and investment levels, a 1-percentage-point
increase in interest rates would have increased net interest expense by $55 million in 2011.       OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
      An appreciation of our critical accounting policies is necessary to understand our financial results. These policies may
require management to make difficult and subjective judgments regarding uncertainties, and as a result, such estimates may significantly impact our financial results. The precision of these estimates and the likelihood of future changes depend on a
number of underlying variables and a range of possible outcomes. Other than our accounting for pension plans, our critical accounting policies do not involve a choice between alternative methods of accounting. We applied our critical accounting
policies and estimation methods consistently in all material respects, and for all periods presented, and have discussed these policies with our Audit Committee.      Our critical accounting policies arise in conjunction with the following:       

revenue recognition;          

goodwill and other intangible assets;          

income tax expense and accruals; and          

pension and retiree medical plans.          Revenue Recognition       Our products are sold for cash or on credit terms. Our
credit terms, which are established in accordance with local and industry practices, typically require payment within 30 days of delivery in the U.S., and generally within 30 to 90 days internationally, and may allow discounts for early payment. We
recognize revenue upon shipment or delivery to our customers based on written sales terms that do not allow for a right of return. However, our policy for DSD and certain chilled products is to remove and replace damaged and out-of-date products
from store shelves to ensure that consumers receive the product quality and freshness they expect. Similarly, our policy for certain warehouse-distributed products is to replace damaged and out-of-date products. Based on our experience with this
practice, we have reserved for anticipated damaged and out-of-date products.      Our policy is to provide customers with product
when needed. In fact, our commitment to freshness and product dating serves to regulate the quantity of product shipped or delivered. In addition, DSD products are placed on the shelf by our employees with customer shelf space and storerooms
limiting the quantity of product. For product delivered through our other distribution networks, we monitor customer inventory levels.      As discussed in  Our Customers,  we offer sales incentives and discounts through various programs to customers and consumers. Sales incentives and discounts are accounted for as a reduction of
revenue and totaled $34.6 billion in 2011, $29.1 billion in 2010 and $12.9 billion in 2009. Sales incentives include payments to customers for performing merchandising activities on our behalf, such as payments for in-store displays, payments to
gain distribution of new products, payments for shelf space and discounts to promote lower retail prices. A number of our sales incentives, such as bottler funding to independent bottlers and customer volume rebates, are based on annual targets, and
accruals are established during the year for the expected payout. These accruals are based on contract terms and our historical experience with similar programs and   
         41   

Table of Contents  

require management judgment with respect to estimating customer participation and performance levels. Differences between estimated expense and actual incentive costs are normally insignificant
and are recognized in earnings in the period such differences are determined. The terms of most of our incentive arrangements do not exceed a year, and therefore do not require highly uncertain long-term estimates. Certain arrangements, such as
fountain pouring rights and sponsorship contracts, may extend beyond one year. Payments made to obtain these rights are recognized over the shorter of the economic or contractual life, as a reduction of revenue, and the remaining balances of $288
million as of December 31, 2011 and $296 million as of December 25, 2010 are included in current assets and other assets on our balance sheet.      For interim reporting, our policy is to allocate our forecasted full-year sales incentives for most of our programs to each of our interim reporting periods in the same year that benefits from the
programs. The allocation methodology is based on our forecasted sales incentives for the full year and the proportion of each interim period s actual gross revenue to our forecasted annual gross revenue. Based on our review of the forecasts at
each interim period, any changes in estimates and the related allocation of sales incentives are recognized in the interim period as they are identified. In addition, we apply a similar allocation methodology for interim reporting purposes for other
marketplace spending, which includes the costs of advertising and other marketing activities. See Note 2 for additional information on our sales incentives and other marketplace spending. Our annual financial statements are not impacted by this
interim allocation methodology.      We estimate and reserve for our bad debt exposure based on our experience with past due
accounts and collectibility, the aging of accounts receivable and our analysis of customer data. Bad debt expense is classified within selling, general and administrative expenses in our income statement.   
   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets       We sell products under a number of brand names, many of which were developed by us. The brand development costs are expensed as incurred. We also purchase brands in acquisitions. In a business
combination, the consideration is first assigned to identifiable assets and liabilities, including brands, based on estimated fair values, with any excess recorded as goodwill. Determining fair value requires significant estimates and assumptions
based on an evaluation of a number of factors, such as marketplace participants, product life cycles, market share, consumer awareness, brand history and future expansion expectations, amount and timing of future cash flows and the discount rate
applied to the cash flows.      We believe that a brand has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong revenue and cash flow
performance, and we have the intent and ability to support the brand with marketplace spending for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual brand criteria are not met, brands are amortized over their expected useful lives, which generally range
from five to 40 years. Determining the expected life of a brand requires management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors, including market share, consumer awareness, brand history and future expansion expectations, as well
as the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the brand is sold.      Perpetual brands and goodwill are not amortized
and are assessed for impairment at least annually. If the carrying amount of a perpetual brand exceeds its fair value, as determined by its discounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Goodwill is
evaluated using a two-step impairment test at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit can be a division or business within a division. The first step compares the book value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, with its fair value, as
determined by its discounted cash flows. If the book   
         42   

Table of Contents  

value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we complete the second step to determine the amount of goodwill impairment loss that we should record, if any. In the second step, we determine
an implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities other than goodwill (including any unrecognized intangible assets). The amount of impairment loss is
equal to the excess of the book value of the goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill.      Amortizable brands are
only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating or macroeconomic environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted future cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based
on its discounted future cash flows.      In connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, we reacquired certain franchise
rights which provided PBG and PAS with the exclusive and perpetual rights to manufacture and/or distribute beverages for sale in specified territories. In determining the useful life of these reacquired franchise rights, we considered many factors,
including the pre-existing perpetual bottling arrangements, the indefinite period expected for the reacquired rights to contribute to our future cash flows, as well as the lack of any factors that would limit the useful life of the reacquired rights
to us, including legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors. Therefore, certain reacquired franchise rights, as well as perpetual brands and goodwill, are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment at least
annually. Certain reacquired and acquired franchise rights are amortized over the remaining contractual period of the contract in which the right was granted.      On December 7, 2009, we reached an agreement with DPSG to manufacture and distribute Dr Pepper and certain other DPSG products in the territories where they were previously sold by PBG and PAS. Under
the terms of the agreement, we made an upfront payment of $900 million to DPSG on February 26, 2010. Based upon the terms of the agreement with DPSG, the amount of the upfront payment was capitalized and is not amortized, but instead is tested
for impairment at least annually.      Significant management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and
macroeconomic changes and to estimate future cash flows. Assumptions used in our impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are based on the best available market information and are consistent with our internal
forecasts and operating plans. These assumptions could be adversely impacted by certain of the risks discussed in  Risk Factors  in Item 1A. and  Our Business Risks.    
  We did not recognize any impairment charges for goodwill in the years presented. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, we did not
have any reporting units that were at risk of failing the first step of the goodwill impairment test. In connection with the merger and integration of WBD in 2011, we recorded a $14 million impairment charge for discontinued brands. We did not
recognize any impairment charges for other nonamortizable intangible assets in 2010 and 2009. As of December 31, 2011, we had $31.4 billion of goodwill and other nonamortizable intangible assets, of which approximately 70% related to the
acquisitions of PBG, PAS and WBD.       Income Tax Expense and Accruals    
  Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various
jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish reserves when,   
         43   

Table of Contents  

despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are subject to challenge and that we may not succeed. We adjust these reserves, as well
as the related interest, in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit.      An estimated
effective tax rate for a year is applied to our quarterly operating results. In the event there is a significant or unusual item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is separately calculated and recorded
at the same time as that item. We consider the tax adjustments from the resolution of prior year tax matters to be among such items.      Tax law requires items to be included in our tax returns at different times than the items are reflected in our financial statements. As a result, our annual tax rate reflected in our financial statements
is different than that reported in our tax returns (our cash tax rate). Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These
temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in our tax returns in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in
our income statement. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax liabilities
generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which we have already taken a deduction in our tax return but have not yet recognized as expense in our financial statements.
     In 2011, our annual tax rate was 26.8% compared to 23.0% in 2010, as discussed in  Other Consolidated Results.  The
tax rate in 2011 increased 3.8 percentage points primarily reflecting the prior year non-taxable gain and reversal of deferred taxes attributable to our previously held equity interests in connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS.   
   Pension and Retiree Medical Plans       Our pension plans cover certain full-time employees in the U.S. and certain international employees. Benefits are determined based on either years of service or a combination of years of service and
earnings. Certain U.S. and Canada retirees are also eligible for medical and life insurance benefits (retiree medical) if they meet age and service requirements. Generally, our share of retiree medical costs is capped at specified dollar amounts
which vary based upon years of service, with retirees contributing the remainder of the cost.      As of February 2012, certain
U.S. employees earning a benefit under one of our defined benefit pension plans will no longer be eligible for Company matching contributions on their 401(k) contributions.      See Note 7 for information about certain changes to our U.S. pension and retiree medical plans and changes in connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS.   
    Our Assumptions     
  The determination of pension and retiree medical plan obligations and related expenses requires the use of assumptions to estimate the
amount of benefits that employees earn while working, as well as the present value of those benefits. Annual pension and retiree medical expense amounts are principally based on four components: (1) the value of benefits earned by employees for
  
         44   

Table of Contents  

working during the year (service cost), (2) the increase in the liability due to the passage of time (interest cost), and (3) other gains and losses as discussed below, reduced by
(4) the expected return on plan assets for our funded plans.      Significant assumptions used to measure our annual pension
and retiree medical expense include:       

the interest rate used to determine the present value of liabilities (discount rate);      

certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality;      

the expected return on assets in our funded plans;          

for pension expense, the rate of salary increases for plans where benefits are based on earnings; and      

for retiree medical expense, health care cost trend rates.         Our assumptions reflect our historical experience and management s best judgment regarding future expectations. Due to the significant management judgment involved, our assumptions could have a
material impact on the measurement of our pension and retiree medical benefit expenses and obligations.      At each measurement
date, the discount rates are based on interest rates for high-quality, long-term corporate debt securities with maturities comparable to those of our liabilities. Our U.S. discount rate is determined using the Mercer Pension Discount Yield Curve
(Mercer Yield Curve). The Mercer Yield Curve uses a portfolio of high-quality bonds rated Aa or higher by Moody s. The Mercer Yield Curve includes bonds that closely match the timing and amount of our expected benefit payments.   
  The expected return on pension plan assets is based on our pension plan investment strategy, our expectations for long-term rates of
return by asset class, taking into account volatility and correlation among asset classes and our historical experience. We also review current levels of interest rates and inflation to assess the reasonableness of the long-term rates. We evaluate
our expected return assumptions annually to ensure that they are reasonable. Our pension plan investment strategy includes the use of actively managed securities and is reviewed periodically in conjunction with plan liabilities, an evaluation of
market conditions, tolerance for risk and cash requirements for benefit payments. Our investment objective is to ensure that funds are available to meet the plans  benefit obligations when they become due. Our overall investment strategy is to
prudently invest plan assets in a well-diversified portfolio of equity and high-quality debt securities to achieve our long-term return expectations. Our investment policy also permits the use of derivative instruments which are primarily used to
reduce risk. Our expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is 7.8%. Our 2011 target investment allocation was 40% for U.S. equity, 20% for international equity and 40% for fixed income. For 2012, our target allocations are as follows:
40% for fixed income, 33% for U.S. equity, 22% for international equity and 5% for real estate. The change to the 2012 target asset allocations was made to increase diversification. Actual investment allocations may vary from our target investment
allocations due to prevailing market conditions. We regularly review our actual investment allocations and periodically rebalance our investments to our target allocations. To calculate the expected return on pension plan assets, our market-related
value of assets for fixed income is the actual fair value. For all other asset categories, we use a method that recognizes investment gains or losses (the difference between the expected and actual return based on the market-related value of assets)
over a five-year period. This has the effect of reducing year-to-year volatility.   
         45   

Table of Contents  

   The difference between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return on plan
assets is added to, or subtracted from, other gains and losses resulting from actual experience differing from our assumptions and from changes in our assumptions determined at each measurement date. If this net accumulated gain or loss exceeds 10%
of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or plan liabilities, a portion of the net gain or loss is included in expense for the following year based upon the average remaining service period of active plan participants, which is
approximately 10 years for pension expense and approximately 8 years for retiree medical expense. The cost or benefit of plan changes that increase or decrease benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost/(credit)) is included in earnings
on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of active plan participants.      The health care trend rate
used to determine our retiree medical plan s liability and expense is reviewed annually. Our review is based on our claim experience, information provided by our health plans and actuaries, and our knowledge of the health care industry. Our
review of the trend rate considers factors such as demographics, plan design, new medical technologies and changes in medical carriers.      Weighted-average assumptions for pension and retiree medical expense are as follows:       
    Based on our assumptions, we expect our pension and retiree medical expenses to increase in 2012
primarily driven by lower discount rates, partially offset by expected asset returns on contributions and changes to other actuarial assumptions.        Sensitivity of Assumptions        A decrease in the discount rate or in
the expected rate of return assumptions would increase pension expense. The estimated impact of a 25-basis-point decrease in the discount rate on 2012 pension expense is an increase of approximately $62 million. The estimated impact on 2012 pension
expense of a 25-basis-point decrease in the expected rate of return is an increase of approximately $31 million.      See Note 7
for information about the sensitivity of our retiree medical cost assumptions.        Funding     
  We make contributions to pension trusts maintained to provide plan benefits for certain pension plans. These contributions are made in
accordance with applicable tax regulations that provide for current tax deductions for our contributions and taxation to the employee only upon receipt of plan benefits. Generally, we do not fund our pension plans when our contributions would not be
currently tax deductible. As our retiree medical plans are not subject to regulatory funding requirements, we generally fund these plans on a pay-as-you-go basis, although we periodically review available options to make additional contributions
toward these benefits.   
         46   

Table of Contents  

   Our pension contributions for 2011 were $239 million, of which $61 million was
discretionary. Our retiree medical contributions for 2011 were $110 million, none of which was discretionary.      In 2012, we
expect to make pension and retiree medical contributions of approximately $1.3 billion, with up to approximately $1 billion expected to be discretionary. Our cash payments for retiree medical benefits are estimated to be approximately $124 million
in 2012. Our pension and retiree medical contributions are subject to change as a result of many factors, such as changes in interest rates, deviations between actual and expected asset returns and changes in tax or other benefit laws. For estimated
future benefit payments, including our pay-as-you-go payments as well as those from trusts, see Note 7.       OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS
       Items Affecting Comparability       The year-over-year comparisons of our financial results are affected by the following items:       
 
         47   

Table of Contents  

     53  rd    Week         In 2011, we had an additional week of results (53   rd    week). Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December, resulting in an additional week of results every five or six years. The 53   rd    week increased 2011 net revenue by $623 million and operating profit by $109 million ($64 million after-tax or $0.04
per share).        Mark-to-Market Net Impact        We centrally manage commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. These commodity derivatives include metals, energy and agricultural products. Certain of these commodity derivatives do not qualify
for hedge accounting treatment and are marked to market with the resulting gains and losses recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected in division results when the divisions take delivery of the
underlying commodity. Therefore, the divisions realize the economic effects of the derivative without experiencing any resulting mark-to-market volatility, which remains in corporate unallocated expenses.   
  In 2011, we recognized $102 million ($71 million after-tax or $0.04 per share) of mark-to-market net losses on commodity hedges in
corporate unallocated expenses.      In 2010, we recognized $91 million ($58 million after-tax or $0.04 per share) of
mark-to-market net gains on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses.      In 2009, we recognized $274 million ($173
million after-tax or $0.11 per share) of mark-to-market net gains on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses.        Restructuring
and Impairment Charges        In 2011, we incurred restructuring charges of $383 million ($286 million after-tax or $0.18 per
share) in conjunction with our multi-year productivity plan (Productivity Plan), including $76 million recorded in the FLNA segment, $18 million recorded in the QFNA segment, $48 million recorded in the LAF segment, $81 million recorded in the PAB
segment, $77 million recorded in the Europe segment, $9 million recorded in the AMEA segment and $74 million recorded in corporate unallocated expenses. The Productivity Plan includes actions in every aspect of our business that we believe will
strengthen our complementary food, snack and beverage businesses by leveraging new technologies and processes across PepsiCo s operations, go-to-market and information systems; heightening the focus on best practice sharing across the globe;
consolidating manufacturing, warehouse and sales facilities; and implementing simplified organization structures, with wider spans of control and fewer layers of management. The Productivity Plan is expected to enhance PepsiCo s
cost-competitiveness, provide a source of funding for future brand-building and innovation initiatives, and serve as a financial cushion for potential macroeconomic uncertainty beyond 2012. As a result, we expect to incur pre-tax charges of
approximately $910 million, $383 million of which was reflected in our 2011 results, approximately $425 million of which will be reflected in our 2012 results and the balance of which will be reflected in our 2013, 2014 and 2015 results. These
charges will be comprised of approximately $500 million of severance and other employee-related costs; approximately $325 million for other costs, including consulting-related costs and the termination of leases and other contracts; and
approximately $85 million for asset impairments (all non-cash) resulting from plant closures and related actions. These charges resulted in cash expenditures of $30 million in 2011, and we anticipate approximately $550 million of related cash
expenditures during 2012, with the   
         48   

Table of Contents  

balance of approximately $175 million of related cash expenditures in 2013 through 2015. The Productivity Plan will be substantially completed by the end of 2012 with incremental productivity
initiatives continuing through the end of 2015.      In 2009, we incurred charges of $36 million ($29 million after-tax or $0.02
per share) in conjunction with our Productivity for Growth program that began in 2008. The program included actions in all divisions of the business, including the closure of six plants, to increase cost competitiveness across the supply chain,
upgrade and streamline our product portfolio, and simplify the organization for more effective and timely decision-making. This program was completed in the second quarter of 2009.        Gain on Previously Held Equity Interests        In 2010, in connection
with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, we recorded a gain on our previously held equity interests of $958 million ($0.60 per share), comprising $735 million which was non-taxable and recorded in bottling equity income and $223 million related to the
reversal of deferred tax liabilities associated with these previously held equity interests.        Merger and Integration Charges
       In 2011, we incurred merger and integration charges of $329 million ($271 million after-tax or $0.17 per share)
related to our acquisitions of PBG, PAS and WBD, including $112 million recorded in the PAB segment, $123 million recorded in the Europe segment, $78 million recorded in corporate unallocated expenses and $16 million recorded in interest expense.
These charges also include closing costs and advisory fees related to our acquisition of WBD.      In 2010, we incurred merger and
integration charges of $799 million related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, as well as advisory fees in connection with our acquisition of WBD. $467 million of these charges were recorded in the PAB segment, $111 million recorded in the Europe
segment, $191 million recorded in corporate unallocated expenses and $30 million recorded in interest expense. The merger and integration charges related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS were incurred to help create a more fully integrated supply
chain and go-to-market business model, to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the distribution of our brands and to enhance our revenue growth. These charges also include closing costs, one-time financing costs and advisory fees related to
our acquisitions of PBG and PAS. In addition, we recorded $9 million of merger-related charges, representing our share of the respective merger costs of PBG and PAS, in bottling equity income. In total, the above charges had an after-tax impact of
$648 million or $0.40 per share.      In 2009, we incurred $50 million of merger-related charges, as well as an additional $11
million of merger-related charges, representing our share of the respective merger costs of PBG and PAS, recorded in bottling equity income. In total, these charges had an after-tax impact of $44 million or $0.03 per share.   
    Inventory Fair Value Adjustments        In 2011, we recorded $46 million ($28 million after-tax or $0.02 per share) of incremental costs in cost of sales related to fair value adjustments to the acquired inventory included in WBD s balance
sheet at the acquisition date and hedging contracts included in PBG s and PAS s balance sheets at the acquisition date.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

   In 2010, we recorded $398 million ($333 million after-tax or $0.21 per share) of
incremental costs related to fair value adjustments to the acquired inventory and other related hedging contracts included in PBG s and PAS s balance sheets at the acquisition date. Substantially all of these costs were recorded in cost of
sales.        Venezuela Currency Devaluation        As of the beginning of our 2010 fiscal year, we recorded a one-time $120 million net charge related to our change to hyperinflationary accounting for our Venezuelan businesses and the related devaluation
of the bolivar. $129 million of this net charge was recorded in corporate unallocated expenses, with the balance (income of $9 million) recorded in our PAB segment. In total, this net charge had an after-tax impact of $120 million or $0.07 per
share.        Asset Write-Off        In 2010, we recorded a $145 million charge ($92 million after-tax or $0.06 per share) related to a change in scope of one release in our ongoing migration to SAP software. This change was driven, in part,
by a review of our North America systems strategy following our acquisitions of PBG and PAS. This change does not impact our overall commitment to continue our implementation of SAP across our global operations over the next few years.   
    Foundation Contribution        In 2010, we made a $100 million ($64 million after-tax or $0.04 per share) contribution to The PepsiCo Foundation, Inc., in order to fund charitable and social programs over the next several years. This
contribution was recorded in corporate unallocated expenses.        Debt Repurchase     
  In 2010, we paid $672 million in a cash tender offer to repurchase $500 million (aggregate principal amount) of our 7.90% senior unsecured
notes maturing in 2018. As a result of this debt repurchase, we recorded a $178 million charge to interest expense ($114 million after-tax or $0.07 per share), primarily representing the premium paid in the tender offer.   
    Non-GAAP Measures     
  Certain measures contained in this Form 10-K are financial measures that are adjusted for items affecting comparability (see  Items
Affecting Comparability  for a detailed list and description of each of these items), as well as, in certain instances, adjusted for foreign currency. These measures are not in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
Items adjusted for currency assume foreign currency exchange rates used for translation based on the rates in effect for the comparable prior-year period. In order to compute our constant currency results, we multiply or divide, as appropriate, our
current year U.S. dollar results by the current year average foreign exchange rates and then multiply or divide, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior year average foreign exchange rates. We believe investors should consider these non-GAAP
measures in evaluating our results as they are more indicative of our ongoing performance and with how management evaluates our operational results and trends. These measures are not, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for U.S. GAAP reporting
measures.   
         50   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations   Consolidated Review    
  In the discussions of net revenue and operating profit below,  effective net pricing  reflects the year-over-year impact of discrete
pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in different package sizes and in different countries. Additionally, acquisitions and divestitures reflect all mergers and acquisitions activity, including
the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and changes in ownership or control in consolidated subsidiaries and nonconsolidated equity investees.   
    Servings        Since
our divisions each use different measures of physical unit volume (i.e., kilos, gallons, pounds and case sales), a common servings metric is necessary to reflect our consolidated physical unit volume. Our divisions  physical volume measures are
converted into servings based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines for single-serving sizes of our products.      In
2011, total servings increased 6% compared to 2010. Excluding the impact of the 53   rd    week, total servings increased 5% compared to 2010. In 2010, total servings increased 7% compared to 2009. 2011 servings growth reflects an adjustment to the base year (2010) for divestitures that
occurred in 2011, as applicable.        Total Net Revenue and Operating Profit     
   
     n/m represents year-over-year changes that are not meaningful.    
         51   

Table of Contents  

   2011      On a reported basis, total operating profit increased 16% and operating margin increased 0.1 percentage points. Operating profit growth was primarily driven by the net revenue growth, partially offset by
higher commodity costs. Items affecting comparability (see  Items Affecting Comparability ) contributed 10 percentage points to the total operating profit growth and 1.2 percentage points to the total operating margin increase.   
  2010      On a reported basis,
total operating profit increased 4% and operating margin decreased 4.2 percentage points. Operating profit performance was impacted by items affecting comparability (see  Items Affecting Comparability ), which reduced operating profit by
21 percentage points and contributed 2.9 percentage points to the total operating margin decline. Operating profit performance also reflects the incremental operating results from our acquisitions of PBG and PAS.   
         52   

Table of Contents  

     Other Consolidated Results     

*  
  See  Non-GAAP Measures      

**  
  Does not sum due to rounding     
         53   

Table of Contents  

   Prior to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS on February 26, 2010, we had noncontrolling
interests in each of these bottlers and consequently included our share of their net income in bottling equity income. Upon consummation of the acquisitions in the first quarter of 2010, we began to consolidate the results of these bottlers and
recorded a $735 million gain in bottling equity income associated with revaluing our previously held equity interests in PBG and PAS to fair value.      2011      Bottling equity income decreased $735 million, reflecting the gain in the
prior year on our previously held equity interests in connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS.      Net interest expense
decreased $36 million, primarily reflecting interest expense in the prior year in connection with our cash tender offer to repurchase debt in 2010, partially offset by higher average debt balances in 2011.   
  The reported tax rate increased 3.8 percentage points compared to 2010, primarily reflecting the prior year non-taxable gain and reversal
of deferred taxes attributable to our previously held equity interests in connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS.   
  Net income attributable to PepsiCo increased 2% and net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share increased 3%. Items affecting
comparability (see  Items Affecting Comparability ) decreased net income attributable to PepsiCo by 3 percentage points and net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share by 3.5 percentage points.   
  2010      Bottling equity income
increased $370 million, primarily reflecting the gain on our previously held equity interests in connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, partially offset by the consolidation of the related financial results of the acquired bottlers.
     Net interest expense increased $505 million, primarily reflecting higher average debt balances, interest expense incurred in
connection with our cash tender offer to repurchase debt, and bridge and term financing costs in connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS. These increases were partially offset by lower average rates on our debt balances.   
  The reported tax rate decreased 3.0 percentage points compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting the impact of our acquisitions of
PBG and PAS, which includes the reversal of deferred taxes attributable to our previously held equity interests in PBG and PAS, as well as the favorable resolution of certain tax matters in 2010.   
  Net income attributable to PepsiCo increased 6% and net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share increased 4%. Items affecting
comparability (see  Items Affecting Comparability ) decreased net income attributable to PepsiCo and net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share by 8 percentage points.   
         54   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations   Division Review    
  The results and discussions below are based on how our Chief Executive Officer monitors the performance of our divisions. Accordingly,
2011 volume growth measures reflect an adjustment to the base year (2010) for divestitures that occurred in 2011. See  Items Affecting Comparability  for a discussion of items to consider when evaluating our results and related
information regarding non-GAAP measures.       

(a)  
    Excludes the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. In certain instances, volume growth varies from the amounts disclosed in the following
divisional discussions due to nonconsolidated joint venture volume, and, for our beverage businesses, temporary timing differences between BCS and CSE. Our net revenue excludes nonconsolidated joint venture volume, and, for our beverage businesses,
is based on CSE.      

(b)  
    Includes the year-over-year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in
different package sizes and in different countries.      

(c)  
    Amounts may not sum due to rounding.      

*  
    It is impractical to separately determine and quantify the impact of our acquisitions of PBG and PAS from changes in our pre-existing beverage
business since we now manage these businesses as an integrated system.      
         55   

Table of Contents  

    Frito-Lay North America    

*   
  See  Non-GAAP Measures      

**  
  Does not sum due to rounding        2011   
  Net revenue increased 6% and pound volume grew 3%. The volume growth primarily reflects double-digit growth in our Sabra joint venture and
in variety packs, as well as mid-single-digit growth in trademark Doritos, Cheetos and Ruffles. These gains were partially offset by a double-digit decline in trademark SunChips. Net revenue growth also benefited from effective net pricing. The
53   rd    week contributed 2 percentage points to both net
revenue and volume growth.      Operating profit grew 7%, primarily reflecting the net revenue growth. Restructuring charges
reduced operating profit growth by 2 percentage points and were offset by the 53   rd    week, which contributed 2 percentage points to operating profit growth.      2010   
  Pound volume decreased 1%, primarily due to the overlap of the 2009  20% More Free  promotion, as well as a double-digit decline
in SunChips, partially offset by mid-single-digit growth in trademark Lay s. Net revenue grew 1%, primarily reflecting mid-single-digit revenue growth in trademark Lay s, double-digit revenue growth in variety packs and high-single-digit
revenue growth in trademark Ruffles. These gains were partially offset by a double-digit revenue decline in SunChips and a mid-single-digit revenue decline in Tostitos. Foreign currency contributed 1 percentage point to the net revenue growth.
     Operating profit grew 9%, reflecting lower commodity costs, primarily cooking oil.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

    Quaker Foods North America    

*  
  See  Non-GAAP Measures      

**  
  Does not sum due to rounding        2011   
  Net revenue was flat and volume declined 5%. The volume decline primarily reflects double-digit volume declines in ready-to-eat cereals
and Chewy granola bars, as well as a mid-single-digit decline in Aunt Jemima syrup and mix. The impact of positive net pricing, driven primarily by price increases taken in the fourth quarter of 2010, was partially offset by negative mix. Favorable
foreign currency contributed nearly 1 percentage point to the net revenue performance. The 53   rd    week positively contributed almost 2 percentage points to both the net revenue and volume performance.      Operating profit grew 8%, primarily reflecting the favorable effective net pricing, partially offset by the volume declines. Gains on the divestiture of a business and the sale of a distribution center
increased operating profit growth by 4 percentage points, and a change in accounting methodology for inventory contributed 2 percentage points to operating profit growth (see Note 1). Restructuring charges reduced operating profit growth by over 2
percentage points and were mostly offset by the 53   rd    week,
which contributed 2 percentage points to operating profit growth.   
         57   

Table of Contents  

   2010      Net revenue declined 1% and volume was flat. Low-single-digit volume declines in Oatmeal and ready-to-eat cereals were mostly offset by high-single-digit growth in Chewy granola bars. Unfavorable mix and
net pricing contributed to the net revenue decline. Favorable foreign currency positively contributed 1 percentage point to net revenue performance.      Operating profit declined 5%, primarily reflecting the net revenue performance, as well as insurance settlement recoveries recorded in the prior year related to the Cedar Rapids flood, which negatively
impacted operating profit performance by over 2 percentage points.       Latin America Foods    

*  
  See  Non-GAAP Measures         2011
     Volume increased 5%, primarily reflecting mid-single-digit increases in Brazil (excluding the impact of an acquisition in the
fourth quarter) and at Gamesa in Mexico. Additionally, Sabritas in Mexico was up slightly. Acquisitions contributed 1 percentage point to the volume growth.      Net revenue increased 13%, primarily reflecting effective net pricing and the volume growth. Favorable foreign currency contributed 2 percentage points to net revenue growth. Acquisitions and divestitures
had a nominal impact on the net revenue growth rate.      Operating profit grew 7%, driven by the net revenue growth, partially
offset by higher commodity costs. Acquisitions and divestitures, which included a gain from the sale of a fish business in Brazil, contributed nearly 4 percentage points to operating profit growth. Restructuring charges reduced operating profit
growth by 5 percentage points.   
         58   

Table of Contents  

   2010      Volume increased 4%, reflecting mid-single-digit increases at Sabritas in Mexico and Brazil. Additionally, Gamesa in Mexico grew at a low-single-digit rate.   
  Net revenue increased 11%, primarily reflecting favorable effective net pricing and the volume growth. Net revenue growth reflected 1
percentage point of favorable foreign currency, which was net of a 6-percentage-point unfavorable impact from Venezuela.   
  Operating profit grew 11%, primarily reflecting the net revenue growth. Unfavorable foreign currency reduced operating profit growth
slightly, as an 8-percentage-point unfavorable impact from Venezuela was offset by favorable foreign currency in other markets.       PepsiCo
Americas Beverages        

*  
  See  Non-GAAP Measures      

**  
  Does not sum due to rounding     
         59   

Table of Contents  

   2011      Volume increased 2%, primarily reflecting a 3% increase in Latin America volume, as well as volume from incremental brands related to our DPSG manufacturing and distribution agreement, which contributed 1
percentage point to volume growth. North America volume, excluding the impact of the incremental DPSG volume, increased slightly, as a 4% increase in non-carbonated beverage volume was partially offset by a 2% decline in CSD volume. The
non-carbonated beverage volume growth primarily reflected a double-digit increase in Gatorade sports drinks. The
53   rd    week contributed 1 percentage point to volume growth.
     Net revenue increased 10%, primarily reflecting the incremental finished goods revenue related to our acquisitions of PBG and
PAS. Favorable foreign currency contributed nearly 1 percentage point to net revenue growth and the 53   rd    week contributed over 1 percentage point to net revenue growth.      Reported
operating profit increased 18%, primarily reflecting the items affecting comparability in the above table (see  Items Affecting Comparability ). Excluding these items, operating profit decreased 4%, mainly driven by higher commodity costs
and higher selling and distribution costs, partially offset by the net revenue growth. Operating profit performance also benefited from the impact of certain insurance adjustments and more-favorable settlements of promotional spending accruals in
the current year, which collectively contributed 2 percentage points to the reported operating profit growth. The net impact of the divestiture of our Mexico beverage business in the fourth quarter contributed 1 percentage point to reported
operating profit growth and included a one-time gain associated with the contribution of this business to form a joint venture with both Grupo Embotelladoras Unidas S.A.B. de C.V. and Empresas Polar.   
  2010      Volume increased 10%,
primarily reflecting volume from incremental brands related to our acquisition of PBG s operations in Mexico, which contributed over 6 percentage points to volume growth, as well as incremental volume related to our DPSG manufacturing and
distribution agreement, entered into in connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, which contributed over 5 percentage points to volume growth. North America volume, excluding the impact of the incremental DPSG volume, declined 1%, driven by a
3% decline in CSD volume, partially offset by a 1% increase in non-carbonated beverage volume. The non-carbonated beverage volume growth primarily reflected a mid-single-digit increase in Gatorade sports drinks and a high-single-digit increase in
Lipton ready-to-drink teas, mostly offset by mid-single-digit declines in our base Aquafina water and Tropicana businesses.   
  Net revenue increased 102%, primarily reflecting the incremental finished goods revenue related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS.
     Reported operating profit increased 28%, primarily reflecting the incremental operating results from our acquisitions of PBG
and PAS, partially offset by the items affecting comparability in the above table (see  Items Affecting Comparability ). Excluding the items affecting comparability, operating profit increased 64%. Unfavorable foreign currency reduced
operating profit performance by 4 percentage points, driven primarily by a 6-percentage-point unfavorable impact from Venezuela.   
         60   

Table of Contents  

    Europe        

*  
  See  Non-GAAP Measures      

**  
  Does not sum due to rounding        2011   
  Snacks volume grew 35%, primarily reflecting our acquisition of WBD, which contributed 31 percentage points to volume growth. Double-digit
growth in Turkey and South Africa and high-single-digit growth in Russia (ex-WBD) was partially offset by a mid-single-digit decline in Spain. Additionally, Walkers in the United Kingdom experienced low-single-digit growth.   
  Beverage volume increased 21%, primarily reflecting our acquisition of WBD, which contributed 20 percentage points to volume growth, and
incremental brands related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, which contributed nearly 1 percentage point to volume growth. A double-digit increase in Turkey and mid-single-digit increases in the United Kingdom and France were offset by a
high-single-digit decline in Russia (ex-WBD).      Net revenue grew 41%, primarily reflecting our acquisition of WBD, which
contributed 29 percentage points to net revenue growth, and the incremental finished goods revenue related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS. Favorable foreign currency contributed 3 percentage points to net revenue growth.   
         61   

Table of Contents  

   Reported operating profit increased 15%, primarily reflecting the net revenue growth,
partially offset by higher commodity costs. Our acquisition of WBD contributed 19 percentage points to the reported operating profit growth and reflected net charges of $56 million included in items affecting comparability in the above table (see
 Items Affecting Comparability ). Excluding the items affecting comparability, operating profit increased 18%. Favorable foreign currency contributed 4 percentage points to operating profit growth.   
  2010      Snacks volume increased
2%, reflecting high-single-digit growth in South Africa and Quaker in the United Kingdom, a double-digit increase in France and mid-single-digit increases in Russia and Turkey. These gains were partially offset by a double-digit decline in Romania
and a low-single-digit decline in Spain. Additionally, Walkers in the United Kingdom experienced low-single-digit growth.   
  Beverage volume increased 10%, reflecting double-digit increases in Russia and Turkey, high-single-digit growth in Poland and France and
a mid-single-digit increase in the United Kingdom. These gains were partially offset by a double-digit decline in Romania. Additionally, incremental brands related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS contributed 5 percentage points to the beverage
volume growth.      Net revenue grew 37%, primarily reflecting the incremental finished goods revenue related to our acquisitions
of PBG and PAS. Unfavorable foreign currency reduced net revenue growth by over 1 percentage point.      Operating profit grew
11%, primarily reflecting incremental operating results from our acquisitions of PBG and PAS. Operating profit growth was also adversely impacted by the items affecting comparability in the above table (see  Items Affecting
Comparability ). Excluding these items, operating profit increased 27%. Unfavorable foreign currency reduced operating profit growth by 1 percentage point.   
         62   

Table of Contents  

    Asia, Middle East   Africa    

*  
  See  Non-GAAP Measures      

**  
  Does not sum due to rounding        2011   
  Snacks volume grew 15%, reflecting broad-based increases driven by double-digit growth in India, China and the Middle East.   
  Beverage volume grew 5%, driven by double-digit growth in India and mid-single-digit growth in China and the Middle East. Acquisitions
had a nominal impact on the beverage volume growth rate.      Net revenue grew 17%, reflecting the volume growth and favorable
effective net pricing. Foreign currency contributed 2 percentage points to net revenue growth. Acquisitions had a nominal impact on net revenue growth.      Operating profit grew 25%, driven primarily by the net revenue growth, partially offset by higher commodity costs. Acquisitions and divestitures increased operating profit growth by 16 percentage points,
primarily as a result of a one-time gain associated with the sale of our investment in our franchise bottler in Thailand. Favorable foreign currency contributed 2.5 percentage points to the operating profit growth.   
  2010      Snacks volume grew 16%,
reflecting broad-based increases driven by double-digit growth in India, the Middle East and China, partially offset by a low-single-digit decline in Australia. Acquisitions contributed nearly 3 percentage points to the snacks volume growth.
     Beverage volume grew 7%, driven by double-digit growth in India and China, partially offset by a low-single-digit decline in
the Middle East. Acquisitions had a nominal impact on the beverage volume growth rate.   
         63   

Table of Contents  

   Net revenue grew 19%, reflecting the volume growth and favorable effective net pricing.
Foreign currency contributed 3 percentage points to the net revenue growth. The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures contributed 1 percentage point to the net revenue growth.   
  Operating profit grew 1%, driven primarily by the net revenue growth, partially offset by higher commodity costs and increased
investments in strategic markets. The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures reduced operating profit growth by 10 percentage points, primarily as a result of a one-time gain in the prior year associated with the contribution of our snacks
business in Japan to form a joint venture with Calbee Foods Company. Favorable foreign currency contributed over 3 percentage points to the operating profit growth and the absence of restructuring and impairment charges in the current year
contributed 2 percentage points.       Our Liquidity and Capital Resources    
  We believe that our cash generating capability and financial condition, together with our revolving credit facilities and other available
methods of debt financing (including long-term debt financing which, depending upon market conditions, we may use to replace a portion of our commercial paper borrowings), will be adequate to meet our operating, investing and financing needs.
However, there can be no assurance that volatility in the global capital and credit markets will not impair our ability to access these markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all. See Note 9 for a description of our credit facilities.
See also  Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.  in  Risk Factors  in Item 1A.      In addition, currency restrictions enacted by the government in Venezuela have impacted our ability to pay dividends outside of the country from our snack and beverage operations in Venezuela. As of
December 31, 2011, our operations in Venezuela comprised 8% of our cash and cash equivalents balance.      Furthermore, our
cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality. Working capital needs are impacted by weekly sales, which are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns, and generally
lowest in the first quarter. On a continuing basis, we consider various transactions to increase shareholder value and enhance our business results, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and share repurchases. These transactions may
result in future cash proceeds or payments.      The table below summarizes our cash activity:   

64   

Table of Contents  

     Operating Activities        During 2011, net cash provided by operating activities was $8.9 billion, compared to net cash provided of $8.4 billion in the prior year. The increase over the prior year primarily reflects the overlap of
discretionary pension contributions of $1.3 billion ($1.0 billion after-tax) in the prior year, partially offset by unfavorable working capital comparisons to the prior year.      During 2010, net cash provided by operating activities was $8.4 billion, compared to net cash provided of $6.8 billion in the prior year. The increase over the prior year primarily reflects the
incremental operating results from our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, as well as favorable working capital comparisons to the prior year.      Also see  Management Operating Cash Flow  below for certain other items impacting net cash provided by operating activities.        Investing Activities        During 2011, net cash used for investing
activities was $5.6 billion, primarily reflecting $3.3 billion for net capital spending and $2.4 billion of cash paid, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, in connection with our acquisition of WBD.   
  During 2010, net cash used for investing activities was $7.7 billion, primarily reflecting $3.2 billion for net capital spending, $2.8
billion of net cash paid in connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, and $0.9 billion of cash paid in connection with our manufacturing and distribution agreement with DPSG. We also paid $0.5 billion to acquire WBD American Depositary Shares
(ADS) in the open market.      We anticipate capital spending in 2012 of approximately $3.0 billion.   
    Financing Activities        During 2011, net cash used for financing activities was $5.1 billion, primarily reflecting the return of operating cash flow to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividend payments of $5.6
billion, our purchase of an additional $1.4 billion of WBD ordinary shares (including shares underlying ADSs) and our repurchase of certain WBD debt obligations of $0.8 billion, partially offset by net proceeds from long-term debt of $1.4 billion
and stock option proceeds of $0.9 billion.      During 2010, net cash provided by financing activities was $1.4 billion, primarily
reflecting proceeds from issuances of long-term debt of $6.5 billion, mostly in connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, and net proceeds from short-term borrowings of $2.5 billion. These increases were largely offset by the return of
operating cash flow to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividend payments of $8.0 billion.      We annually review
our capital structure with our Board, including our dividend policy and share repurchase activity. In the first quarter of 2012, our Board of Directors approved a 4% dividend increase, raising the dividend payable on our common stock, effective with
the dividend payable in June 2012, to $2.15 per share. We expect to repurchase approximately $3.0 billion of our common stock in 2012.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

     Management Operating Cash Flow     
  We focus on management operating cash flow as a key element in achieving maximum shareholder value, and it is the primary measure we use
to monitor cash flow performance. However, it is not a measure provided by accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Therefore, this measure is not, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for U.S. GAAP cash flow measures. Since net
capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending
when evaluating our cash from operating activities. Additionally, we consider certain items (included in the table below), in evaluating management operating cash flow. We believe investors should consider these items in evaluating our management
operating cash flow results.      The table below reconciles net cash provided by operating activities, as reflected in our cash
flow statement, to our management operating cash flow excluding the impact of the items below.       
    In 2011 and 2010, management operating cash flow was used primarily to repurchase shares and pay
dividends. In 2009, management operating cash flow was used primarily to pay dividends. We expect to continue to return management operating cash flow to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases while maintaining credit ratings that
provide us with ready access to global and capital credit markets. However, see  Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings.  in
 Risk Factors  in Item 1A. and  Our Business Risks  for certain factors that may impact our operating cash flows.      Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, could increase our future borrowing costs or impair our ability to access capital and
credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced
historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. See  Our Business Risks , Note 9 and  Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected
by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings.  in  Risk Factors  in Item 1A.   
         66   

Table of Contents  

     Credit Facilities and Long-Term Contractual Commitments     
  See Note 9 for a description of our credit facilities and long-term contractual commitments.   
    Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements        It is not our business practice to enter into off-balance-sheet arrangements, other than in the normal course of business. Additionally, we do not enter into off-balance-sheet transactions specifically
structured to provide income or tax benefits or to avoid recognizing or disclosing assets or liabilities. See Note 9.   
         67   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Income    
   PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries   
  Fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009      (in millions except per share amounts)       
 
   See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         68   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows    
   PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries   
  Fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009      (in millions)       

(Continued on following page)   

         69   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (continued)    
  PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries      Fiscal years
ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009      (in millions)         

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         70   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Balance Sheet    
   PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries   
  December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010   
  (in millions except per share amounts)       
 
   See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         71   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Equity    
   PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries   
  Fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009      (in millions)       

(Continued on following page)   
         72   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Equity (continued)    
   PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries   
  Fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009      (in millions)       
 
   See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         73   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
    Note 1   Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions    
     Basis of Presentation        Our financial statements include the consolidated accounts of PepsiCo, Inc. and the affiliates that we control. In addition, we include our share of the results of certain other affiliates using the
equity method based on our economic ownership interest, our ability to exercise significant influence over the operating or financial decisions of these affiliates or our ability to direct their economic resources. We do not control these other
affiliates, as our ownership in these other affiliates is generally less than 50%. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December, resulting in an additional week of results every
five or six years. In 2011, we had an additional week of results (53   rd    week).      On February 26, 2010, we completed our acquisitions of The Pepsi
Bottling Group, Inc. (PBG) and PepsiAmericas, Inc. (PAS). The results of the acquired companies in the U.S. and Canada are reflected in our consolidated results as of the acquisition date, and the international results of the acquired companies have
been reported as of the beginning of our second quarter of 2010, consistent with our monthly international reporting calendar. The results of the acquired companies in the U.S., Canada and Mexico are reported within our PAB segment, and the results
of the acquired companies in Europe, including Russia, are reported within our Europe segment. Prior to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, we recorded our share of equity income or loss from the acquired companies in bottling equity income in our
income statement. Our share of income or loss from other noncontrolled affiliates is reflected as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses. Additionally, in the first quarter of 2010, in connection with our acquisitions of PBG and
PAS, we recorded a gain on our previously held equity interests of $958 million, comprising $735 million which was non-taxable and recorded in bottling equity income and $223 million related to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities associated
with these previously held equity interests. See Notes 8 and 15 and for additional unaudited information on items affecting the comparability of our consolidated results, see  Items Affecting Comparability  in Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.      As of the beginning of our 2010 fiscal year, the results of
our Venezuelan businesses are reported under hyperinflationary accounting. See  Our Business Risks  and  Items Affecting Comparability  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.      In the first quarter of 2011, Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) changed its method of accounting for certain U.S.
inventories from the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method to the average cost method. This change is considered preferable by management as we believe that the average cost method of accounting for all U.S. foods inventories will improve our
financial reporting by better matching revenues and expenses and better reflecting the current value of inventory. In addition, the change from the LIFO method to the average cost method will enhance the comparability of QFNA s financial
results with our other   
         74   

Table of Contents  

food businesses, as well as with peer companies where the average cost method is widely used. The impact of this change on consolidated net income in the first quarter of 2011 was
approximately $9 million (or less than a penny per share). Prior periods were not restated as the impact of the change on previously issued financial statements was not considered material.   
  Raw materials, direct labor and plant overhead, as well as purchasing and receiving costs, costs directly related to production planning,
inspection costs and raw material handling facilities, are included in cost of sales. The costs of moving, storing and delivering finished product are included in selling, general and administrative expenses.   
  The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make
estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Estimates are used in determining, among other items, sales incentives accruals, tax reserves,
stock-based compensation, pension and retiree medical accruals, useful lives for intangible assets, and future cash flows associated with impairment testing for perpetual brands, goodwill and other long-lived assets. We evaluate our estimates on an
ongoing basis using our historical experience, as well as other factors we believe appropriate under the circumstances, such as current economic conditions, and adjust or revise our estimates as circumstances change. As future events and their
effect cannot be determined with precision, actual results could differ significantly from these estimates.      While our North
America results are reported on a weekly calendar basis, most of our international operations report on a monthly calendar basis. The following chart details our quarterly reporting schedule in 2011, reflecting the extra week in the fourth quarter
this year:       

Quarter   
      
    U.S. and Canada   
      
    International    

First Quarter   
      
  12 weeks  
      
  January, February   
 
    Second Quarter   
      
  12 weeks  
      
  March, April and May   
 
    Third Quarter   
      
  12 weeks  
      
  June, July and August   
 
    Fourth Quarter   
      
  17 weeks  
      
  September, October,   

November and December   
    See  Our Divisions  below and for additional unaudited information on items affecting the
comparability of our consolidated results, see  Items Affecting Comparability  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   
  Tabular dollars are in millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts reflect common per share amounts, assume dilution unless
noted, and are based on unrounded amounts. Certain reclassifications were made to prior years  amounts to conform to the 2011 presentation.   
         75   

Table of Contents  

     Our Divisions        We manufacture or use contract manufacturers, market and sell a variety of salty, convenient, sweet and grain-based snacks, carbonated and non-carbonated beverages, dairy products and other foods in over
200 countries and territories with our largest operations in North America (United States and Canada), Russia, Mexico and the United Kingdom. Division results are based on how our Chief Executive Officer assesses the performance of and allocates
resources to our divisions. For additional unaudited information on our divisions, see  Our Operations  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The accounting policies for the
divisions are the same as those described in Note 2, except for the following allocation methodologies:       

stock-based compensation expense;          

pension and retiree medical expense; and          

derivatives.      
   Stock-Based Compensation Expense       Our divisions are held accountable for stock-based compensation expense and, therefore, this expense is allocated to our divisions as an incremental employee compensation cost. The allocation of
stock-based compensation expense in 2011 was approximately 15% to FLNA, 2% to QFNA, 4% to LAF, 31% to PAB, 12% to Europe, 9% to AMEA and 27% to corporate unallocated expenses. We had similar allocations of stock-based compensation expense to our
divisions in 2010 and 2009. The expense allocated to our divisions excludes any impact of changes in our assumptions during the year which reflect market conditions over which division management has no control. Therefore, any variances between
allocated expense and our actual expense are recognized in corporate unallocated expenses.       Pension and Retiree Medical Expense
      Pension and retiree medical service costs measured at a fixed discount rate, as well as amortization of costs related to
certain pension plan amendments and gains and losses due to demographics, including salary experience, are reflected in division results for North American employees. Division results also include interest costs, measured at a fixed discount rate,
for retiree medical plans. Interest costs for the pension plans, pension asset returns and the impact of pension funding, and gains and losses other than those due to demographics, are all reflected in corporate unallocated expenses. In addition,
corporate unallocated expenses include the difference between the service costs measured at a fixed discount rate (included in division results as noted above) and the total service costs determined using the plans  discount rates as disclosed
in Note 7.       Derivatives       We centrally manage commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. These commodity derivatives include metals, energy and agricultural products. Certain of these commodity derivatives do not qualify
for hedge accounting treatment and are marked to   
         76   

Table of Contents  

market with the resulting gains and losses recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected in division results when the divisions take delivery of
the underlying commodity. Therefore, the divisions realize the economic effects of the derivative without experiencing any resulting mark-to-market volatility, which remains in corporate unallocated expenses. These derivatives hedge underlying
commodity price risk and were not entered into for speculative purposes.       

(a)  
  For information on the impact of restructuring, impairment and integration charges on our divisions, see Note 3.     

(b)  
  Change in net revenue in 2011 relates primarily to our acquisition of WBD.     

77   

Table of Contents  

     Corporate        Corporate includes costs of our corporate headquarters, centrally managed initiatives, such as our ongoing global business transformation initiative and research and development projects, unallocated
insurance and benefit programs, foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, certain commodity derivative gains and losses and certain other items.        Other Division Information         

(a)  
  Changes in total assets in 2011 relate primarily to our acquisition of WBD.     

(b)  
  Corporate assets consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, derivative instruments and property, plant and equipment.

78   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
    Long-lived assets represent property, plant and equipment, nonamortizable intangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and investments in
noncontrolled affiliates. These assets are reported in the country where they are primarily used.          

(b)  
    Changes in 2011 relate primarily to our acquisition of WBD.      

79   

Table of Contents  

Note 2   Our Significant Accounting Policies    
     Revenue Recognition        We recognize revenue upon shipment or delivery to our customers based on written sales terms that do not allow for a right of return. However, our policy for DSD and certain chilled products is to remove
and replace damaged and out-of-date products from store shelves to ensure that our consumers receive the product quality and freshness that they expect. Similarly, our policy for certain warehouse-distributed products is to replace damaged and
out-of-date products. Based on our experience with this practice, we have reserved for anticipated damaged and out-of-date products. For additional unaudited information on our revenue recognition and related policies, including our policy on bad
debts, see  Our Critical Accounting Policies  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We are exposed to concentration of credit risk by our customers, including Wal-Mart. In 2011,
Wal-Mart (including Sam s) represented approximately 11% of our total net revenue, including concentrate sales to our independent bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to Wal-Mart. We have not experienced credit issues with
these customers.        Sales Incentives and Other Marketplace Spending     
  We offer sales incentives and discounts through various programs to our customers and consumers. Sales incentives and discounts are
accounted for as a reduction of revenue and totaled $34.6 billion in 2011, $29.1 billion in 2010 and $12.9 billion in 2009. While most of these incentive arrangements have terms of no more than one year, certain arrangements, such as fountain
pouring rights, may extend beyond one year. Costs incurred to obtain these arrangements are recognized over the shorter of the economic or contractual life, as a reduction of revenue, and the remaining balances of $288 million as of
December 31, 2011 and $296 million as of December 25, 2010, are included in current assets and other assets on our balance sheet. For additional unaudited information on our sales incentives, see  Our Critical Accounting
Policies  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.      Other
marketplace spending, which includes the costs of advertising and other marketing activities, totaled $3.5 billion in 2011, $3.4 billion in 2010 and $2.8 billion in 2009 and is reported as selling, general and administrative expenses. Included in
these amounts were advertising expenses of $1.9 billion in 2011 and 2010 and $1.7 billion in 2009. Deferred advertising costs are not expensed until the year first used and consist of:   

media and personal service prepayments;          

promotional materials in inventory; and          

production costs of future media advertising.         Deferred advertising costs of $163 million and $158 million at year-end 2011 and 2010, respectively, are classified as prepaid expenses on our balance sheet.   
         80   

Table of Contents  

     Distribution Costs        Distribution costs, including the costs of shipping and handling activities, are reported as selling, general and administrative expenses. Shipping and handling expenses were $9.2 billion in 2011, $7.7
billion in 2010 and $5.6 billion in 2009.        Cash Equivalents     
  Cash equivalents are investments with original maturities of three months or less.   
    Software Costs     
  We capitalize certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer
software for internal use when both the preliminary project stage is completed and it is probable that the software will be used as intended. Capitalized software costs include only (i) external direct costs of materials and services utilized
in developing or obtaining computer software, (ii) compensation and related benefits for employees who are directly associated with the software project and (iii) interest costs incurred while developing internal-use computer software.
Capitalized software costs are included in property, plant and equipment on our balance sheet and amortized on a straight-line basis when placed into service over the estimated useful lives of the software, which approximate five to ten years.
Software amortization totaled $156 million in 2011, $137 million in 2010 and $119 million in 2009. Net capitalized software and development costs were $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2011 and $1.1 billion as of December 25, 2010.
       Commitments and Contingencies        We are subject to various claims and contingencies related to lawsuits, certain taxes and environmental matters, as well as commitments under contractual and other commercial obligations. We recognize
liabilities for contingencies and commitments when a loss is probable and estimable. For additional information on our commitments, see Note 9.   
    Research and Development        We engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth in these activities and to drive innovation globally. These activities principally involve the
development of new products, improvement in the quality of existing products, improvement and modernization of production processes, and the development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and
proposed product lines. Consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. Research and development costs were $525 million in 2011, $488 million in 2010 and $414 million in 2009 and are reported
within selling, general and administrative expenses.   
         81   

Table of Contents  

     Other Significant Accounting Policies     
  Our other significant accounting policies are disclosed as follows:   

Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets    Note 4, and for additional unaudited information on goodwill and other intangible
assets, see  Our Critical Accounting Policies  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.      

Income Taxes    Note 5, and for additional unaudited information, see  Our Critical Accounting Policies  in Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.          

Stock-Based Compensation    Note 6.          

Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans    Note 7, and for additional unaudited information, see  Our Critical Accounting
Policies  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.          

Financial Instruments    Note 10, and for additional unaudited information, see  Our Business Risks  in Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.           Recent Accounting Pronouncements
       In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended its accounting guidance on the consolidation of
variable interest entities (VIE). Among other things, the new guidance requires a qualitative rather than a quantitative assessment to determine the primary beneficiary of a VIE based on whether the entity (1) has the power to direct matters
that most significantly impact the activities of the VIE and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In addition, the amended guidance requires an
ongoing reconsideration of the primary beneficiary. The provisions of this guidance were effective as of the beginning of our 2010 fiscal year, and the adoption did not have a material impact on our financial statements.   
  In the second quarter of 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) was signed into law. The PPACA changes the tax
treatment related to an existing retiree drug subsidy (RDS) available to sponsors of retiree health benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to the benefits under Medicare Part D. As a result of the PPACA, RDS
payments will effectively become taxable in tax years beginning in 2013, by requiring the amount of the subsidy received to be offset against our deduction for health care expenses. The provisions of the PPACA required us to record the effect of
this tax law change beginning in our second quarter of 2010, and consequently we recorded a one-time related tax charge of $41 million in the second quarter of 2010. We continue to evaluate the longer-term impacts of this legislation.   
  In June 2011, the FASB amended its accounting guidance on the presentation of comprehensive income in financial statements to improve the
comparability, consistency and transparency of financial reporting and to increase the prominence of items that are recorded in other comprehensive income. The new accounting guidance requires entities
  
         82   

Table of Contents  

to report components of comprehensive income in either (1) a continuous statement of comprehensive income or (2) two separate but consecutive statements. In December 2011, the FASB
approved a deferral of the effective date of certain requirements related to the presentation and disclosure of reclassification adjustments from other comprehensive income to net income. The provisions of the retained guidance are effective as of
the beginning of our 2012 fiscal year. We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our financial statements.      In September 2011, the FASB issued new accounting guidance that permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit s fair value is less
than its carrying amount before applying the two-step goodwill impairment test. An entity would continue to perform the historical first step of the impairment test if it fails the qualitative assessment, while no further analysis would be required
if it passes. The provisions of the new guidance are effective for our 2012 goodwill impairment test. We are currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on our financial statements.   
  In September 2011, the FASB amended its guidance regarding the disclosure requirements for employers participating in multiemployer
pension and other postretirement benefit plans (multiemployer plans) to improve transparency and increase awareness of the commitments and risks involved with participation in multiemployer plans. The new accounting guidance requires employers
participating in multiemployer plans to provide additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures to provide users with more detailed information regarding an employer s involvement in multiemployer plans. The provisions of this new guidance
were effective as of the beginning of our 2011 fiscal year. We have reviewed our level of participation in multiemployer plans and determined that the impact of adopting this new guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements.
     In December 2011, the FASB issued new disclosure requirements that are intended to enhance current disclosures on offsetting
financial assets and liabilities. The new disclosures require an entity to disclose both gross and net information about financial instruments eligible for offset on the balance sheet and instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar
to a master netting arrangement. The provisions of the new disclosure requirements are effective as of the beginning of our 2014 fiscal year. We are currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on our financial statements.   
    Note 3   Restructuring, Impairment and Integration Charges    
   In 2011, we incurred restructuring charges of $383 million ($286 million after-tax or $0.18 per share) in conjunction
with our multi-year Productivity Plan. All of these charges were recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. The Productivity Plan includes actions in every aspect of our business, that we believe will strengthen our complementary
food, snack and beverage businesses by leveraging new technologies and processes across PepsiCo s operations, go-to-market and information systems; heightening the focus on best practice sharing across the globe; consolidating manufacturing,
warehouse and sales facilities; and implementing simplified organization   
         83   

Table of Contents  

structures, with wider spans of control and fewer layers of management. The Productivity Plan is expected to enhance PepsiCo s cost-competitiveness, provide a source of funding for future
brand-building and innovation initiatives, and serve as a financial cushion for potential macroeconomic uncertainty beyond 2012.      A summary of our Productivity Plan charges in 2011 is as follows:       
    A summary of our Productivity Plan activity in 2011 is as follows:   
   
    In 2011, we incurred merger and integration charges of $329 million ($271 million after-tax or $0.17 per
share) related to our acquisitions of PBG, PAS and WBD, including $112 million recorded in the PAB segment, $123 million recorded in the Europe segment, $78 million recorded in corporate unallocated expenses and $16 million recorded in interest
expense. All of these net charges, other than the interest expense portion, were recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. These charges also include closing costs and advisory fees related to our acquisition of WBD. Substantially
all cash payments related to the above charges were made by the end of 2011.      In 2010, we incurred merger and integration
charges of $799 million related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, as well as advisory fees in connection with our acquisition of WBD. $467 million of these charges were recorded in the PAB segment, $111 million recorded in the Europe segment, $191
million recorded in corporate unallocated expenses and $30 million recorded in interest expense. All of these charges, other than the interest expense portion, were recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. The merger and integration
charges related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS were incurred to help create a more fully integrated supply chain and go-to-market business model, to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the distribution of our brands and to enhance
  
         84   

Table of Contents  

our revenue growth. These charges also include closing costs, one-time financing costs and advisory fees related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS. In addition, we recorded $9 million of
merger related charges, representing our share of the respective merger costs of PBG and PAS, in bottling equity income. Substantially all cash payments related to the above charges were made by the end of 2011. In total, these charges had an
after-tax impact of $648 million or $0.40 per share.      A summary of our merger and integration activity is as follows:
      
    In 2009, we incurred $50 million of charges related to the merger of PBG and PAS, of which substantially
all was paid in 2009. In 2009, we also incurred charges of $36 million ($29 million after-tax or $0.02 per share) in conjunction with our Productivity for Growth program that began in 2008. The program included actions in all divisions of the
business, including the closure of six plants, to increase cost competitiveness across the supply chain, upgrade and streamline our product portfolio, and simplify the organization for more effective and timely decision-making. These charges were
recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. This program was completed in the second quarter of 2009 and substantially all cash payments related to these charges were made by the end of 2010.   
         85   

Table of Contents  

   A summary of our Productivity for Growth charges in 2009 is as follows:   
   
    A summary of our Productivity for Growth activity is as follows:   

86   

Table of Contents  

Note 4   Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets    
    
    Property, plant and equipment is recorded at historical cost. Depreciation and amortization are
recognized on a straight-line basis over an asset s estimated useful life. Land is not depreciated and construction in progress is not depreciated until ready for service. Amortization of intangible assets for each of the next five years, based
on existing intangible assets as of December 31, 2011 and using average 2011 foreign exchange rates, is expected to be $122 million in 2012, $113 million in 2013, $98 million in 2014, $89 million in 2015 and $81 million in 2016.   
  Depreciable and amortizable assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating or macroeconomic
environment. In these circumstances, if an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on discounted future cash flows. Useful lives are periodically evaluated
to determine whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate the need for revision. For additional unaudited information on our policies for amortizable brands, see  Our Critical Accounting Policies  in Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.        Nonamortizable Intangible Assets     
  Perpetual brands and goodwill are assessed for impairment at least annually. If the carrying amount of a perpetual brand exceeds its fair
value, as determined by its discounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. We did not recognize any impairment charges for goodwill in the years   
         87   

Table of Contents  

presented. In connection with the merger and integration of WBD in 2011, we recorded a $14 million impairment charge for discontinued brands. We did not recognize any impairment charges for other
nonamortizable intangible assets in 2010. The change in the book value of nonamortizable intangible assets is as follows:       

(a)  
    Net increases in 2010 relate primarily to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS.      

(b)  
    Includes $900 million related to our upfront payment to DPSG to manufacture and distribute Dr Pepper and certain other DPSG products.

(c)  
    Net increases in 2011 relate primarily to our acquisition of WBD.      
         88   

Table of Contents  

Note 5   Income Taxes    

89   

Table of Contents  

For additional unaudited information on our income tax policies, including our reserves for income taxes,
see  Our Critical Accounting Policies  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   
    Reserves        A
number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for which we have established a reserve, is audited and finally resolved. The number of years with open tax audits varies depending on the tax jurisdiction. Our major taxing jurisdictions and
the related open tax audits are as follows:       

Mexico   audits have been completed for all taxable years through 2005. We are currently under audit for 2006;      

United Kingdom   audits have been completed for all taxable years through 2007;      

Canada   domestic audits have been substantially completed for all taxable years through 2007. International audits have been completed for all
taxable years through 2005; and          

Russia   audits have been substantially completed for all taxable years through 2008.      
  While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, we believe that our
reserves reflect the probable outcome of known tax contingencies. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and circumstances. Settlement of any particular issue would usually require the use of cash.
Favorable resolution would be recognized as a reduction to our annual tax rate in the year of resolution. For further unaudited information on the impact of the resolution of open tax issues, see  Other Consolidated Results.    
         90   

Table of Contents  

   As of December 31, 2011, the total gross amount of reserves for income taxes, reported
in other liabilities, was $2,167 million. Any prospective adjustments to these reserves will be recorded as an increase or decrease to our provision for income taxes and would impact our effective tax rate. In addition, we accrue interest related to
reserves for income taxes in our provision for income taxes and any associated penalties are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. The gross amount of interest accrued, reported in other liabilities, was $660 million as of
December 31, 2011, of which $90 million was recognized in 2011. The gross amount of interest accrued was $570 million as of December 25, 2010, of which $135 million was recognized in 2010.   
  A rollforward of our reserves for all federal, state and foreign tax jurisdictions, is as follows:   
   
      Carryforwards and Allowances        Operating loss carryforwards totaling $10.0 billion at year-end 2011 are being carried forward in a number of foreign and state jurisdictions where we are permitted to use tax operating losses from prior
periods to reduce future taxable income. These operating losses will expire as follows: $0.1 billion in 2012, $8.2 billion between 2013 and 2031 and $1.7 billion may be carried forward indefinitely. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred
tax assets if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.        Undistributed International Earnings        As of December 31, 2011,
we had approximately $34.1 billion of undistributed international earnings. We intend to continue to reinvest earnings outside the U.S. for the foreseeable future and, therefore, have not recognized any U.S. tax expense on these earnings.
  
    Note 6   Stock-Based Compensation    
   Our stock-based compensation program is designed to attract and retain employees while also aligning employees 
interests with the interests of our shareholders. Stock options and restricted stock units (RSU) are granted to employees under the shareholder-approved 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the only stock-based plan under which we currently grant
stock options and   
         91   

Table of Contents  

RSUs. Stock-based compensation expense was $343 million in 2011, $352 million in 2010 and $227 million in 2009. In 2011, $326 million was recorded as stock-based compensation expense, $13 million
was included in merger and integration charges and $4 million was included in restructuring charges. In 2010, $299 million was recorded as stock-based compensation expense and $53 million was included in merger and integration charges. $86 million
of the $352 million recorded in 2010 was related to the unvested acquisition-related grants described below. Income tax benefits related to stock-based compensation expense and recognized in earnings were $101 million in 2011, $89 million in 2010
and $67 million in 2009. At year-end 2011, 136 million shares were available for future stock-based compensation grants.   
  In connection with our acquisition of PBG in 2010, we issued 13.4 million stock options and 2.7 million RSUs at
weighted-average grant prices of $42.89 and $62.30, respectively, to replace previously held PBG equity awards. In connection with our acquisition of PAS in 2010, we issued 0.4 million stock options at a weighted-average grant price of $31.72
to replace previously held PAS equity awards. Our equity issuances included 8.3 million stock options and 0.6 million RSUs which were vested at the acquisition date and were included in the purchase price. The remaining 5.5 million
stock options and 2.1 million RSUs issued were unvested at the issuance date and are being amortized over their remaining vesting period, up to 3 years from the issuance date.   
  As a result of our annual benefits review in 2010, the Company approved certain changes to our benefits programs to remain market
competitive relative to other leading global companies. These changes included ending the Company s broad-based SharePower stock option program. Consequently, beginning in 2011, no new awards were granted under the SharePower program.
Outstanding SharePower awards from 2010 and earlier continue to vest and are exercisable according to the terms and conditions of the program. See Note 7 for additional information regarding other related changes.   
    Method of Accounting and Our Assumptions        We account for our employee stock options under the fair value method of accounting using a Black-Scholes valuation model to measure stock option expense at the date of grant. All stock option grants have
an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant and generally have a 10-year term. We do not backdate, reprice or grant stock-based compensation awards retroactively. Repricing of awards would require
shareholder approval under the LTIP.      The fair value of stock option grants is amortized to expense over the vesting period,
generally three years. Executives who are awarded long-term incentives based on their performance are generally offered the choice of stock options or RSUs. Executives who elect RSUs receive one RSU for every four stock options that would have
otherwise been granted. Senior officers do not have a choice and, through 2011, are granted 50% stock options and 50% performance-based RSUs.      Beginning in 2012, senior officers will be granted 60% market stock units and 40% long-term cash awards, each of which will be subject to pre-established performance targets. Vesting of RSU awards for
senior officers is contingent upon the achievement of pre-established performance targets approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. RSU expense is based on the fair value of PepsiCo stock on the date of grant and is amortized
over the vesting period, generally three years. Each RSU is settled in a share of our stock after the vesting period.   
         92   

Table of Contents  

   Our weighted-average Black-Scholes fair value assumptions are as follows:   
   
    The expected life is the period over which our employee groups are expected to hold their options. It is
based on our historical experience with similar grants. The risk-free interest rate is based on the expected U.S. Treasury rate over the expected life. Volatility reflects movements in our stock price over the most recent historical period
equivalent to the expected life. Dividend yield is estimated over the expected life based on our stated dividend policy and forecasts of net income, share repurchases and stock price.      A summary of our stock-based compensation activity for the year ended December 31, 2011 is presented below:        Our Stock Option Activity         

(a)  
    Options are in thousands and include options previously granted under PBG, PAS and Quaker legacy plans. No additional options or shares may be
granted under the PBG, PAS and Quaker plans.          

(b)  
    Weighted-average exercise price.          

(c)  
    Weighted-average contractual life remaining.          

(d)  
    In thousands.      
         93   

Table of Contents  

     Our RSU Activity     

(a)  
  RSUs are in thousands and include RSUs previously granted under a PBG plan. No additional RSUs or shares may be granted under the PBG plan.     

(b)  
  Weighted-average intrinsic value at grant date.         

(c)  
  Weighted-average contractual life remaining.         

(d)  
  In thousands.          Other Stock-Based
Compensation Data         

(a)  
  In thousands.        As of
December 31, 2011, there was $436 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation grants. This unrecognized compensation is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of two years.
  
    Note 7   Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans    
   Our pension plans cover certain full-time employees in the U.S. and certain international employees. Benefits are
determined based on either years of service or a combination of years of service and earnings. Certain U.S. and Canada retirees are also eligible for medical and life insurance benefits (retiree medical) if they meet age and service requirements.
Generally, our share of retiree medical costs is capped at specified dollar amounts, which vary based upon years of service, with retirees contributing the remainder of the costs.   
         94   

Table of Contents  

   Gains and losses resulting from actual experience differing from our assumptions, including
the difference between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return on plan assets, and from changes in our assumptions are determined at each measurement date. If this net accumulated gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the
market-related value of plan assets or plan liabilities, a portion of the net gain or loss is included in expense for the following year based upon the average remaining service period of active plan participants, which is approximately 10 years for
pension expense and approximately 8 years for retiree medical expense. The cost or benefit of plan changes that increase or decrease benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost/(credit)) is included in earnings on a straight-line basis
over the average remaining service period of active plan participants.      In connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, we
assumed sponsorship of pension and retiree medical plans that provide benefits to certain U.S. and international employees. Subsequently, during the third quarter of 2010, we merged the pension plan assets of the legacy PBG and PAS U.S. pension
plans with those of PepsiCo into one master trust.      During 2010, the Compensation Committee of PepsiCo s Board of
Directors approved certain changes to the U.S. pension and retiree medical plans, effective January 1, 2011. Pension plan design changes included implementing a new employer contribution to the 401(k) savings plan for all future salaried new
hires of the Company, as salaried new hires are no longer eligible to participate in the defined benefit pension plan, as well as implementing a new defined benefit pension formula for certain hourly new hires of the Company. Pension plan design
changes also included implementing a new employer contribution to the 401(k) savings plan for certain legacy PBG and PAS salaried employees (as such employees are also not eligible to participate in the defined benefit pension plan), as well as
implementing a new defined benefit pension formula for certain legacy PBG and PAS hourly employees. The retiree medical plan design change included phasing out Company subsidies of retiree medical benefits.   
  As a result of these changes, we remeasured our pension and retiree medical expenses and liabilities in the third quarter of 2010, which
resulted in a one-time pre-tax curtailment gain of $62 million included in retiree medical expenses.      The provisions of both
the PPACA and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act are reflected in our retiree medical expenses and liabilities and were not material to our financial statements.   
         95   

Table of Contents  

   Selected financial information for our pension and retiree medical plans is as follows:   

96   

Table of Contents  

The components of benefit expense are as follows:   

97   

Table of Contents  

   The estimated amounts to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into
benefit expense in 2012 for our pension and retiree medical plans are as follows:       
    The following table provides the weighted-average assumptions used to determine projected benefit
liability and benefit expense for our pension and retiree medical plans:       
    The following table provides selected information about plans with liability for service to date and
total benefit liability in excess of plan assets:       
    Of the total projected pension benefit liability at year-end 2011, $787 million relates to plans that we
do not fund because the funding of such plans does not receive favorable tax treatment.   
         98   

Table of Contents  

     Future Benefit Payments and Funding     
  Our estimated future benefit payments are as follows:       

(a)  
    Expected future benefit payments for our retiree medical plans do not reflect any estimated subsidies expected to be received under the 2003
Medicare Act. Subsidies are expected to be approximately $13 million for each of the years from 2012 through 2016 and approximately $100 million in total for 2017 through 2021.      
  These future benefits to beneficiaries include payments from both funded and unfunded pension plans.   
  In 2012, we expect to make pension and retiree medical contributions of approximately $1.3 billion, with up to approximately $1 billion
expected to be discretionary. Our net cash payments for retiree medical are estimated to be approximately $124 million in 2012.        Plan
Assets          Pension        Our pension plan investment strategy includes the use of actively managed securities and is reviewed periodically in conjunction with plan liabilities, an evaluation of market conditions, tolerance for
risk and cash requirements for benefit payments. Our investment objective is to ensure that funds are available to meet the plans  benefit obligations when they become due. Our overall investment strategy is to prudently invest plan assets in a
well-diversified portfolio of equity and high-quality debt securities to achieve our long-term return expectations. Our investment policy also permits the use of derivative instruments which are primarily used to reduce risk. Our expected
long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is 7.8%. Our 2011 target investment allocation was 40% for U.S. equity, 20% for international equity and 40% for fixed income. For 2012, our target allocations are as follows: 40% for fixed income, 33%
for U.S. equity, 22% for international equity and 5% for real estate. The change to the 2012 target asset allocations was made to increase diversification. Actual investment allocations may vary from our target investment allocations due to
prevailing market conditions. We regularly review our actual investment allocations and periodically rebalance our investments to our target allocations.      The expected return on pension plan assets is based on our pension plan investment strategy, our expectations for long-term rates of return by asset class taking into account volatility and correlation
among asset classes and our historical experience. We also review current levels of interest rates and inflation to assess the reasonableness of the long-term rates. We evaluate our expected return assumptions annually to ensure that they are
reasonable. To calculate the expected return on pension plan assets, our market-related value of assets for fixed income is the actual fair value. For all other asset categories, we use a method that recognizes investment gains or losses (the
difference between the expected and actual return based on the market-related value of assets) over a five-year period. This has the effect of reducing year-to-year volatility.   
         99   

Table of Contents  

     Retiree Medical        In 2011 and 2010, we made non-discretionary contributions of $110 million and $100 million, respectively, to fund the payment of retiree medical claims. In 2010, we made a discretionary contribution of
$170 million to fund future U.S. retiree medical plan benefits. This contribution was invested consistent with the allocation of existing assets in the U.S. pension plan.        Fair Value        The guidance on fair value measurements defines fair
value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The fair value framework requires the categorization of assets and liabilities into three levels based upon the assumptions (inputs) used
to price the assets. Level 1 provides the most reliable measure of fair value, whereas Level 3 generally requires significant management judgment.   
         100

Table of Contents  

   Plan assets measured at fair value as of fiscal year-end 2011 and 2010 are categorized
consistently by level in both years, and are as follows:       

(a)  
    Based on quoted market prices in active markets.          

(b)  
    Based on the fair value of the investments owned by these funds that track various U.S. large, mid-cap and small company indices. Includes one
large-cap fund that represents 30% and 32%, respectively, of total U.S. plan assets for 2011 and 2010.          

(c)  
    Based on the fair value of the investments owned by these funds that track various non-U.S. equity indices.      

(d)  
    Based on quoted bid prices for comparable securities in the marketplace and broker/dealer quotes that are not observable.

(f)  
    Based on the fair value of the contracts as determined by the insurance companies using inputs that are not observable.

(g)  
    Based on the fair value of the investments owned by these funds that track various government and corporate bond indices.

(h)  
    Based on the fair value of the investments owned by these funds. Includes managed hedge funds that invest primarily in derivatives to reduce
currency exposure.          

(i)  
    Based on the fair value of the investments owned by this fund that tracks various indices.      

*  
    2011 and 2010 amounts include $190 million of retiree medical plan assets that are restricted for purposes of providing health benefits for U.S.
retirees and their beneficiaries.      
         101

Table of Contents  

     Retiree Medical Cost Trend Rates     
  An average increase of 7% in the cost of covered retiree medical benefits is assumed for 2012. This average increase is then projected to
decline gradually to 5% in 2020 and thereafter. These assumed health care cost trend rates have an impact on the retiree medical plan expense and liability. However, the cap on our share of retiree medical costs limits the impact. In addition, as of
January 1, 2011, the Company started phasing out Company subsidies of retiree medical benefits. A 1-percentage-point change in the assumed health care trend rate would have the following effects:   
   
      Savings Plan        Certain U.S. employees are eligible to participate in 401(k) savings plans, which are voluntary defined contribution plans. The plans are designed to help employees accumulate additional savings for
retirement, and we make Company matching contributions on a portion of eligible pay based on years of service.      In 2010, in
connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, we also made Company retirement contributions for certain employees on a portion of eligible pay based on years of service.      As of January 1, 2011, a new employer contribution to the 401(k) savings plan became effective for certain eligible legacy PBG and PAS salaried employees as well as all eligible salaried new hires of
PepsiCo who are not eligible to participate in the defined benefit pension plan as a result of plan design changes approved during 2010. In 2011 and 2010, our total Company contributions were $144 million and $135 million, respectively.   
  As of February 2012, certain U.S. employees earning a benefit under one of our defined benefit pension plans will no longer be eligible
for the Company matching contributions on their 401(k) contributions.      For additional unaudited information on our pension and
retiree medical plans and related accounting policies and assumptions, see  Our Critical Accounting Policies  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   
    Note 8   Related Party Transactions    
   On February 26, 2010, we completed our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, at which time we gained control over their
operations and began to consolidate their results. See Notes 1 and 15. Prior to these acquisitions, PBG and PAS represented our most significant noncontrolled bottling affiliates. Sales to PBG in 2010 (prior to the acquisition date) represented less
than 1% of our total net revenue in 2010 and 6% of our total net revenue in 2009.   
         102

Table of Contents  

   PBG s and PAS s summarized income statements for 2009 are as follows:   
   
    Prior to the completion of our acquisitions of PBG and PAS on February 26, 2010, our significant
related party transactions were primarily with PBG and PAS, as well as with other noncontrolled bottling affiliates. Related party transactions in 2011 are not material as we now consolidate PBG and PAS. All such transactions were settled on terms
consistent with other trade receivables and payables. The transactions primarily consisted of (1) selling concentrate to these affiliates, which they use in the production of CSDs and non-carbonated beverages, (2) selling certain finished
goods to these affiliates, (3) receiving royalties for the use of our trademarks for certain products and (4) paying these affiliates to act as our manufacturing and distribution agent for product associated with our national account
fountain customers. Sales of concentrate and finished goods are reported net of bottler funding. For further unaudited information on these bottlers, see  Our Customers  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations. These transactions with our bottling affiliates are reflected in our consolidated financial statements as follows:       

(a)  
    Includes transactions with PBG and PAS in 2010 prior to the date of acquisition. 2010 balance sheet information for PBG and PAS is not applicable as
we consolidated their balance sheets at the date of acquisition.         We also coordinate, on an aggregate basis,
the contract negotiations of sweeteners and other raw material requirements, including aluminum cans and plastic bottles and closures for certain of our independent bottlers. Once we have negotiated the contracts, the bottlers order and take
delivery directly from the supplier and pay the suppliers directly. Consequently, these transactions are not reflected in our consolidated financial statements. As the contracting party, we could be liable to these suppliers in the event of any
nonpayment by our bottlers, but we consider this exposure to be remote.      In addition, our joint ventures with Unilever (under
the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks sell finished goods (ready-to-drink teas, coffees and water products) to our noncontrolled bottling affiliates. Consistent with accounting for equity method investments, our joint venture revenue is not included
in our consolidated net revenue and therefore is not included in the above table.      In 2010, we repurchased $357 million (5.5
million shares) of PepsiCo stock from the Master Trust which holds assets of PepsiCo s U.S. qualified pension plans at market value.   
         103

Table of Contents  

Note 9   Debt Obligations and Commitments    
    
     The interest rates in the above table reflect weighted-average rates at year-end.    
  In the second quarter of 2011, we issued:       

$750 million of floating rate notes maturing in 2013, which bear interest at a rate equal to the three-month London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR)
plus 8 basis points; and          
    In the third quarter of 2011, we issued:       

The net proceeds from the issuances of all the above notes were used for general corporate purposes.      In the third quarter of 2011, we entered into a new four-year unsecured revolving credit agreement (Four-Year Credit Agreement) which expires in June 2015. Effective August 8, 2011, commitments under
this agreement were increased to enable us to borrow up to $2.925 billion, subject to customary terms and conditions. We may request that commitments under this agreement be increased up to $3.5 billion. Additionally, we may, once a year, request
renewal of the agreement for an additional one-year period.      Also, in the third quarter of 2011, we entered into a new 364-day
unsecured revolving credit agreement (364-Day Credit Agreement) which expires in June 2012. Effective August 8, 2011, commitments under this agreement were increased to enable us to borrow up to $2.925 billion, subject to customary terms and
conditions. We may request that commitments under this   
         104

Table of Contents  

agreement be increased up to $3.5 billion. We may request renewal of this facility for an additional 364-day period or convert any amounts outstanding into a term loan for a period of up to one
year, which would mature no later than June 2013.      The Four-Year Credit Agreement and the 364-Day Credit Agreement, together
replaced our $2 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement, our $2.575 billion 364-day unsecured revolving credit agreement and our $1.080 billion amended PBG credit facility. Funds borrowed under the Four-Year Credit Agreement and the 364-Day
Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, including but not limited to repayment of outstanding commercial paper issued by us and our subsidiaries, working capital, capital investments and/or acquisitions.   
  In the third quarter of 2011, we paid $784 million in a cash tender offer to repurchase $766 million (aggregate principal amount) of
certain WBD debt obligations. As a result of this debt repurchase, we recorded a $16 million charge to interest expense (included in merger and integration charges) in the third quarter, primarily representing the premium paid in the tender offer.
     In addition, as of December 31, 2011, $848 million of our debt related to borrowings from various lines of credit that
are primarily maintained for our international divisions. These lines of credit are subject to normal banking terms and conditions and are fully committed at least to the extent of our borrowings.   
      Long-Term Contractual Commitments     (a)            

(a)  
    Reflects non-cancelable commitments as of December 31, 2011 based on year-end foreign exchange rates and excludes any reserves for uncertain
tax positions as we are unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of settlement.          

(b)  
    Excludes $2,549 million related to current maturities of long-term debt, $470 million related to the fair value step-up of debt acquired in
connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS and $360 million related to the increase in carrying value of long-term debt representing the gains on our fair value interest rate swaps.      

(c)  
    Interest payments on floating-rate debt are estimated using interest rates effective as of December 31, 2011.      
         105

Table of Contents  

   Most long-term contractual commitments, except for our long-term debt obligations, are not
recorded on our balance sheet. Non-cancelable operating leases primarily represent building leases. Non-cancelable purchasing commitments are primarily for sugar and other sweeteners, packaging materials, oranges and orange juice. Non-cancelable
marketing commitments are primarily for sports marketing. Bottler funding to independent bottlers is not reflected in our long-term contractual commitments as it is negotiated on an annual basis. Accrued liabilities for pension and retiree medical
plans are not reflected in our long-term contractual commitments because they do not represent expected future cash outflows. See Note 7 for additional information regarding our pension and retiree medical obligations.   
    Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements        It is not our business practice to enter into off-balance-sheet arrangements, other than in the normal course of business. See Note 8 regarding contracts related to certain of our bottlers.   
  See  Our Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations for further unaudited information on our borrowings.   
    Note 10   Financial Instruments    
   We are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in:   

commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy,      

foreign exchange risks, and          

interest rates.         In the normal course of business, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, including the use of derivatives. Certain derivatives are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges and
qualify for hedge accounting treatment, while others do not qualify and are marked to market through earnings. Cash flows from derivatives used to manage commodity, foreign exchange or interest risks are classified as operating activities. See
 Our Business Risks  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further unaudited information on our business risks.   
  For cash flow hedges, changes in fair value are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive loss within common shareholders  equity
until the underlying hedged item is recognized in net income. For fair value hedges, changes in fair value are recognized immediately in earnings, consistent with the underlying hedged item. Hedging transactions are limited to an underlying
exposure. As a result, any change in the value of our derivative instruments would be substantially offset by an opposite change in the value of the underlying hedged items. Hedging ineffectiveness and a net earnings impact occur when the change in
the value of the hedge does not offset the change in the value of the underlying hedged item. If the derivative instrument is terminated, we continue to defer the related gain or loss and then include it as a component of the cost of the underlying
hedged item. Upon determination that the underlying hedged item will not be part of an actual transaction, we recognize the related gain or loss in net income immediately.   
         106

Table of Contents  

   We also use derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We account for
such derivatives at market value with the resulting gains and losses reflected in our income statement. We do not use derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We perform assessments of our counterparty credit risk regularly,
including a review of credit ratings, credit default swap rates and potential nonperformance of the counterparty. Based on our most recent assessment of our counterparty credit risk, we consider this risk to be low. In addition, we enter into
derivative contracts with a variety of financial institutions that we believe are creditworthy in order to reduce our concentration of credit risk.        Commodity Prices        We are subject to commodity price risk because our
ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing may be limited in the competitive environment in which we operate. This risk is managed through the use of fixed-price purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivatives. In addition, risk
to our supplies of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. We use derivatives, with terms of no more than three years, to economically hedge price fluctuations related to a portion of our
anticipated commodity purchases, primarily for metals, energy and agricultural products. For those derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting, any ineffectiveness is recorded immediately in corporate unallocated expenses. We classify both the
earnings and cash flow impact from these derivatives consistent with the underlying hedged item. During the next 12 months, we expect to reclassify net losses of $59 million related to these hedges from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net
income. Derivatives used to hedge commodity price risk that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market each period and reflected in our income statement.      Our open commodity derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting had a face value of $598 million as of December 31, 2011 and $590 million as of December 25, 2010. Ineffectiveness for
our commodity hedges is not material.      Our open commodity derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting had a
face value of $630 million as of December 31, 2011 and $266 million as of December 25, 2010.        Foreign Exchange
       Financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using period-end exchange rates for
assets and liabilities and weighted-average exchange rates for revenues and expenses. Adjustments resulting from translating net assets are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within common shareholders 
equity as currency translation adjustment.      Our operations outside of the U.S. generate approximately 50% of our net revenue,
with Russia, Mexico, Canada and the United Kingdom comprising approximately 23% of our net revenue. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency risks. We also enter into derivatives, primarily forward contracts with terms of no more than two
years, to manage our exposure to foreign currency transaction risk. Exchange rate gains or losses related to foreign currency transactions are recognized as transaction gains or losses in our income statement as incurred.   
  Our foreign currency derivatives had a total face value of $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2011 and $1.7 billion as of
December 25, 2010. During the next 12 months, we expect to reclassify net gains   
         107

Table of Contents  

of $20 million related to foreign currency contracts that qualify for hedge accounting from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net income. Additionally, ineffectiveness for our foreign
currency hedges is not material. For foreign currency derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, all losses and gains were offset by changes in the underlying hedged items, resulting in no net material impact on earnings.
       Interest Rates        We centrally manage our debt and investment portfolios considering investment opportunities and risks, tax consequences and overall financing strategies. We use various interest rate derivative
instruments including, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, Treasury locks and swap locks to manage our overall interest expense and foreign exchange risk. These instruments effectively change the interest
rate and currency of specific debt issuances. Certain of our fixed rate indebtedness has been swapped to floating rates. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the interest rate and cross-currency swaps match the principal,
interest payment and maturity date of the related debt. Our Treasury locks and swap locks are entered into to protect against unfavorable interest rate changes relating to forecasted debt transactions.   
  The notional amounts of the interest rate derivative instruments outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010 were
$8.33 billion and $9.23 billion, respectively. For those interest rate derivative instruments that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting, any ineffectiveness is recorded immediately. Ineffectiveness for our interest rate hedges is not material. We
classify both the earnings and cash flow impact from these interest rate derivative instruments consistent with the underlying hedged item. During the next 12 months, we expect to reclassify net losses of $16 million related to these hedges from
accumulated other comprehensive loss into net income.      As of December 31, 2011, approximately 38% of total debt, after
the impact of the related interest rate derivative instruments, was exposed to variable rates, compared to 43% as of December 25, 2010.   
         108

Table of Contents  

     Fair Value Measurements     
  The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010 are categorized as
follows:       

(a)  
    Financial assets are classified on our balance sheet within prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets, with the exception of
available-for-sale securities and short-term investments, which are classified as short-term investments. Financial liabilities are classified on our balance sheet within accounts payable and other current liabilities and other liabilities. Unless
specifically indicated, all financial assets and liabilities are categorized as Level 2 assets or liabilities.          

(b)  
    Based on the price of common stock. Categorized as a Level 1 asset.      

(c)  
    Based on price changes in index funds used to manage a portion of market risk arising from our deferred compensation liability. Categorized as a
Level 1 asset.          

(d)  
    Based primarily on the price of our common stock.          

(e)  
    Based on the fair value of investments corresponding to employees  investment elections. As of December 31, 2011 and December 25,
2010, $44 million and $170 million, respectively, are categorized as Level 1 liabilities. The remaining balances are categorized as Level 2 liabilities.      

(f)  
    Based on LIBOR and recently reported transactions in the marketplace.      

(g)  
    Based on observable market transactions of spot and forward rates.      

(h)  
    Based on recently reported transactions in the marketplace, primarily swap arrangements.      

(i)  
    Based on average prices on futures exchanges. Categorized as a Level 1 asset or liability.      
         109

Table of Contents  

   The effective portion of the pre-tax (gains)/losses on our derivative instruments are categorized in the
table below.       

(a)  
    Interest rate derivative gains are primarily from fair value hedges and are included in interest expense. These gains are substantially offset by
increases in the value of the underlying debt, which is also included in interest expense. All other gains/losses are from non-designated hedges and are included in corporate unallocated expenses.      

(b)  
    Interest rate derivative losses are included in interest expense. All other gains/losses are primarily included in cost of sales.
        The carrying amounts of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments approximate fair value due
to the short-term maturity. Short-term investments consist principally of short-term time deposits and index funds used to manage a portion of market risk arising from our deferred compensation liability. The fair value of our debt obligations as of
December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010 was $29.8 billion and $25.9 billion, respectively, based upon prices of similar instruments in the marketplace.   
    Note 11   Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo per Common Share    
   Basic net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share is net income available for PepsiCo common shareholders
divided by the weighted average of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share is calculated using the weighted average of common shares outstanding adjusted to include the effect that
would occur if in-the-money employee stock options were exercised and RSUs and preferred shares were converted into common shares. Options to purchase 25.9 million shares in 2011, 24.4 million shares in 2010 and 39.0 million shares in
2009 were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share because these options were out-of-the-money. Out-of-the-money options had average exercise prices of $66.99 in 2011, $67.26 in 2010 and $61.52 in 2009.   
         110

Table of Contents  

   The computations of basic and diluted net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share
are as follows:       

(a)  
  Weighted-average common shares outstanding (in millions).     
    Note 12   Preferred Stock    
   As of December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010, there were 3 million shares of convertible preferred
stock authorized. The preferred stock was issued for an ESOP established by Quaker and these shares are redeemable for common stock by the ESOP participants. The preferred stock accrues dividends at an annual rate of $5.46 per share. At year-end
2011 and 2010, there were 803,953 preferred shares issued and 206,653 and 227,653 shares outstanding, respectively. The outstanding preferred shares had a fair value of $68 million as of December 31, 2011 and $74 million as of December 25,
2010. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into 4.9625 shares of common stock. The preferred shares may be called by us upon written notice at $78 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends. Quaker made the final award to its ESOP
plan in June 2001.   
         111

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  In millions.     
    Note 13   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Attributable to PepsiCo    
   Comprehensive income is a measure of income which includes both net income and other comprehensive income or loss.
Other comprehensive income or loss results from items deferred from recognition into our income statement. Accumulated other comprehensive income or loss is separately presented on our balance sheet as part of common shareholders  equity. Other
comprehensive (loss)/income attributable to PepsiCo was $(2,599) million in 2011, $164 million in 2010 and $900 million in 2009. The accumulated balances for each component of other comprehensive loss attributable to PepsiCo were as follows:

(a)  
  Includes $23 million after-tax gain in 2009 for our share of our equity investees  accumulated derivative activity.     

112

Table of Contents  

Note 14   Supplemental Financial Information    

113

Table of Contents  

Note 15   Acquisitions    
     PBG and PAS        On February 26, 2010, we acquired PBG and PAS to create a more fully integrated supply chain and go-to-market business model, improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the distribution of our
brands and enhancing our revenue growth. The total purchase price was approximately $12.6 billion, which included $8.3 billion of cash and equity and the fair value of our previously held equity interests in PBG and PAS of $4.3 billion. The
acquisitions were accounted for as business combinations, and, accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. Our fair market valuations of the
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been completed and the final valuations did not materially differ from those fair values reported as of December 25, 2010.   
  The following table presents unaudited consolidated pro forma financial information as if the closing of our acquisitions of PBG and PAS
had occurred on December 27, 2009 for purposes of the financial information presented for the year ended December 25, 2010; and as if the closing of our acquisitions of PBG and PAS had occurred on December 28, 2008 for purposes of the
financial information presented for the year ended December 26, 2009.       
    The unaudited consolidated pro forma financial information was prepared in accordance with the
acquisition method of accounting under existing standards, and the regulations of the U.S.   
         114

Table of Contents  

Securities and Exchange Commission, and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have occurred if our acquisitions of PBG and PAS had been completed on the date
indicated, nor is it indicative of the future operating results of PepsiCo.      The historical unaudited consolidated financial
information has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma events that are (1) directly attributable to the acquisitions, (2) factually supportable, and (3) expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results of PepsiCo, PBG
and PAS.      The unaudited pro forma results have been adjusted with respect to certain aspects of our acquisitions of PBG and
PAS to reflect:       

the consummation of the acquisitions;          

consolidation of PBG and PAS which are now owned 100% by PepsiCo and the corresponding gain resulting from the remeasurement of our previously held
equity interests in PBG and PAS;          

the elimination of related party transactions between PepsiCo and PBG, and PepsiCo and PAS;      

changes in assets and liabilities to record their acquisition date fair values and changes in certain expenses resulting therefrom; and

additional indebtedness, including, but not limited to, debt issuance costs and interest expense, incurred in connection with the acquisitions.
        The unaudited pro forma results do not reflect future events that either have occurred or may occur after
the acquisitions, including, but not limited to, the anticipated realization of ongoing savings from operating synergies in subsequent periods. They also do not give effect to certain one-time charges we expect to incur in connection with the
acquisitions, including, but not limited to, charges that are expected to achieve ongoing cost savings and synergies.        WBD
       On February 3, 2011, we acquired the ordinary shares, including shares underlying ADSs and Global Depositary
Shares (GDS), of WBD, a company incorporated in the Russian Federation, which represented in the aggregate approximately 66% of WBD s outstanding ordinary shares, pursuant to the purchase agreement dated December 1, 2010 between PepsiCo
and certain selling shareholders of WBD for approximately $3.8 billion in cash. The acquisition of those shares increased our total ownership to approximately 77%, giving us a controlling interest in WBD. Under the guidance on accounting for
business combinations, once a controlling interest is obtained, we are required to recognize and measure 100% of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests at their full fair values.   
         115

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities assumed in the acquisition of WBD and the resulting goodwill as of the acquisition date:       

Fair value of total consideration transferred    

Payment in cash, for the approximately 66% of outstanding ordinary shares of WBD on February 3, 2011, including shares
underlying ADSs and GDSs (or $2,428, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired)   
      
  $  
  3,827  

Fair value of our previously held equity interest in WBD prior to the acquisition   

644  

Total    
      
  $  
  4,471  

Acquisition date fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed    

Inventories   
      
  $  
  314  

Property, plant and equipment   

813  

Amortizable intangible assets, primarily customer relationships   

46  

Nonamortizable intangible assets, primarily brands and tradename   

3,114  

Other current assets and liabilities   (a)      

1,244  

Debt obligations   

(1,114  
  )    
 
    Other noncurrent assets and liabilities   

(31  
  )    
 
    Deferred income taxes   

(665  
  )    

Total identifiable net assets   

3,721  

Fair value of noncontrolling interest in WBD   

(1,349  
  )    
 
    Goodwill   

2,099  

Total    
      
  $  
  4,471  

(a)  
    Includes cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other current assets, accounts payable and other current liabilities.
        Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration transferred,
any noncontrolling interest and any previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the net assets recognized. The goodwill recorded as part of the acquisition of WBD primarily reflects the value of adding economies of scale
from our existing manufacturing and procurement operations in Russia and synergies expected to arise from our combined brand portfolios in the nutrition and other categories, as well as any intangible assets that do not qualify for separate
recognition. Goodwill is not amortizable or deductible for tax purposes. All of the goodwill is recorded in our Europe segment.   
  Under the guidance on accounting for business combinations, merger and integration costs are not included as components of consideration
transferred but are accounted for as expenses in the period in which the costs are incurred. See Note 3 for details on the expenses incurred during 2011 and 2010.      On March 10, 2011, we commenced our tender offers in Russia and the U.S. for all remaining outstanding ordinary shares and ADSs of WBD for 3,883.70 Russian rubles per ordinary share and 970.925
Russian rubles per ADS, respectively. The Russian offer was made to all holders   
         116

Table of Contents  

of ordinary shares and the U.S. offer was made to all holders of ADSs. We completed the Russian offer on May 19, 2011 and the U.S. offer on May 16, 2011. After completion of the offers,
we paid approximately $1.3 billion for WBD s ordinary shares (including shares underlying ADSs) and increased our total ownership of WBD to approximately 98.6%.      On June 30, 2011, we elected to exercise our squeeze-out rights under Russian law with respect to all remaining WBD ordinary shares not already owned by us. Therefore, under Russian law, all
remaining WBD shareholders were required to sell their ordinary shares (including those underlying ADSs) to us at the same price that was offered to WBD shareholders in the Russian tender offer. Accordingly, all registered holders of ordinary shares
on August 15, 2011 (including the ADS depositary) received 3,883.70 Russian rubles per ordinary share. After completion of the squeeze-out in September 2011 (during our fourth quarter), we paid approximately $79 million for WBD s ordinary
shares (including shares underlying ADSs) and increased our total ownership to 100% of WBD.   
         117

Table of Contents  

    Management s Responsibility for Financial Reporting    
  To Our Shareholders:      At PepsiCo, our actions   the actions of all our associates   are governed by our Worldwide Code of Conduct. This Code is clearly aligned with our stated values   a commitment to sustained
growth, through empowered people, operating with responsibility and building trust. Both the Code and our core values enable us to operate with integrity   both within the letter and the spirit of the law. Our Code of Conduct is reinforced
consistently at all levels and in all countries. We have maintained strong governance policies and practices for many years.   
  The management of PepsiCo is responsible for the objectivity and integrity of our consolidated financial statements. The Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors has engaged independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, to audit our consolidated financial statements, and they have expressed an unqualified opinion.   
  We are committed to providing timely, accurate and understandable information to investors. Our commitment encompasses the following:
      Maintaining strong controls over financial reporting.  Our system of internal control is based on the control criteria
framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission published in their report titled  Internal Control   Integrated Framework . The system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
executed as authorized and accurately recorded; that assets are safeguarded; and that accounting records are sufficiently reliable to permit the preparation of financial statements that conform in all material respects with accounting principles
generally accepted in the U.S. We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
the specified time periods. We monitor these internal controls through self-assessments and an ongoing program of internal audits. Our internal controls are reinforced through our Worldwide Code of Conduct, which sets forth our commitment to conduct
business with integrity, and within both the letter and the spirit of the law.       Exerting rigorous oversight of the
business.  We continuously review our business results and strategies. This encompasses financial discipline in our strategic and daily business decisions. Our Executive Committee is actively involved   from understanding strategies and
alternatives to reviewing key initiatives and financial performance. The intent is to ensure we remain objective in our assessments, constructively challenge our approach to potential business opportunities and issues, and monitor results and
controls.       Engaging strong and effective Corporate Governance from our Board of Directors.  We have an active, capable
and diligent Board that meets the required standards for independence, and we welcome the Board s oversight as a representative of our shareholders. Our Audit Committee is comprised of independent directors with the financial literacy,
knowledge and experience to provide appropriate oversight. We review our critical accounting policies, financial reporting and internal control matters with them and encourage their direct communication with KPMG LLP, with our General Auditor, and
with our General Counsel. We also have a Compliance Department, led by our Chief Compliance Officer, to coordinate our compliance policies and practices.  
         118

Table of Contents  

    Providing investors with financial results that are complete, transparent and
understandable.  The consolidated financial statements and financial information included in this report are the responsibility of management. This includes preparing the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the U.S., which require estimates based on management s best judgment.       PepsiCo has a strong history of
doing what s right.  We realize that great companies are built on trust, strong ethical standards and principles. Our financial results are delivered from that culture of accountability, and we take responsibility for the quality and
accuracy of our financial reporting.      February 27, 2012   

/S/ MARIE T. GALLAGHER    
 
    Marie T. Gallagher    
 
    Senior Vice President and Controller    

/S/ HUGH F. JOHNSTON    
 
    Hugh F. Johnston    
 
    Chief Financial Officer    

/S/ INDRA K. NOOYI    
 
    Indra K. Nooyi    
 
    Chairman of the Board of Directors and     Chief Executive Officer    

119

Table of Contents  

     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders   
  PepsiCo, Inc.:      We have audited
the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of PepsiCo, Inc. and subsidiaries ( PepsiCo, Inc.  or  the Company ) as of December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Cash
Flows and Equity for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011. We also have audited PepsiCo, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in
Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). PepsiCo, Inc. s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing
under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.   
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of PepsiCo, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the fiscal years
in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, PepsiCo, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by COSO.      The
scope of management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting excluded the internal control over financial reporting of Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC and its subsidiaries ( WBD ), which the Company
acquired in February 2011. WBD represented 9% of the Company s consolidated total assets and 4% of the Company s consolidated net revenues as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our audit of internal control over financial
reporting of PepsiCo, Inc. also excluded an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of WBD.      /s/ KPMG LLP
     New York, New York      February 27, 2012   
         120

Table of Contents  

    Selected Financial Data       (in millions except per share amounts, unaudited)       

(a)  
    The 2011 fiscal year consisted of fifty-three weeks compared to fifty-two weeks in our normal fiscal year. The 53   rd    week increased 2011 net revenue by $623 million, gross profit by
$358 million, pre-tax income by $94 million and net income attributable to PepsiCo by $64 million or $0.04 per share.          

(b)  
    In 2011, we recognized $102 million ($71 million after-tax or $0.04 per share) of mark-to-market net losses on commodity hedges in corporate
unallocated expenses. In 2010, we recognized $91 million ($58 million after-tax or $0.04 per share) of mark-to-market net gains on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses.      

(c)  
    In 2011, we incurred merger and integration charges of $329 million related to our acquisitions of PBG, PAS and WBD. In total, these charges had an
after-tax impact of $271 million or $0.17 per share. In 2010, we incurred merger and integration charges of $799 million related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, as well as advisory fees in connection with our acquisition of WBD. In addition, we
recorded $9 million of merger-related charges, representing our share of the respective merger costs of PBG and PAS. In total, these charges had an after-tax impact of $648 million or $0.40 per share. See Note 3.      

(e)  
    In 2010, in connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, we recorded a gain on our previously held equity interests of $958 million ($0.60 per
share), comprising $735 million which was non-taxable and recorded in bottling equity income and $223 million related to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities associated with these previously held equity interests. See Note 15.

(f)  
    In 2011, we recorded $46 million ($28 million after-tax or $0.02 per share) of incremental costs related to fair value adjustments to the acquired
inventory included in WBD s balance sheet at the acquisition date and hedging contracts included in PBG s and PAS s balance sheets at the acquisition date. In 2010, we recorded $398 million ($333 million after-tax or $0.21 per share)
of incremental costs related to fair value adjustments to the acquired inventory and other related hedging contracts included in PBG s and PAS s balance sheets at the acquisition date.      

(g)  
    In 2010, we recorded a one-time $120 million net charge ($120 million after-tax or $0.07 per share) related to our change to hyperinflationary
accounting for our Venezuelan businesses and the related devaluation of the bolivar.          

(h)  
    In 2010, we recorded a $145 million charge ($92 million after-tax or $0.06 per share) related to a change in scope of one release in our ongoing
migration to SAP software.          

(i)  
    In 2010, we made a $100 million ($64 million after-tax or $0.04 per share) contribution to The PepsiCo Foundation Inc., in order to fund charitable
and social programs over the next several years.          

(j)  
    In 2010, we paid $672 million in a cash tender offer to repurchase $500 million (aggregate principal amount) of our 7.90% senior unsecured notes
maturing in 2018. As a result of this debt repurchase, we recorded a $178 million charge to interest expense ($114 million after-tax or $0.07 per share), primarily representing the premium paid in the tender offer.      

(k)  
    Represents the composite high and low sales price and quarterly closing prices for one share of PepsiCo common stock.      
         121

Table of Contents  

    Five-Year Summary       (unaudited)       

(a)  
    Return on invested capital is defined as adjusted net income attributable to PepsiCo divided by the sum of average common shareholders  equity
and average total debt. Adjusted net income attributable to PepsiCo is defined as net income attributable to PepsiCo plus interest expense after-tax. Interest expense after-tax was $548 million in 2011, $578 million in 2010, $254 million in 2009,
$210 million in 2008 and $143 million in 2007.          

Includes restructuring and impairment charges of:      

The 2011 fiscal year consisted of fifty-three weeks compared to fifty-two weeks in our normal fiscal year. The 53   rd    week increased 2011 net revenue by $623 million and net income
attributable to PepsiCo by $64 million or $0.04 per share.          

In 2011, we incurred merger and integration charges of $329 million related to our acquisitions of PBG, PAS and WBD. In total, these costs had an
after-tax impact of $271 million or $0.17 per share.          

In 2011, we recorded $46 million ($28 million after-tax or $0.02 per share) of incremental costs related to fair value adjustments to the acquired
inventory included in WBD s balance sheet at the acquisition date and hedging contracts included in PBG s and PAS s balance sheets at the acquisition date.      

In 2010, we incurred merger and integration charges of $799 million related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, as well as advisory fees in
connection with our acquisition of WBD. In addition, we recorded $9 million of merger-related charges, representing our share of the respective merger costs of PBG and PAS. In total, these costs had an after-tax impact of $648 million or $0.40 per
share.      
         122

Table of Contents  

In 2010, in connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, we recorded a gain on our previously held equity interests of $958 million ($0.60 per
share), comprising $735 million which was non-taxable and recorded in bottling equity income and $223 million related to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities associated with these previously held equity interests.      

In 2010, we recorded $398 million ($333 million after-tax or $0.21 per share) of incremental costs related to fair value adjustments to the acquired
inventory and other related hedging contracts included in PBG s and PAS s balance sheets at the acquisition date.          

In 2010, we recorded a one-time $120 million net charge ($120 million after-tax or $0.07 per share) related to our change to hyperinflationary
accounting for our Venezuelan businesses and the related devaluation of the bolivar.          

In 2010, we recorded a $145 million charge ($92 million after-tax or $0.06 per share) related to a change in scope of one release in our ongoing
migration to SAP software.          

In 2010, we made a $100 million ($64 million after-tax or $0.04 per share) contribution to The PepsiCo Foundation Inc., in order to fund charitable
and social programs over the next several years.          

In 2010, we paid $672 million in a cash tender offer to repurchase $500 million (aggregate principal amount) of our 7.90% senior unsecured notes
maturing in 2018. As a result of this debt repurchase, we recorded a $178 million charge to interest expense ($114 million after-tax or $0.07 per share), primarily representing the premium paid in the tender offer.      

In 2009, we recognized $50 million of merger-related charges related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, as well as an additional $11 million of
costs in bottling equity income representing our share of the respective merger costs of PBG and PAS. In total, these costs had an after-tax impact of $44 million or $0.03 per share.      

In 2007, we recognized $129 million ($0.08 per share) of non-cash tax benefits related to the favorable resolution of certain foreign tax matters.
     
         123

Table of Contents  

    GLOSSARY        Acquisitions and divestitures : reflect all mergers and acquisitions activity, including the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and changes in ownership or control in consolidated subsidiaries and
nonconsolidated equity investees.       Bottler Case Sales (BCS) :   measure of physical beverage volume shipped to
retailers and independent distributors from both PepsiCo and our independent bottlers.         Bottler funding :
financial incentives we give to our independent bottlers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our beverage products.   
   Concentrate Shipments and Equivalents (CSE) : measure of our physical beverage volume shipments to independent bottlers, retailers
and independent distributors. This measure is reported on our fiscal year basis.       Constant currency : financial results
assuming constant foreign currency exchange rates used for translation based on the rates in effect for the comparable prior-year period. In order to compute our constant currency results, we multiply or divide, as appropriate, our current year U.S.
dollar results by the current year average foreign exchange rates and then multiply or divide, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior year average foreign exchange rates.       Consumers : people who eat and drink our products.       CSD : carbonated soft drinks.
      Customers : authorized independent bottlers, distributors and retailers.   
   Derivatives : financial instruments, such as futures, swaps, Treasury locks, options and forward contracts that we use to manage
our risk arising from changes in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and stock prices.   
   Direct-Store-Delivery (DSD) : delivery system used by us and our independent bottlers to deliver snacks and beverages directly to
retail stores where our products are merchandised.       Effective net pricing : reflects the year-over-year impact of
discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in different package sizes and in different countries.       Hedge accounting : treatment for qualifying hedges that allows fluctuations in a hedging instrument s fair value to offset corresponding fluctuations in the hedged item in the same reporting
period. Hedge accounting is allowed only in cases where the hedging relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged items is highly effective, and only prospectively from the date a hedging relationship is formally documented.   
   Independent bottlers : customers to whom we have granted exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products
bearing our trademarks within a specific geographical area.   
         124

Table of Contents  

    Management operating cash flow : net cash provided by operating activities less
capital spending plus sales of property, plant and equipment. It is our primary measure used to monitor cash flow performance.   
   Mark-to-market net gain or loss or impact :   the change in market value for commodity contracts that we purchase to mitigate
the volatility in costs of energy and raw materials that we consume. The market value is determined based on average prices on national exchanges and recently reported transactions in the marketplace.   
   Marketplace spending :   sales incentives offered through various programs to our customers and consumers (trade spending), as
well as advertising and other marketing activities.       Servings : common metric reflecting our consolidated physical unit
volume. Our divisions  physical unit measures are converted into servings based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines for single-serving sizes of our products.       Transaction gains and losses : the impact on our consolidated financial statements of exchange rate changes arising from specific transactions.   
   Translation adjustment : the impact of converting our foreign affiliates  financial statements into U.S. dollars for the
purpose of consolidating our financial statements.   
         125

Table of Contents  

      Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
      Included in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  Our Business Risks.          Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.    
  See  Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.          Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.       Not applicable.         Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.
        (a) Disclosure Controls and Procedures.   As of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out
an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such
term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this report our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is (1) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and
forms, and (2) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   
    (b) Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.   Our management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based upon the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.   
  The scope of management s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting included all of our
consolidated operations except for the operations of Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC and its subsidiaries (WBD), which we acquired in February 2011. WBD s operations represented 9% of our consolidated total assets and 4% of our consolidated net
revenues as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011.        Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting
Firm   .  KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, as part of their audit, has issued their report, included herein, on
the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.   
         126

Table of Contents  

     (c) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.   During our fourth
fiscal quarter of 2011, we continued migrating certain of our financial processing systems to an enterprise-wide systems solution. These systems implementations are part of our ongoing global business transformation initiative, and we plan to
continue implementing such systems throughout other parts of our businesses over the course of the next few years. In connection with these implementations and resulting business process changes, we continue to enhance the design and documentation
of our internal control over financial reporting processes to maintain suitable controls over our financial reporting. Moreover, we are in the process of integrating WBD into our overall internal control over financial reporting processes.
     Except as described above, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during our fourth fiscal
quarter of 2011 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   
     Item 9B. Other Information.       Not applicable.       PART III    
     Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.    
  Information about our directors and persons nominated to become directors is contained under the caption  Election of Directors 
in our Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 (the  2012 Proxy Statement ) and is incorporated herein by reference. Information
about our executive officers is reported under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this report.      Information on the beneficial ownership reporting for our directors and executive officers is contained under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our 2012
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.      We have a written code of conduct that applies to all of our
employees, including our directors, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller. Our Worldwide Code of Conduct is distributed to all employees, is available on our website at
 http://www.pepsico.com  and is included as Exhibit 14 to our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K. A copy of our Worldwide Code of Conduct may be obtained free of charge by writing to Investor Relations, PepsiCo, Inc., 700 Anderson Hill Road,
Purchase, New York 10577. Any amendment to our Worldwide Code of Conduct and any waiver applicable to our executive officers or senior financial officers will be posted on our website within the time period required by the SEC and New York Stock
Exchange.      Information about the procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors can be
found in our 2012 Proxy Statement under the caption  Corporate Governance at PepsiCo   The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.    
         127

Table of Contents  

   Information concerning the composition of the Audit Committee and our Audit Committee
financial experts is contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement under the captions  Corporate Governance at PepsiCo   Committees of the Board of Directors  and  Corporate Governance at PepsiCo   The Audit Committee  and is
incorporated herein by reference.         Item 11. Executive Compensation.    
  Information about director and executive officer compensation, Compensation Committee interlocks and the Compensation Committee Report is
contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement under the captions  2011 Director Compensation,   Executive Compensation,  and  Corporate Governance at PepsiCo   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation, 
and is incorporated herein by reference.         Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters.       Information with respect to securities authorized for issuance under equity
compensation plans can be found under the caption  Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans  in our 2012 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.   
  Information on the number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock beneficially owned by each director and named executive officer and by all
directors and executive officers as a group is contained under the caption  Ownership of PepsiCo Common Stock by Directors and Executive Officers  in our 2012 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. As far as we know, no
person beneficially owns more than 5% of the outstanding shares of PepsiCo Common or Convertible Preferred Stock.   
     Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.    
  Information with respect to certain relationships and related transactions and director independence is contained under the captions
 Corporate Governance at PepsiCo   Related Person Transactions  and  Corporate Governance at PepsiCo   Director Independence  in our 2012 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.   
     Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services.    
  Information on our Audit Committee s pre-approval policy for audit services and information on our principal accountant fees and
services is contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement under the caption  Audit and Non-Audit Fees  and is incorporated herein by reference.   
         128

Table of Contents  

    PART IV          Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.        

(a)1.  
    Financial Statements         The following consolidated financial statements of PepsiCo, Inc. and its affiliates are included herein by reference to the pages indicated on the index appearing in  Item 7. Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations :      Consolidated Statement of
Income   Fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009.   
  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   Fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010 and
December 26, 2009.      Consolidated Balance Sheet   December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010.
     Consolidated Statement of Equity   Fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010
and December 26, 2009.      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and   
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.   

(a)2.  
    Financial Statement Schedules         These schedules are omitted because they are not required or because the information is set forth in the financial statements or the notes thereto.   

(a)3.  
    Exhibits         See Index to Exhibits.   
         129

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, PepsiCo has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.      Dated: February 27, 2012   

PepsiCo, Inc.    

By:   
     
    /s/    Indra K. Nooyi    

Indra K. Nooyi    

Chairman of the Board of Directors and     Chief Executive Officer    
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of PepsiCo and in the capacities and on the date indicated.       

SIGNATURE    
      
     TITLE    
      
     DATE     

/s/    Indra K. Nooyi   
      
    Chairman of the Board of Directors and   
      
    February 27, 2012    
 
  Indra K. Nooyi  
      
  Chief Executive Officer  

/s/    Hugh F. Johnston   
      
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
    February 27, 2012    
 
  Hugh F. Johnston  

/s/    Marie T. Gallagher   
      
    Senior Vice President and Controller   
      
    February 27, 2012    
 
  Marie T. Gallagher  
      
  (Principal Accounting Officer)  

/s/    Shona L. Brown   
      
    Director   
      
    February 27, 2012    
 
  Shona L. Brown  

/s/    Ian M. Cook   
      
    Director   
      
    February 27, 2012    
 
  Ian M. Cook  

/s/    Dina Dublon   
      
    Director   
      
    February 27, 2012    
 
  Dina Dublon  

/s/    Victor J. Dzau   
      
    Director   
      
    February 27, 2012    
 
    Victor J. Dzau   

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

    INDEX TO EXHIBITS    
   ITEM 15(a)(3)       The following is a list of the exhibits filed as part of this Form 10-K. The documents incorporated by reference are located in the SEC s Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. in the SEC s
file no. 1-1183.       

EXHIBIT    

2.1   
      
    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of August 3, 2009, among PepsiCo, Inc., The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. and Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company,
Inc. (the schedules have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K), which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
August 4, 2009.    

2.2   
      
    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of August 3, 2009, among PepsiCo, Inc., PepsiAmericas, Inc. and Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc. (the
schedules have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K), which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 4,
2009.    

2.3   
      
    Purchase Agreement dated as of December 1, 2010 among PepsiCo, Inc., Pepsi-Cola (Bermuda) Limited, Gavril A. Yushvaev, David Iakobachvili, Mikhail V. Dubinin,
Sergei A. Plastinin, Alexander S. Orlov, Mikhail I. Vishnaykov, Aladaro Limited, Tony D. Maher, Dmitry Ivanov, Wimm Bill Dann Finance Cyprus Ltd. and Wimm-Bill-Dann Finance Co. Ltd. (the schedules have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of
Regulation S-K), which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 2, 2010.    

3.1   
      
    Articles of Incorporation of PepsiCo, Inc., as amended and restated, effective as of May 9, 2011, which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
PepsiCo, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 9, 2011.    

3.2   
      
    By-laws of PepsiCo, Inc., as amended, effective as of July 14, 2011, which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to PepsiCo, Inc. s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 20, 2011.    

4.1   
      
    PepsiCo, Inc. agrees to furnish to the SEC, upon request, a copy of any instrument defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of PepsiCo, Inc. and all of
its subsidiaries for which consolidated or unconsolidated financial statements are required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.     

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

4.23   
      
    Indenture, dated as of March 8, 1999, by and among The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc., as obligor, Bottling Group, LLC, as guarantor, and The Chase Manhattan
Bank, as trustee, relating to $1,000,000,000 7% Series B Senior Note due 2029, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration
No. 333-70291).    

4.24   
      
    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 26, 2010, among Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc., PepsiAmericas, Inc. and The Bank New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. to the Indenture dated as of January 15, 1993 between Whitman Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2010.    

4.25   
      
    First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 20, 1999, including the Indenture dated as of January 15, 1993, between Whitman Corporation and The First
National Bank of Chicago, as trustee, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to PepsiAmericas, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-64292) filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 29, 2005.    

4.26   
      
    Form of PepsiAmericas, Inc. 7.625% Note due 2015, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to PepsiCo, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended March 20, 2010.    

4.27   
      
    Form of PepsiAmericas, Inc. 7.29% Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to PepsiCo, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended March 20, 2010.    

4.28   
      
    Form of PepsiAmericas, Inc. 7.44% Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to PepsiCo, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended March 20, 2010.    

4.29   
      
    Form of PepsiAmericas, Inc. 4.50% Note due 2013, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to PepsiCo, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended March 20, 2010.    

4.30   
      
    First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 26, 2010, among Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc., PepsiAmericas, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank,
National Association to the Indenture dated as of August 15, 2003 between PepsiAmericas, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as trustee, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2010.    

4.31   
      
    Indenture dated as of August 15, 2003 between PepsiAmericas, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as trustee, which is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4 to PepsiAmericas, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-108164) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 22,
2003.     

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

10.7   
      
    PepsiCo, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective September 12, 2008, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4
to PepsiCo s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 6, 2008.*    

10.8   
      
    PepsiCo, Inc. Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit B to PepsiCo s Proxy Statement for its 2009 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.*    

10.9   
      
    Form of Regular Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to PepsiCo s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 28, 2005.*    

10.10   
      
    Form of Regular Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 28, 2005.*    

10.11   
      
    Form of Special Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement (Restricted Stock Units Terms and Conditions), which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to
PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 28, 2005.*    

10.12   
      
    Form of Special Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement (Stock Option Agreement), which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to PepsiCo s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 28, 2005.*    

10.13   
      
    Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.5 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 28, 2005.*    

10.14   
      
    Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.6 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 28, 2005.*    

10.15   
      
    Form of PepsiCo, Inc. Director Indemnification Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to PepsiCo s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2004.*    

10.16   
      
    Severance Plan for Executive Employees of PepsiCo, Inc. and Affiliates, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to PepsiCo s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 6, 2008.*    

10.17   
      
    Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 2, 2006.*     

Table of Contents  

10.18   
      
    Form of Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 2, 2006.*    

10.19   
      
    Form of Pro Rata Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to PepsiCo s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 2, 2006.*    

10.20   
      
    Form of Restricted Stock Unit Retention Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.5 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 2, 2006.*    

10.21   
      
    Form of Stock Option Retention Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 2, 2006.*    

10.22   
      
    PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program (Plan Document for the 409A Program), amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005, which is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 6, 2008.*    

10.23   
      
    PepsiCo Director Deferral Program, amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005 with revisions through March 10, 2011, which is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 19, 2011.*    

10.24   
      
    Amendments to the PepsiCo, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plans, the PepsiCo, Inc. 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the PepsiCo, Inc. 1995 Stock Option Incentive
Plan, the PepsiCo SharePower Stock Option Plan, the PepsiCo, Inc. 1987 Incentive Plan effective as of December 31, 2005, which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to PepsiCo s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2005.*    

10.25   
      
    Amendments to the PepsiCo, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the PepsiCo SharePower Stock Option Plan, the PepsiCo, Inc. 1995 Stock Option Incentive Plan, the
Quaker Long-Term Incentive Plan of 1999, the Quaker Long-Term Incentive Plan of 1990 and the PepsiCo, Inc. Director Stock Plan, effective as of November 17, 2006, which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to PepsiCo s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006.*    

10.26   
      
    Form of Non-Employee Director Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 9, 2006.*    

10.27   
      
    Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 7, 2007.*     

Table of Contents  

10.28   
      
    Form of Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 7, 2007.*    

10.29   
      
    Amendment to the PepsiCo, Inc. 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the PepsiCo, Inc. 1995 Stock Option Incentive Plan, the PepsiCo SharePower Stock Option Plan and
the PepsiCo, Inc. 1987 Incentive Plan, effective as of February 2, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.41 to PepsiCo s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30,
2006.*    

10.30   
      
    Form of Pro Rata Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 8, 2007.*    

10.31   
      
    Form of Stock Option Retention Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 8, 2007.*    

10.32   
      
    Form of Restricted Stock Unit Retention Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 8, 2007.*    

10.33   
      
    PepsiCo, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated March 12, 2010, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 11, 2010.*    

10.34   
      
    Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 7, 2008.*    

10.35   
      
    Form of Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 7, 2008.*    

10.36   
      
    Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009.*    

10.37   
      
    Form of Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009.*    

10.38   
      
    Form of Pro Rata Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009.*     

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

10.68   
      
    The PepsiCo International Retirement Plan Defined Benefit Program, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2010.*    

10.69   
      
    Amendment to The PepsiCo International Retirement Plan Defined Benefit Program, effective as of January 1, 2011.*    

10.70   
      
    PepsiCo Automatic Retirement Contribution Equalization Plan, effective as of January 1, 2011.*    

10.71   
      
    Amendment to the PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan (both the Plan Document for the 409A Program and Plan Document for the Pre-409A Program) and the PBG Pension
Equalization Plan (both the Plan Document for the 409A Program and Plan Document for the Pre-409A Program), generally, effective January 1, 2011 and merging the PBG Pension Equalization Plan into the PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan as of the end
of the day on December 31, 2011.*    

10.72   
      
    Services Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2011 and effective as of January 1, 2012, between Richard Goodman and PepsiCo, Inc., which is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 13, 2011.*    

10.73   
      
    Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 3, 2012.*    

10.74   
      
    Retirement Agreement, dated as of February 7, 2012 between Massimo d Amore and PepsiCo, Inc., which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
PepsiCo s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 9, 2012.*    

12   
      
    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.    

14   
      
    Worldwide Code of Conduct, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 14 to PepsiCo, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 25, 2010.    

21   
      
    Subsidiaries of PepsiCo, Inc.    

23   
      
    Consent of KPMG LLP.    

24   
      
    Power of Attorney executed by Indra K. Nooyi, Hugh F. Johnston, Marie T. Gallagher, Shona L. Brown, Ian M. Cook, Dina Dublon, Victor J. Dzau, Ray L. Hunt,
Alberto Ibarg en, Arthur C. Martinez, Sharon Percy Rockefeller, James J. Schiro, Lloyd G. Trotter, Daniel Vasella and Alberto Weisser.    

31   
      
    Certification of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.     

Table of Contents  

32   
      
    Certification of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.    

101   
      
    The following materials from PepsiCo, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business
Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, (iii) the Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iv) the Consolidated Statement of Equity and (v) Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.    

*  
  Management contracts and compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of this report.     

<EX-10.65>
 2
 d269581dex1065.htm
 LETTER AGREEMENT

Letter Agreement 

Exhibit 10.65    

Private and Confidential       March 17, 2011      Dear Maura:      We are pleased to confirm our offer and your acceptance to join PepsiCo, Inc. ( PepsiCo  or the  Company ) as Executive Vice President, Government Affairs, General Counsel and
Secretary, reporting to Indra Nooyi. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo. The primary details of your offer are as follows:       

Salary     Your starting annual base salary will be $750,000 ($28,846.15 payable bi-weekly), less applicable taxes. Your position is
not eligible for an automatic annual merit increase; instead, future adjustments to your base salary will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors of PepsiCo (the  Board of Directors ) based on a review of market data for comparable
positions.          

Start Date     Your Start Date will be a mutually agreed date on or prior to July 1, 2011.      

Sign-on Bonus     You will receive a cash sign-on bonus in the amount of $2,000,000, less applicable taxes (the  Sign-on
Bonus ), of which 50% will be paid as soon as practicable after your Start Date and 50% will be paid as soon as practicable following the first anniversary of your Start Date. In consideration of this Sign-On Bonus, you agree that, if, prior to
the second anniversary of your Start Date, you resign your employment or your employment is terminated by the Company for Cause, (i) you will be entitled to retain only that portion of your Sign-on Bonus determined by multiplying the Sign-on
Bonus by a fraction, the numerator of which will be the number of whole months that have elapsed from your Start Date to your termination date and the denominator of which will be 24 (such amount, your  Earned Sign-on Bonus ),
(ii) you will repay the Company any portion of your Sign-on Bonus already paid to the extent it exceeds your Earned Sign-on Bonus and (iii) you will forfeit any unpaid portion of your Sign-on Bonus. For this purpose,  Cause 
means any of the following: (A) breaching any obligation to the Company or violating the Company s Code of Conduct, Insider Trading Policy   or   any other written policies of the Company; (B) unlawfully trading in the
securities of PepsiCo or of any other company based on information gained as a result of your employment with the Company; (C) committing a felony or other serious crime; (D) engaging in any      

Maura Smith      March 17, 2011      Page 2      activity that constitutes gross misconduct in the performance of your
employment duties; or (E) engaging in any action that constitutes gross negligence or misconduct and that causes or contributes to the need for an accounting adjustment to PepsiCo s financial results.   

Sign-on RSU Grant     You will receive a special restricted stock unit ( RSU ) award with a face value equal to $3,000,000,
subject to approval by the Board of Directors. If your Start Date occurs on or before May 4, 2011, the grant date for this award will be May 4, 2011, and, if your Start Date occurs after May 4, 2011 but before July 1, 2011, the
grant date for this award will be July 1, 2011 (such date, as applicable, the  Grant Date ). The number of RSUs you will be granted under this award will be determined by dividing the face value by the Fair Market Value of PepsiCo
Common Stock on the Grant Date. The  Fair Market Value  on any date is the average of the high and low markct prices of PepsiCo Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, rounded to the next highest quarter, on such date.
Shortly after the Grant Date, you will receive an award agreement setting out the full terms of this award that you will be required to execute in order to receive this award. This award will vest 33% on the first anniversary of the Grant Date, 33%
on the second anniversary of the Grant Date and 34% on the third anniversary of the Grant Date, in each case contingent on your continued employment through the applicable vesting date. RSUs will be settled in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock with
accrued dividend equivalents paid in cash, less applicable taxes, as soon as practicable after the applicable vesting date.          

Annual Bonus           You will be eligible for an annual bonus under the PepsiCo, Inc. Executive Incentive
Compensation Plan with a target annual bonus opportunity equal to 100% of your annual base salary. At the full discretion of the Board of Directors, annual bonuses are paid out from 0% to 200% of target depending on team and individual performance
and are contingent on your continued employment through the end of the relevant performance year. Your 2011 annual bonus payable in March 2012 will be paid based on full-year participation and actual team and individual performance.

Long-Term lncentive Program     You will be eligible to participate in the PepsiCo, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan
( LTIP ) in accordance with its terms.         You will receive a prorated 2011 annual LTIP award at
target, subject to approval by the Board of Directors. If your Start Date occurs on or before May 4, 2011, your prorated 2011 annual LTIP award will have a face value of $1,150,000 and a grant date of May 4, 2011. If your Start Date occurs
after May 4, 2011 but before July 1, 2011, your prorated 2011 annual LTIP award will have a face value of $1,050,000 and a grant date of July 1, 2011. Your prorated 2011 annual LTIP award will consist of performance stock units
( PSUs ) and stock options as follows:       

PSUs     A number of PSUs determined by dividing 50% of the face value of your prorated 2011 annual LTIP award by the Fair Market
Value of PepsiCo Common Stock on the Grant Date. The PSUs awarded will vest on March 1, 2014, contingent on your continued employment and achievement of the applicable PepsiCo performance targets established by the Compensation Committee of the
Board of      

Maura Smith      March 17, 2011      Page 3      Directors for other similarly situated executives of the Company. The
Compensation Committee will approve an actual PSU payout from 0% to 125% of the number of PSUs awarded based on achievement of the applicable PepsiCo performance targets. PSUs will be settled in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock with accrued dividend
equivalents paid in cash, less applicable taxes, as soon as practicable after the applicable vesting date.       

Stock Options     A number of stock options determined by (i) dividing 50% of the face value of your prorated 2011 annual LTIP
award by the Fair Market Value of PepsiCo Common Stock on your Grant Date and (ii) multiplying the resulting amount by four. The stock options awarded will have an exercise price per share equal to the Fair Market Value of PepsiCo Common Stock
on your Grant Date, and, contingent on your continued employment, will vest on March 1, 2014.         The full terms
of your prorated 2011 PSU and stock option awards will be set out in an award agreement that you will receive shortly after the Grant Date and that you will be required to execute in order to receive this award.   
  Your target annual LTIP award for 2012 will have a face value of $1,400,000. Your actual 2012 annual LTIP award will have a face value
between 0% and 150% of target as determined by the Board of Directors in its full discretion based on team and individual performance and will be contingent upon your continued employment through the grant date. The grant date of your 2012 annual
LTIP award will be aligned with the Company s 2012 annual LTIP award grant date for other similarly situated executives, with such grant date expected to occur on March 1, 2012.   

Relocation     As a result of PepsiCo s request that you relocate to the Purchase, NY area to assume your duties of EVP,
Government Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary, you will be eligible for relocation expense reimbursement under the terms of the Company s relocation policy, which among the covered items includes shipment of household goods, home purchase
assistance and mortgage assistance for three years. A copy of the Company s relocation policy will be provided under separate cover.         As a result of requiring relocation at your time of hire, you will be eligible for a loss-on-sale assistance on the sale of your primary residence due to the current adverse housing market conditions. If
the appraised value offer for your primary residence is less than or equal to $1.2 million, loss-on-sale protection of $500,000, plus tax assistance, will be made to offset a portion of your losses incurred on the sale. If the appraised value offer
for your primary residence is greater than $1.2 million, loss-on-sale protection equal to   (i)   $500,000 less (ii) the appraised value offer in excess of $1.2 million, plus tax assistance, will be made to offset a portion of
your losses incurred on the sale. For this purpose, the appraised value offer will be determined in accordance with the Company s relocation policy.   

Maura Smith      March 17, 2011      Page 4   

Deferred Compensation Program     You will be eligible to participate in the PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program (the
 EIDP ), a non-qualified program that gives you the opportunity to defer a significant portion of your cash compensation. A copy of the most recent EIDP summary will be provided to you shortly after your Start Date along with EIDP election
forms that must be completed and returned within 60 days of your Start Date to effectuate deferral elections for your 2011 base salary.          

Benefits     You will be eligible to participate in PepsiCo s benefit plans for salaried employees, which require employee
contributions based on benefit choices. If elected, your health care coverage and life/accident insurance are effective upon your Start Date and disability protection will be effective after 90 days of employment. In addition, you will be
eligible to receive from PepsiCo an automatic retirement contribution to the PepsiCo Savings Plan based on your age and years of service. You will also be eligible to make contributions to the PepsiCo Savings Plan and receive PepsiCo matching
contributions. You will also be eligible to participate in the PepsiCo Stock Purchase Program and other benefit programs that may, from time to time, be applicable to the Company s salaried employees. A benefits book containing summaries of
PepsiCo s benefit plans will be mailed to you shortly after your Start Date. Descriptions of these plans are also available on the Company s website at: www.pepsicoemployee.com.      

Executive Car Program     You will be eligible to participate in PepsiCo s Executive Car Program. Under the terms of this
program, you will receive a cash allowance to help cover the cost of your personal automobile. The current annual cash allowance for your level is $25,350 (payable bi-weekly), less applicable taxes.      

Insider Trading Policy     As a result of your new role, you will be subject to PepsiCo s Insider Trading Policy. As such, you
may only perform transactions in PepsiCo Common Stock during defined window periods and after obtaining approval from the PepsiCo Law Department and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo. You will receive further information on
PepsiCo s Insider Trading Policy shortly after your Start Date.          

Ownership Guidelines     As a result of your new role, you will be subject to PepsiCo s Stock Ownership Guidelines. As such, you
will be required to own shares of PepsiCo Common Stock equal to two times your annual base salary, as in effect from time to time, within five years of your Start Date. PepsiCo shares or equivalents held by you or your immediate family members, in
the 401(k) plan, deferred compensation program or in a trust for the benefit of immediate family members count towards satisfying the requirement. Unexercised stock options and unvested PSUs and RSUs do not count towards satisfying the
requirement.          

Exercise and Hold Policy     As a result of your new role, you will be subject to PepsiCo s Exercise and Hold Policy. As such,
the aggregate amount of cash that you may receive upon the exercise of stock options during each calendar year is limited to 20% of the pre-tax gains on all vested outstanding options as of February 1 of that year. You will be exempt from this
requirement once you have met, and continue to meet, your ownership level under PepsiCo s Ownership Guidelines.      

Maura Smith      March 17, 2011      Page 5      The above describes the terms of your offer and some of the terms of PepsiCo s compensation and benefit programs. The terms and conditions of all compensation and benefits are governed by the
official plan documents, as well as actions of the Board of Directors and its Compensation Committee, and such plans and programs are subject to change or termination by PepsiCo at any time without notice.   
  This offer of employment is contingent upon satisfactory passage of a background check and drug screening, and you returning a signed Employee
Confidentiality and Intellectual Property Agreement. An employment application and relevant forms to complete the pre-employment process will be forwarded to you upon your acceptance of this offer. By signing below, you represent that your
employment with PepsiCo will not conflict with or result in your breach of any agreement to which you are a party or by which you are bound. As with all PepsiCo executives, your employment is at-will, meaning you or the Company may terminate your
employment at any time.      Maura, we are excited at the prospect of you joining our team and are confident you will make a significant impact at
PepsiCo. Please acknowledge your acceptance of the above offer by signing below and returning this letter to me.      Sincerely,   

/s/ Cynthia M. Trudell    

Cynthia Trudell, EVP, Human Resources   Chief Personnel Officer   

</EX-10.65>

<EX-10.68>
 3
 d269581dex1068.htm
 THE PEPSICO INTERNATIONAL RETIREMENT PLAN DEFINED BENEFIT PROGRAM

The PepsiCo International Retirement Plan Defined Benefit Program 

Exhibit 10.68    
       
       THE PEPSICO INTERNATIONAL
RETIREMENT PLAN        DEFINED BENEFIT PROGRAM        (PIRP-DB)        As Amended and Restated    
   Effective as of January 1, 2010        

TABLE OF CONTENTS     

i   

ii   

ARTICLE I   HISTORY AND GENERAL INFORMATION     
  The Plan came into operation on and took effect from September 1, 1980, and was comprised of the  PepsiCo International
Retirement Plan Trust Indenture  and the  Plan Rules , and was later amended and restated in its entirety, effective September 2, 1982.      The Plan was further amended and restated in its entirety, effective October 1, 2003, whereupon the Plan Rules became the  Plan A Rules  (applicable to benefits funded by the
Corporation s contributions to the trust established by the PepsiCo International Retirement Plan Trust Indenture) and the  Plan B Rules  (applicable to benefits funded by the Corporation as they arise) took effect.   
  The Plan was further amended effective January 1, 2005, so that no person subject to taxation in the United States of America may in
any way have their right to a benefit from the Plan come into existence, increase or in any way be enhanced, but instead will be determined as if they had left the Corporation and any Associated Company permanently before becoming subject to U.S.
taxation.      Effective January 1, 2010 (the  Restatement Date ), the Plan A Rules and Plan B Rules were amended
and restated in their entirety to form a single governing legal document, as set forth herein. The terms of the Plan set forth in this amended and restated governing legal document are known as the  DB Program  (also known as
 PIRP-DB ). This amended and restated governing legal document shall apply to Members who are in Membership from and after the Restatement Date, as well as any others who claim rights from and after the Restatement Date that are derived
from current or former Membership, including former Members and the Dependants and Eligible Spouses of Members and former Members. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the amendment and restatement of this Plan, the supersession of the
prior documents by this Plan, and the prior existence of separate Plan A and Plan B Rules shall not at any time result in any duplication of benefits (nor shall duplication of benefits result from any other factor or circumstance related to this
Plan or any prior version of this Plan).      Effective January 1, 2011, the Corporation established a new defined
contribution structure under the Plan (the  DC Program  also known as  PIRP-DC ). The DC Program will benefit selected international employees for whom the DC Program has been determined to be appropriate from among (i)
employees who are on assignments outside of their home countries and for whom it is judged to be impracticable to have them participate in their home country retirement plans, and (ii) employees who are among a selected group of senior
globalists on United States tax equalized packages. The terms of the DC Program are set forth in a separate governing legal document. Together, the DC Program and the DB Program set forth the terms of a single Plan.   
         1   

At all times, the Plan is unfunded and unsecured for purposes of the United States Internal
Revenue Code and Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ). The benefits of an executive are an obligation of that executive s individual employer. With respect to his employer, the executive has the rights
of an unsecured general creditor. The Plan is also intended to be exempt from ERISA as a plan maintained outside of the United States primarily for the benefit of persons substantially all of whom are nonresident aliens of the United States.
  
         2   

ARTICLE II   DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION     
   2.01 Definitions.    
  Where the following words and phrases appear in this governing legal document for the DB Program, they shall have the meaning set forth
below, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:      (a)   Active Member  
means a who is currently eligible to accrue Pensionable Service under the DB Program; accordingly, it refers to a Member who has been admitted or re-admitted to Membership pursuant to Article III, but who has not retired on Pension, withdrawn from
or otherwise ceased to be (or to be deemed to be) in Service as an Eligible Employee, or for any other reason ceased to be eligible to accrue Pensionable Service for the purpose of the DB Program.   
  (b)   Actuary   means the individual actuary or firm of actuaries selected by the Vice President to provide
actuarial services in connection with the administration of the DB Program.      (c)   Annuity Starting
Date   means the first day of the first month for which a Pension is payable as an annuity or in any other form.      (d)   Approved Transfer   means any of the following that are initiated or approved by the Corporation or (with the approval of the Corporation) by a Member s Employer  
     (1) The Member s transfer to employment based in the United States or its territories;   
  (2) The Member s secondment to a work location in the United States or its territories;   
  (3) Any other change in the Member s employment circumstances that will cause the Member to become a U.S. Person.
     (e)   Associated Company   means any company or undertaking which (i) is directly or
indirectly controlled by or associated in business with the Corporation, and (ii) which has agreed, subject to the ongoing consent of the Vice President, to perform and observe the conditions, stipulations and provisions of the DB Program and
to be included among the Employers under the DB Program.  Associated Companies  means all such companies or undertakings.      (f)   Corporation   means PepsiCo, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of North Carolina, or its successor or successors.   
         3   

(g)  Dependant  means the person who shall receive any amounts
with respect to a Member s Pension payable upon the Member s death, in such cases where the Member s Pension is payable in one of the forms of payment under Sections 5.02 and 5.03 that include a survivor option.   
  (h)   DB Program   means the portion of the Plan that provides a program of defined benefits and that is
described in the governing legal document entitled  The PepsiCo International Retirement Plan Defined Benefit Program (PIRP-DB),  as it may be amended from time to time. The DB Program is also sometimes referred to as  PIRP-DB. 
     (i)   DC Program   means the portion of the Plan that provides a program of defined
contributions and that is described in the governing legal document entitled  The PepsiCo International Retirement Plan Defined Contribution Program (PIRP-DC),  as it may be amended from time to time. The DC Program is also sometimes
referred to as  PIRP-DC.       (j)   Eligible Employee   means an individual who the Vice
President has determined (i) is a full-time salaried Third Country National employed exclusively outside of the United States of America on the regular staff of an Approved Employer, and (ii) is not currently designated by the Vice
President as in a position that can make him eligible to earn  pay credits  under the DC Program. The Vice President shall have the discretion to designate as an Eligible Employee a part-time employee who, but for his part-time status,
otherwise satisfies the requirements of the preceding sentence.      (k)   Eligible Spouse   means
the individual to whom the Member is married on the earlier of the Member s Annuity Starting Date or the date of the Member s death. The determination of whether a Member is married shall be made by the Vice President based on the law of
the Member s principal residence; provided, however, that for purposes of the DB Program, a Member shall have only one Eligible Spouse.      (l)   Employers   means the Corporation and any and every Associated Company or such one or more of any of them as the context shall determine or the circumstances require.
 Employer  in relation to any person means whichever it is of the Employers in whose employment that person is or was at the relevant time or those Employers (if more than one) in whose employment he had been during the relevant period. An
 Approved Employer  means an Employer that, as of the time in question, has been approved by the Vice President (and remains approved) to have its Eligible Employees become and continue as Active Members under the DB Program.   
  (m)   Entry Date   means September 1, 1980 and the first day of each subsequent month.   
  (n)   Members   means all Eligible Employees who have been admitted to Membership pursuant to Article III
and who remain entitled to a benefit under the DB Program. In relation to each of the Employers, any reference to Members means those Members in or formerly in its employment. References to  Membership  are references to the status of
being a Member.   
         4   

(o)   Normal Retirement Age   means age 65 or, if later, the
age at which a Member first has five (5) years of Service.      (p)   Normal Retirement Date  
means in relation to a Member the first day of the month coincident with or immediately following the Member s Normal Retirement Age.      (q)   Pension   means a series of level monthly payments or single lump sum payment payable to a person who is entitled to receive benefits under the DB Program.   
  (r)   Pensionable Service   means in relation to a Member the period, or where appropriate the aggregate of
periods, of a Member s Service as an Eligible Employee of an Approved Employer, which is counted for purposes of determining the amount of benefits under the DB Program payable to, or on behalf of, a Member. Pensionable Service shall also
include any other period of employment with a member of the PepsiCo Organization or any Employer for which the Vice President determines to give credit under the DB Program to the Member. Absent special circumstances, as determined by the Vice
President, such other period of such prior period of employment will only be counted as Pensionable Service if such Employer maintained a retirement plan to which it made contributions on behalf of eligible employees.   
  (s)   Plan   means the PepsiCo International Retirement Plan, which as of January 1, 2011 consists of
the DB Program and DC Program.      (t)   PepsiCo Organization   means the controlled group of
organizations of which the Corporation is a part, as defined by U.S. Internal Revenue Code section 414 and regulations issued thereunder. An entity shall only be considered a member of the PepsiCo Organization during the period it is one of the
group of organizations described in the preceding sentence.      (u)   PepsiCo Salaried Plan   means
the PepsiCo Salaried Employees Retirement Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.      (v)
  Salary   means in relation to a Member his calendar year base pay, plus overtime pay, commission payments and amounts paid pursuant to the incentive compensation plans (annual bonus plans) of an Employer, but shall exclude  
     (1) Any pay that would ordinarily qualify as Salary as described above to the extent it is earned by the
Member (i) while working for the PepsiCo Organization or any Employer in the United States, (ii) while participating in the PepsiCo Salaried Plan, and/or (iii) while a U.S. Person, and   
         5   

(2) All other amounts taxable as remuneration for personal services,
including amounts received or deemed received under any other pension or welfare plan maintained by a member of the PepsiCo Organization or any Employer, premium bonuses, sign-on bonus or other one-time payments, income from stock option exercises
and any special allowances (whether given in respect of residence, cost of living, education, transfer or otherwise).      If a
Member has Salary in accordance with the prior sentence and then ceases to be employed by an Employer (but the Member remains employed by a member of the PepsiCo Organization), compensation while employed by the member of the PepsiCo Organization
that otherwise would qualify as Salary hereunder shall be considered Salary for purposes of the DB Program. In the event a Member s Salary is paid in currency other than United States dollars, such currency shall be converted to United States
dollars according to procedures established by the Global Mobility Team, or if no so such procedures exist as of the time in question, as reasonably determined by the Vice President. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, the
Vice President may exercise his discretion to determine a Member s Salary based on an alternative definition that is different than that set forth above.      (w)   Service   means in relation to a Third Country National (or other employee deemed an Eligible Employee by the Vice President) only the period during which such Third Country National
(or such other employee) was continuously in employment (including all permissible periods of authorized leave of absence) with any Approved Employer. A permissible period of authorized leave of absence is a period of absence of not more than 12
months, unless a longer period is individually authorized in writing by the Vice President. A break in service of less than 12 months shall not be considered to have broken the continuity of a Member s Service. Other breaks in service
(including a break in service of at least 12 months and a break in service before an individual has become a Member) shall break the continuity of an individual s Service, and employment before the break in service will only be counted as
Service if it would otherwise qualify under this subsection and the Vice President approves its being counted (which approval may provide for such pre-break employment being counted as vesting Service, entitlement Service, or both). Vesting Service
means Service that is taken into account solely in determining vesting, and entitlement Service means Service that is taken into account solely in determining entitlement for Early Retirement, Normal Retirement and Late Retirement.   
  For an individual who transfers from employment with an Employer as an ineligible Employee to the status of an Eligible
Employee of an Employer, his pre-transfer period of employment with an Employer may be counted as Service only with the approval of the Vice President (which approval may provide for such pre-transfer employment being counted as vesting Service,
entitlement Service, or both).      Except as otherwise provided by the Vice President, Service shall not include
an individual s periods of employment with any company or undertaking prior to it becoming an Employer or a member of the PepsiCo Organization.   
         6   

No determination of an individual s Service shall result in any
duplication, and all of the DB Program s provisions shall at all times be interpreted consistently with the terms of this subsection.      (x)   Status Change   means any change in a Member s circumstances (other than a change in circumstances that constitutes an Approved Transfer) that will cause the Member to become a
U.S. Person.      (y)   Third Country National   means any individual who is not: (1) a U.S.
Person, (2) employed in his home country, (3) employed in his hire country, except as permitted by the Vice President, nor (4) accruing benefits under a retirement plan sponsored by his Employer in his home country while abroad. An
individual s home or hire country as of any time shall be the country that is designated at that time as the individual s home or hire country, respectively, on the records of the applicable entity (which shall be the Global Mobility Team,
its successor (if any) or such other group within the PepsiCo Organization that is designated for this purpose by the Vice President), or is so designated in accordance with such rules as the applicable entity shall choose to apply from time to
time. The records described in the preceding sentence are intended to be maintained outside the United States of America.      (z)   U.S. Person   means: (1) a citizen of the United States of America; (2) a person lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States of America at any time during
the calendar year, or who has applied for such permanent residence (within the meaning of United States Internal Revenue Code section 7701(b)(1)(A)); or (3) any other person who is a resident alien of the United States of America under United
States Internal Revenue Code section 7701(b)(l)(A) because, for example, the person satisfies the substantial presence test under United States Internal Revenue Code section 7701 (b)(3) or makes an election to be treated as a United States resident
under United States Internal Revenue Code section 7701(b)(4).      (aa)   Vice President   means the
Vice President of Benefits of PepsiCo, Inc.       2.02 Construction.    
  (a)  Gender and Number : In this document for the DB Program where the context does not otherwise determine, words
importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender and words importing the singular number shall include the plural number and vice versa.   
  (b)  Determining Periods of Years:  For the purposes of the DB Program, any period of 365
consecutive days (or of 366 consecutive days, if the period includes 29   th    February) shall be deemed to constitute a year, but not so that in the calculation of a number of years any day is counted more than once. Where the amount of a benefit depends upon the calculation of a
number of years or months without expressly requiring that these should be complete years or months, a proportionate amount ( i.e. , a number of days) may be given for any part of a year or month which would not otherwise be
  
         7   

included in the calculation. Where the this document makes reference to months or parts of a year, or to any other period of time except a day, week or year the Vice President may authorize the
period to be counted in days or complete calendar months with each calendar month counted as l/12th of a year.   
  (c)  Compounds of the Word  Here :  The words  hereof and  hereunder  and other similar
compounds of the word  here  shall mean and refer to the entire DB Program, not to any particular provision or section.      (d)  Examples:  Whenever an example is provided or the text uses the term  including  followed by a specific item or items, or there is a passage having a similar effect, such passages of
the document shall be construed as if the phrase  without limitation  followed such example or term (or otherwise applied to such passage in a manner that avoids limitation on its breadth of application).   
  (e)  Subdivisions of This Document:  This document is divided and subdivided using the following progression:
articles, sections, subsections, paragraphs, subparagraphs and clauses. Articles are designated by capital roman numerals. Sections are designated by Arabic numerals containing a decimal point. Subsections are designated by lower-case letters in
parentheses. Paragraphs are designated by Arabic numerals in parentheses. Subparagraphs are designated by lower-case roman numerals in parentheses. Clauses are designated by upper-case letters in parentheses. Any reference in a section to a
subsection (with no accompanying section reference) shall be read as a reference to the subsection with the specified designation contained in that same section. A similar rule shall apply with respect to paragraph references within a subsection and
subparagraph references within a paragraph.   
         8   

ARTICLE III   MEMBERSHIP     
   3.01 Eligibility for Membership.       Every person who the Vice President determines is an Eligible Employee shall be eligible for Membership.       3.02 Admission to Membership.       (a) Every person who was an
Active Member of the DB Program immediately prior to the Restatement Date shall continue as an Active Member of the DB Program from and after the Restatement Date, to the extent such Active Membership is consistent with the provisions of the DB
Program, as amended and in effect on and after the Restatement Date. In addition, every persons who was a Member but not an Active Members immediately prior to the Restatement Date shall continue as a Member of the DB Program from and after the
Restatement Date, to the extent such Membership is consistent with the provisions of the DB Program, as amended and in effect on and after the Restatement Date.      (b) Every person who is not a Member and who the Vice President deterrnines is an Eligible Employee shall, following the approval of his Membership by the Vice President, be admitted to Membership,
effective as of the Entry Date coinciding with or immediately following the date on which his Service commences or he becomes an Eligible Employee (as determined by the Vice President), whichever is later. No Eligible Employee or any other person
shall be admitted to Membership without the approval of the Vice President.   
         9   

ARTICLE IV   REQUIREMENTS FOR BENEFITS     
   4.01 Normal Retirement Pension.       A Member shall be entitled to a Normal Retirement Pension if his employment with both his Employer and the PepsiCo Organization terminates on his Normal Retirement Age. The Member s Annuity Starting
Date shall be the first day of the month coincident with or immediately following the day the Member terminates employment with both his Employer and the PepsiCo Organization. The Member s Pension shall be paid in the normal form of payment
applicable to the Member under Section 5.02 unless the Member elects an optional form of payment under Section 5.03. The Member s Pension shall be calculated in accordance with Table A.   
   4.02 Early Retirement Pension.       A Member shall be entitled to an Early Retirement Pension if his employment with both his Employer and the PepsiCo Organization terminates on or after age 55 but before his Normal Retirement Age, and
after he has completed 10 or more years of Service. The Member s Annuity Starting Date ordinarily shall be his Normal Retirement Date. The Member may, however, by filing a written election with the Vice President, direct that his Annuity
Starting Date shall be the first day of any month after the Member terminates employment with both his Employer and the PepsiCo Organization but before the Member s Normal Retirement Date. The amount of such Pension shall be computed in
accordance with Table A as if the Member retired at his Normal Retirement Date, but on the basis of the Member s Highest Average Monthly Salary (as defined in Table A) and Pensionable Service as of his employment termination date; provided,
however, that, in the case of a Member electing to receive his Pension prior to attaining his Normal Retirement Date, the amount of his Pension shall be reduced by 4/12 of 1 percent for each month by which the day on which the Pension commences
precedes the date on which the Member would have attained age 62.       4.03 Special Early Retirement Pension.    
  A Member may be entitled to receive a Special Early Retirement Pension if his employment with both his Employer and the PepsiCo
Organization terminates on or after age 50 but before age 55 and after completion of not less than 10 years of Service and only if such Special Early Retirement Pension payments have been authorized by the Vice President. The Annuity Starting Date
of such Special Early Retirement Pension shall be the first day of the month after the Vice President authorizes such Special Early Retirement Pension. The amount of such Pension shall be computed in accordance with Table A, as if the Member retired
at his Normal Retirement Date, but on the basis of the Member s Highest Average Monthly Salary (as defined in Table A) and Pensionable Service as of his employment termination date; provided, however, that the amount of such Member s
Pension so determined shall be reduced by 4/12 of 1 percent for each month by which the day on which the Pension commences precedes the date on which the Member would have attained age 62.   
         10   

(a) This Section 4.04 applies to a Member who terminates employment with both his Employer and the PepsiCo Organization before becoming eligible for a Normal Retirement Pension, Early Retirement
Pension or Special Early Retirement Pension.      (b) A Member described in (a) above who has met one of the
requirement to be vested in Sections 4.06 and 4.07 shall be entitled to receive a Pension (hereinafter referred to as a  Deferred Vested Pension ). The amount of such Deferred Vested Pension shall be determined in accordance with Table A;
provided, however, that in the case of a Member who remains in the employment of the PepsiCo Organization or any Employer after ceasing to be an Active Member, the amount of such Member s Deferred Vested Pension shall be determined in
accordance with Table A by reference to (i) the Member s Highest Average Monthly Salary at the date the Member terminates employment with both his Employer and the PepsiCo Organization (but only to the extent permitted under Sections 9.13
and 9.14), and (ii) the Member s Pensionable Service as of his termination of employment date.      (c) A
Member s Deferred Vested Pension shall commence at the later of (i) the Member s termination of employment with both his Employer and the PepsiCo Organization, or (ii) the Member s Normal Retirement Date. However, a Member
may elect, by filing a written election with the Vice President to have his Deferred Vested Pension commence as of the first day of any month after the date he attains age 55 (or the date of his termination of employment with both his Employer and
the PepsiCo Organization, if later). In the case of a Member electing to receive his Deferred Vested Pension prior to attaining his Normal Retirement Date, the amount of his Pension shall be reduced in accordance with the reduction factors
applicable to early commencement of a  Vested Pension  under the PepsiCo Salaried Plan, not the percentage factors which apply to an Early and Special Early Retirement Pension as described in Sections 4.02 and 4.03.   
  (d) If Member becomes entitled to a Deferred Vested Pension under subsection (a) above and once again becomes an
Eligible Employee, he shall be re-admitted to Active Membership in accordance with the provisions of Article III. His Service and Pensionable Service from his earlier period as an Active Member shall be aggregated with his subsequent period of
Service and Pensionable Service for purposes of calculating his Pension upon his later retirement or other termination of employment with both his Employer and the PepsiCo Organization, but only if his Pension with respect to his earlier period of
Pensionable Service was not previously cashed out under Section 5.05.       4.05 Late Retirement Pension.    
  A Member who continues employment with the PepsiCo Organization or any Employer after his Normal Retirement Age shall be entitled to a
Late Retirement Pension. The Member s Annuity Starting Date shall be the first day of the month coincident with or immediately following the day the Member terminates employment with both his Employer and the PepsiCo Organization. The Member
shall be credited with his Salary and Pensionable Service after his Normal Retirement Date, unless otherwise prospectively determined by the Vice President.   
         11   

4.06 Vesting.       Subject to Section 9.14 and to Table A (I)(c), a Member shall be fully vested in, and have a nonforfeitable right to, his Pension upon completing 5 years of Service, or if earlier, upon the death or
disability of the Member while employed by the Employer or PepsiCo Organization. The determination of whether a Member has become disabled for this purpose shall be made by the Vice President in accordance with such standards that the Vice President
deems to be appropriate as of the time in question.       4.07 Special Vesting for Approved Transfers and Status Changes.    
  (a)  Automatic Special Vesting for Approved Transfers.  Notwithstanding Section 4.06 above, in the case of an
Active Member who will have an Approved Transfer during a Plan Year, the Active Member shall automatically have special vesting apply as of the last business day before the earlier of (a) the Active Member s Approved Transfer, or
(b) the day the Active Member would become a U.S. Person in connection with the Approved Transfer.      (b)
 Special Vesting for Status Changes . Also notwithstanding Section 4.06 above, in the case of an Active Member who will have a Status Change, the Active Member may request that the Vice President apply special vesting to him as of the last
business day before the Active Member s Status Change. In order for special vesting related to a Status Change to be valid and effective under the DB Program, the Active Member s request and the Vice President s approval of the
request must both be completely final and in place prior to the date that the special vesting applies.      The effect of special vesting applying
to a Member in accordance with either subsection (a) or (b) above is that the Member will become vested, to the same extent as could apply under Section 4.06 if the Member vested under that Section, as of the date that the special
vesting applies.       4.08 Accruals After Benefit Commencement.       This section applies to a Member who earns Service and Pensionable Service for a period that is after his Annuity Starting Date under the preceding Sections of this Article IV (other than an Annuity
Starting Date related to a cashout distribution under Section 5.05). Any prior benefits that have been suspended, and any additional benefits accrued by Member after his prior benefit commencement, shall be paid at his subsequent Annuity
Starting Date. The suspension or continuation of a Member s prior benefits, any adjustments to the Member s benefits that are payable upon his subsequent Annuity Starting Date, and the election of a time and form of payment for benefits
payable at the subsequent Annuity Starting Date, shall be subject to rules established by the Vice President for this purpose. Such rules shall be based upon the PepsiCo Salaried Plan s rules for benefits accrued after the benefit commencement
date of a participant in that plan, unless the Vice President determines that a modification of those rules is appropriate.   
         12   

ARTICLE V   DISTRIBUTION OPTIONS     
   5.01 Distribution Options.       (a) Section 5.02 sets forth the normal forms of payment for married and unmarried Members. For purposes of Section 5.02, a Member is considered married if he is married on his Annuity Starting
Date.      (b) Section 5.03 sets forth the optional forms of payment that may be available to married and
unmarried Members who elect not to receive benefits in the normal form. For purposes of Section 5.03, a Member will also be considered married if he is married on the date he elects an optional form of payment.   
  (c) A distribution is only available under this Article V to the extent a Member has met the requirements for benefits
under Article IV.       5.02 Normal Forms of Payment.    
  (a)  Single Life Annuity for Unmarried Members : An unmarried Member shall be paid his Pension in the form of a
Single Life Annuity unless he elects otherwise in accordance with Section 5.03. The Single Life Annuity provides monthly payments beginning at the Member s Annuity Starting Date and ending with the last monthly payment due prior to the
Member s death.      (b)  50 Percent Survivor Annuity for Married Members : A married Member shall be
paid his Pension in the form of a 50 Percent Survivor Annuity, as described herein, unless he elects otherwise in accordance with Section 5.03. The 50 Percent Survivor Annuity provides reduced monthly payments beginning at the Member s
Annuity Starting Date and ending with the last monthly payment due prior to the Member s death, with a 50 percent contingent survivor annuity for the benefit of his Eligible Spouse beginning on the first day of the month following the
Member s death and ending with the last monthly payment due prior to the death of the Eligible Spouse. Subject to Section 5.03(g), the amount of the Member s Pension, determined in accordance with Table A, shall be reduced by 10
percent. In the case of a Member who became entitled to a Pension under Section IV of the Plan, as in effect prior to January 1, 1990, the Member s Pension accrued as of such date shall not be subject to this reduction to the extent
provided under the Plan s terms as of such date.       5.03 Optional Forms of Payment.    
  (a)  Optional Forms Available to Married Members : A married Member who elects not to receive benefits in the normal
form may receive his Pension in the form of the Single Life Annuity described in Section 5.02(a) above or the 75 Percent Survivor Annuity described in (b)(2) below, regardless of whether he is eligible for the optional forms of payment
described in (b), (c) and (d) below.   
         13   

(b)  Survivor Options : A married or unmarried Member who elects not to
receive benefits in the normal form may elect to receive payment of his Pension in accordance with one of the survivor options listed below. Such election shall be made on such form and during such period prior to commencement of the Member s
Pension as may be required by the Vice President. The Member also may designate, prior to commencement, a Dependant to receive the survivor portion of his elected survivor option on such form as may be required by the Vice President; provided,
however, that (1) the approval of the Vice President shall be necessary if the Member designates a Dependant other than the Member s Eligible Spouse; and (2) if a married Member elects an option described in this subsection
(b) and names a Dependant other than his Eligible Spouse, he must submit written evidence of the Eligible Spouse s consent to such option and designation of a Dependant. A Member may not change his form of benefit or Dependant after his
Pension has commenced.      (1)  100 Percent Survivor Option : The Member shall receive a reduced Pension
payable for his life and payments in the same reduced amount shall continue after the Member s death to his Dependant for life. Subject to subsection (f) below, the amount of the Member s reduced Pension is determined by reducing the
amount of the Member s Single Life Annuity benefit, determined in accordance with Table A, by 20 percent. In the case of a Member who became entitled to a Pension under the Plan as in effect prior to January 1, 1990, the above Pension
reduction may be subject to a subsidy, as determined by the Vice President.      (2)  75 Percent Survivor
Option : The Member shall receive a reduced Pension payable for his life and payments in the amount of 75 percent of such reduced Pension shall continue after the Member s death to his Dependant for life. Subject to subsection
(f) below, the amount of the Member s reduced Pension is determined by reducing the amount of the Member s Single Life Annuity benefit, determined in accordance with Table A, by 15 percent. In the case of a Member who became entitled
to a Pension under the Plan as in effect prior to January 1, 1990, the above Pension reduction may be subject to a subsidy, as determined by the Vice President.   
  (3)  50 Percent Survivor Option : The Member shall receive a reduced Pension payable for his life and payments in the
amount of 50 percent of such reduced Pension shall continue after the Member s death to his Dependant for life. Subject to subsection (f) below, the amount of the Member s reduced Pension is determined by reducing the amount of the
Member s Single Life Annuity benefit, determined in accordance with Table A, by 10 percent. In the case of a Member who became entitled to a Pension under the Plan as in effect prior to January 1, 1990, his Pension shall not be subject to
this reduction.   
         14   

(4)  Ten-Year Certain and Life Option : Subject to Section 5.04, a
Member may elect to receive a reduced Pension payable monthly for his lifetime but for not less than 120 months. If the Member dies before 120 payments have been made, the monthly Pension amount shall be paid for the remainder of the 120-month
period to the Member s primary Dependant (if the primary Dependant has predeceased the Member, to the Member s contingent Dependant; and if there is no contingent Dependant, to the Member s estate). If post-death payments commence to
a Member s primary or contingent Dependant and such Dependant dies before all remaining payments due have been made, then the remaining payments shall be paid to such Dependant s estate. Effective as of the Restatement Date, the
Member s Dependant or estate (as applicable) may elect by following the procedures set forth by the Vice President for this purpose, instead to receive a single lump sum payment that is the actuarial equivalent of the remaining payments due to
such Dependant or estate (but computed without reduction for mortality), determined as of the date on which the lump sum payment is processed by the Vice President. The amount of the Member s reduced Pension is determined by reducing the
Member s Single Life Annuity benefit, determined in accordance with Table A, by 5 percent.      (c)  Lump
Sum Payment : Subject to Section 5.04, a Member who elects not to receive benefits in the normal form may elect to receive payment of his Pension in the form of a single lump sum payment. The amount of the single lump sum payment shall be
the actuarial equivalent of the Single Life Annuity, determined in accordance with Table A, utilizing the lump sum equivalent factors applicable to lump sum distributions under the PepsiCo Salaried Plan, calculated as of the date payments would have
commenced under the normal form of benefit or other optional benefit. The lump sum payment shall be made in one taxable year of the Member and shall be paid as soon as practicable after the date specified by the Member in his written election.
Effective for lump sum payments due to be paid on or after the Restatement Date, interest will be added to late lump sum payments in accordance with the administrative practices of the PepsiCo Salaried Plan. No interest shall be payable on such sum
during any such deferred period specified by the Member.      (d)  Combination Lump Sum/Monthly Benefit :
Subject to Section 5.04, a married or unmarried Member who elects not to receive his Pension in the normal form may elect to receive payment of his Pension in the form of a combination lump sum/monthly benefit option. If elected, the Member
shall receive a portion of his benefit in the form of a lump sum payment, and the remaining portion in the form of one of the monthly benefits described in Sections 5.02 and 5.03. The benefit shall be divided between the two forms of payment based
on the whole number percentages designated by the Member on a form provided for this purpose. To be effective, the two percentages designated by the Member must add to 100 percent.   
  (1) The amount of the benefit paid in the form of a lump sum is determined by multiplying: (A) the amount determined
under Section 5.03(c) by (B) the percentage that the Member has designated for receipt in the form of a lump sum.   
         15   

(2) The amount of the benefit paid in the form of a monthly benefit is
determined by multiplying: (A) the amount of the monthly benefit elected by the Member, determined in accordance with Sections 5.03(a) or (b), by (B) the percentage that the Member has designated for receipt in the form of a monthly
benefit.      (e)  Death Prior to Pension Becoming Payable : If a Member who is entitled to an immediate
Pension under Article IV elects an optional form of payment under this Section 5.03, if such election meets all requirements to be effective (other than the Member s survival, but including the time for making the election and any
necessary Eligible Spouse s consent), and thereafter the Member dies after leaving employment but before such Pension becomes payable, then on the first day of the month next following his death such optional form of payment shall be deemed to
be in effect. Such deemed effectiveness may only apply once and only to the initial election made by a Member (except as permitted by a decision of the Vice President that is made prior to the Member s submission of a subsequent purported
election). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of the option under Section 5.03(b), if the Member s specified Dependant has died or shall die before the date on which the first installment of the Member s Pension was
prospectively payable in accordance with the optional form of payment elected by the Member, the Member s election of such optional form shall not be given effect.   
  (f)  Reduction for Certain Younger Dependants : Notwithstanding the reduction factors specified in Sections 5.02(b)
and 5.03, a Member electing a form of payment that includes a survivor option shall have his Pension reduced in accordance with this subsection (f) in the event the Dependant under such survivor option is more than 10 years younger than the
Member.      (1)  Not More than 20 Years Younger : In the event the Dependant is more than 10 years younger
than the Member, but not more than 20 years younger, the percentage reduction that otherwise would apply shall be increased by 5 percentage points.      (2)  More than 20 Years Younger : In the event the Dependant is more than 20 years younger than the Member, the 5 percentage point increase in the reduction provided in (1) above shall be
further increased by an additional 0.2 percent for each full year over 20.       5.04 Applicability of Certain Options.    
  Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article V, the availability of certain distribution options shall be restricted in
accordance with the terms of this Section 5.04.      (a)  Pre-1990 Distributions : The form of payment
described in Section 5.03(d) above shall not be available unless the Member s Annuity Starting Date is after 1989.      |
  
         16   

(b)  Deferred Vested Pensions : Deferred Vested Pensions under
Section 4.04 shall be eligible for payment only under the Single Life Annuity, the 50 Percent Survivor Option or the 75 Percent Survivor Option.      (c)  Simplified Actuarial Factors : In the case of a Member who became entitled to a Pension prior to January 1, 1990, the actuarial equivalencies described in the preceding provisions of this
Article V shall be adjusted as provided by the Vice President from time to time to reflect the value of any subsidized survivor benefit to which the Member is entitled under the last sentence of Section 5.02(b) (regarding the availability on
favorable terms of the survivor benefit described in Section 5.02(b)).       5.05 Cashout of Small Benefits.    
  Where the total Pension payable to any person under the DB Program is, in the opinion of the Vice President, of an amount that is
relatively trivial (when considered by itself or in relation to the potential administrative burden of continuing to keep track of such Pension under the DB Program), he may commute the whole of such Pension to a lump sum payable following
(i) the relevant Member s termination of employment from both his Employer and the PepsiCo Organization, or (ii) a Member s transfer within the PepsiCo Organization that results in the Member ceasing to actively accrue all
benefits under the DB Program, on a date determined in the discretion of the Vice President, without the consent of the Member.       5.06
Designation of Dependant.       A Member who has elected to receive all or part of his pension in a form of payment that
includes a survivor option shall designate a Dependant who will be entitled to any amounts payable on his death. A Member shall have the right to change or revoke his Dependant designation at any time prior to the effective date of his election. If
the Member is married at the time he designates a Dependant, any designation under this section of a Dependant who is not the Member s Eligible Spouse shall require the written consent of the Member s Eligible Spouse. A revocation of a
Dependant does not require consent by the Member s Eligible Spouse. The designation of any Dependant, and any change or revocation thereof, and any written consent of a Member s Eligible Spouse required by this Section shall be made in
accordance with rules adopted by the Vice President, shall be made in writing on forms provided by the Vice President, and shall not be effective unless and until filed with the Vice President. In the case of the survivor option described in
Section 5.03(b)(4), the following shall apply: (i) the Member shall be entitled to name both a primary Dependant and a contingent Dependant, and (ii) if no Dependant is properly designated, then a Member s election of such option
will not be given effect.   
         17   

ARTICLE VI   DEATH BENEFITS     
  The surviving Eligible Spouse of a Member who dies shall be entitled to certain survivor benefits if the requirements of this Article VI
are satisfied. The amount of any such benefit shall be determined in accordance with Section II of Table A.       6.01 Active and
Retirement-Eligible Members.       In the event of the death of a married Active Member or a married Member in Service after his
Normal Retirement Date, who had at his death completed at least 5 years of Service, or of a Member entitled to an Early Retirement Pension under Section 4.02 or a Special Early Retirement Pension under Section 4.03, and who is not entitled
at the time of his death to the protection provided by Section 5.03(e), there shall be a Pre-Retirement Spouse s Pension payable to the Member s surviving Eligible Spouse, if any, calculated in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Table A.       6.02 Deferred Vested Members.       In the event of the death of a married Member who is entitled to a Deferred Vested Pension under Section 4.04 and who is not entitled at the time of his death to the protections provided by
Section 5.03(e), there shall be payable a Pre-Retirement Spouse s Pension, which shall be calculated based on the Member s Salary and Pensionable Service at the time of the Member s termination of employment date. The benefit
shall be calculated as if the Member lived until the earliest date the Member s vested benefit could have started, after having elected to start his benefit at that time in the form of a 50 Percent Survivor Annuity, and died that same day.
     Coverage for this Pre-Retirement Spouse s Pension shall be paid for with a reduction to the monthly benefit otherwise
payable to the Member. The reduction charged to the Member s benefit shall be calculated in accordance with the methodology, and based on the same factors, provided for under the PepsiCo Salaried Plan, as in effect from time to time. The Member
may only waive this Pre-Retirement Spouse s Pension coverage with the approval of the Vice President.       6.03 Form and Time of Payment
of Death Benefits.       (a)  Form of Payment:  Any Pension payable pursuant to this Article VI shall be
payable for the surviving Eligible Spouse s life only; however, in the case of a Pension payable to a surviving Eligible Spouse where the Member was eligible for a Normal, Early or Special Early Retirement Pension at death, the Eligible Spouse
may elect to receive the Pension in the form of a single lump sum payment in lieu of the annuity payment.      (b)
 Time of Payment:  Subject to Section 6.04, any Pension payable to the Eligible Spouse under this Article VI shall commence on the first day of the month coinciding with or next following the Member s death, or if later, the date on
which the   
         18   

Member would have attained age 55. In the event a Pension payable to a Member s Eligible Spouse commences before the Member would have reached Normal Retirement Age, the benefit will be
reduced as set forth in Section 4.02,4.03 or 4.04, as applicable based on the Pension to which the Member was entitled, to reflect early commencement.       6.04 Disposition of Death Benefits.       Any benefit expressed to be subject to
disposition in accordance with the provision of this Article VI shall be held by the Vice President with power to pay or apply the same to or for the benefit of such one or more of the Member s Dependants, as the Vice President shall think fit
and if more than one in such shares as they shall likewise think fit. Notwithstanding any other provision of the DC Program, the Vice President may direct that such benefit shall commence or be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable after the
Member s date of death.   
         19   

ARTICLE VII   ADMINISTRATION     
   7.01 Authority to Administer Plan.       (a)  Administration by the Vice President:  The Plan shall be administered by the Vice President, who shall have the authority to interpret the Plan and issue such regulations as he deems
appropriate. All actions by the Vice President hereunder may be taken in his sole discretion, and all interpretations, determinations and regulations made or issued by the Vice President shall be final and binding on all persons and parties
concerned.      (b)  Authority to Delegate:  The Vice President may delegate any of his responsibilities under
the Plan to other persons or entities, or designate or employ other persons to carry out any of his duties, responsibilities or other functions under the Plan. Any reference in the Plan to an action by the Vice President shall, to the extent
applicable, refer to such action by the Vice President s delegate or other designated person.       7.02 Facility of Payment.
      Whenever, in the opinion of the Vice President, a person entitled to receive any payment of a benefit or installment
thereof hereunder is under a legal disability or is incapacitated in any way so as to be unable to manage his financial affairs, the Vice President may direct that payments from the Plan be made to such person s legal representative for his
benefit, or that the payment be applied for the benefit of such person in such manner as the Vice President considers advisable. Any payment of a benefit or installment thereof in accordance with the provisions of this section shall be a complete
discharge of any liability for the making of such payment under the provisions of the Plan.       7.03 Claims Procedure.    
  The Vice President shall have the exclusive discretionary authority to construe and to interpret the Plan, to decide all questions of
eligibility for benefits and to determine the amount of such benefits, and his decisions on such matters are final and conclusive. As a result, benefits under this Plan will be paid only if the Vice President decides in his discretion that the
person claiming such benefits is entitled to them. This discretionary authority is intended to be absolute, and in any case where the extent of this discretion is in question, the Vice President is to be accorded the maximum discretion possible. Any
exercise of this discretionary authority shall be reviewed by a court, arbitrator or other tribunal under the arbitrary and capricious standard ( i.e ., the abuse of discretion standard). If, pursuant to this discretionary authority, an
assertion of any right to a benefit by or on behalf of a Member or Dependant (a  claimant ) is wholly or partially denied, the Vice President, or a party designated by the Vice President, will provide such claimant within the 90-day period
following the receipt of the claim by the Vice President, a comprehensible written notice setting forth:   
         20   

(1) The specific reason or reasons for such denial;   
  (2) Specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based;   
  (3) A description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to submit to perfect the claim and
an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and      (4) A description of the Plan s
claim review procedure (including the time limits applicable to such process).      If the Vice President determines that special
circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim he may extend the response period from 90 to 180 days. If this occurs, the Vice President will notify the claimant before the end of the initial 90-day period, indicating the
special circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Vice President expects to make the final decision. Upon review, the Vice President shall provide the claimant a full and fair review of the claim, including the opportunity to
submit to the Vice President comments, document, records and other information relevant to the claim and the Vice President s review shall take into account such comments, documents, records and information regardless of whether it was
submitted or considered at the initial determination. The decision on review will be made within 60 days after receipt of the request for review, unless circumstances warrant an extension of time not to exceed an additional 60 days. If this occurs,
notice of the extension will be furnished to the claimant before the end of the initial 60-day period, indicating the special circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Vice President expects to make the final decision. The
final decision shall be in writing and drafted in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant; include specific reasons for the decision with references to the specific Plan provisions on which the decision is based; and provide that the
claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to his or her claim for benefits.      Any claim under the Plan that is reviewed by a court, arbitrator or any other tribunal shall be reviewed solely on the basis of the record before the Vice President at the time it made its determination.
In addition, any such review shall be conditioned on the claimant s having fully exhausted all rights under this section.       7.04
Limitations on Actions.       Effective for claims and actions filed on or after January 1, 2011, any claim filed under
Article VII and any action filed in any court or other tribunal by or on behalf of a former or current Employee, Member, Dependant or any other individual, person or entity (collectively, a  Petitioner ) for the alleged wrongful denial of
Plan benefits must be brought within two years of the date the Petitioner s cause of action first accrues. For purposes of this subsection, a cause of action with respect to a Petitioner s benefits under the Plan shall be deemed to accrue
not later than earlier of (i) when the Petitioner has received the calculation of the benefits that are the subject of the claim or legal action; (ii) the date identified to the Petitioner by the Vice President on which payments shall
commence; or (ii) when he has actual or constructive knowledge of the   
         21   

facts that are the basis of his claim. Failure to bring any such claim or cause of action within this two-year time frame shall preclude a Petitioner, or any representative of the Petitioner,
from filing the claim or cause of action. Correspondence or other communications following the mandatory appeals process described above shall have no effect on this two-year time frame.       7.05 Restriction of Venue.       Any claim or action filed in court or any other
tribunal in connection with the Plan by or on behalf of a Petitioner shall only be brought or filed in the state or federal courts of New York, specifically the state or federal court, whichever applies, located nearest the Corporation s
headquarters, effective for claims and actions filed on or after January 1, 2011, or effective for claims filed pursuant to Section 7.03 on or after January 1, 2011 in the case of claims or actions that seek review of a claim filed
pursuant to Section 7.03.       7.06 Effect of Specific References.    
  Specific references in the Plan to the Vice President s discretion shall create no inference that the Vice President s
discretion in any other respect, or in connection with any other provision, is less complete or broad.   
         22   

ARTICLE VIII   AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION     
   8.01 Continuation of the Plan.       While the Corporation intends to continue the Plan indefinitely, it assumes no contractual obligation as to its continuance. The Corporation hereby reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to amend,
terminate, or partially terminate the Plan at any time provided, however, that no such amendment or termination shall adversely affect the amount of benefit to which a Member or his Dependant is entitled under the Plan on the date of such amendment
or termination, unless the Member becomes entitled to an amount equal to such benefit under another plan or practice adopted by the Corporation. Specific forms of payment are not protected under the preceding sentence.   
   8.02 Amendment.       The
Corporation may, in its sole discretion, make any amendment or amendments to the Plan from time to time, with or without retroactive effect, subject to Section 8.01. An Employer (other than the Corporation) shall not have the right to amend the
Plan.       8.03 Termination.       The Corporation may terminate the Plan, either as to its participation or as to the participation of one or more Employers. If the Plan is terminated with respect to fewer than all of the Employers, the
Plan shall continue in effect for the benefit of the employees of the remaining Employers.   
         23   

ARTICLE IX   MISCELLANEOUS     
   9.01 Unfunded Plan.       The
Employers  obligations under the Plan shall not be funded, but shall constitute liabilities by the Employer payable when due out of the Employer s general funds. To the extent a Member or any other person acquires a right to receive
benefits under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the rights of any unsecured general creditor of the Employer.       9.02 Costs of
the Plan.       Unless otherwise agreed by the Corporation, all costs, charges and expenses of or incidental to the
administration and management of the Plan shall be the costs, charges and expenses of the Employers and shall be paid by each Employer based on the proportion of Members who are employed by such Employer as compared to the total number of Members at
the time the cost or expense is incurred.       9.03 Temporary Absence of Member.    
  If a Member is absent from duty by reason other than death, discharge, retirement or quitting (e.g., sickness, accident, layoff,
vacation), he shall be deemed to have terminated employment on the date that is 12 months after the date on which he is absent, unless the Vice President determines otherwise. If the Member s absence from duty is by reason of his service as a
full-time member of the armed forces of any country or of any organization engaged in national service of any such country, he shall not be deemed to have terminated employment so long as he is regarded by the Employer as remaining in employment or
until he shall resign permanently from employment, whichever shall first occur.       9.04 Taxes, Etc.    
  In the event any tax or assessment or other duty is determined by the Vice President to be owing in respect of any benefit payable from
the Plan, the Plan shall be entitled to withhold an amount not exceeding the amount of any such tax or assessment or other duty from the benefit payable and shall apply the same in satisfaction of said tax or assessment or other duty.   
   9.05 Nonguarantee of Employment.       Nothing in the Plan shall be construed as a contract of employment between an Employer and any of its employees, or as a right of any such employee to continue in the employment of the Employer, or as a
limitation of the right of an Employer to discharge any of its employees, with or without cause.   
         24   

9.06 No Right to Benefits.       No person, whether or not being a Member, shall have any claim, right or interest under the Plan except as provided by the terms of the Plan. In the event of a Member s termination of employment by
an Employer, the resulting cessation of his Active Membership shall not be grounds for any damages or any increase in damages in any action brought against the Employer or any member of the PepsiCo Organization with respect to such termination.
      9.07 Charges on Benefits.       All benefits in respect of a Member under the Plan shall stand charged with and be subject to deductions therefrom of all sums in respect of losses to a member of the PepsiCo Organization or Employer or
otherwise caused by misdemeanor of the Member and on production by the member of the PepsiCo Organization or Employer of proof satisfactory to the Vice President that any such loss ought to be made good by a Member. The relevant amount shall be
deductible from the Member s benefits and be payable to the Employer or member of the PepsiCo Organization whose receipt shall be a valid discharge for the same.       9.08 Termination for Cause; Prohibited Misconduct.       (a)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if the Vice President determines that a Member has been terminated for cause or engaged in Prohibited Misconduct at any time prior to the second anniversary of the date his or her
employment with the PepsiCo Organization terminates, the Member shall forfeit his Pension (whether paid previously, being paid currently or payable in the future), and his or her Pension shall be adjusted to reflect such forfeiture and any
previously paid Pension payments shall be recovered. As a condition to Membership in this Plan, each Member agrees to this, and each Member agrees to repay PepsiCo the amounts it seeks to recover under this Section 9.08.   
  (b) Any of the following activities engaged in, directly or indirectly, by a Member shall constitute Prohibited
Misconduct:      (1) The Member accepting any employment, assignment, position or responsibility, or acquiring any
ownership interest, which involves the Member s  Participation  (as defined below) in a business entity that markets, sells, distributes or produces  Covered Products  (as defined below), unless such business entity makes
retail sales or consumes Covered Products without in any way competing with the PepsiCo Organization.      (2) The
Member, directly or indirectly (including through someone else acting on the Member s recommendation, suggestion, identification or advice), soliciting any PepsiCo Organization employee to leave the PepsiCo Organization s employment or to
accept any position with any other entity.   
         25   

(3) The Member using or disclosing to anyone any confidential information
regarding the PepsiCo Organization other than as necessary in his or her position with the PepsiCo Organization. Such confidential information shall include all non-public information the Member acquired as a result of his or her positions with the
PepsiCo Organization which might be of any value to a competitor of the PepsiCo Organization, or which might cause any economic loss or substantial embarrassment to the PepsiCo Organization or its customers, bottlers, distributors or suppliers if
used or disclosed. Examples of such confidential information include non-public information about the PepsiCo Organization s customers, suppliers, distributors and potential acquisition targets; its business operations and structure; its
product lines, formulas and pricing; its processes, machines and inventions; its research and know-how; its financial data; and its plans and strategies.      (4) The Member engaging in any acts that are considered to be contrary to the PepsiCo Organization s best interests, including violating the Corporation s Code of Conduct, engaging in unlawful
trading in the securities of the Corporation or of any other company based on information gained as a result of his or her employment with the PepsiCo Organization, or engaging in any other activity which constitutes gross misconduct.   
  (5) The Member engaging in any activity that constitutes fraud.   
  For purposes of this subsection,  Participation  shall be construed broadly to include: (i) serving as a director,
officer, employee, consultant or contractor with respect to such a business entity; (ii) providing input, advice, guidance or suggestions to such a business entity; or (iii) providing a recommendation or testimonial on behalf of such a
business entity or one or more products it produces. For purposes of this subsection,  Covered Products  shall mean any product that falls into one or more of the following categories, so long as the PepsiCo Organization is producing,
marketing, selling or licensing such product anywhere in the world beverages, including without limitation carbonated soft drinks, tea, water, juice drinks, sports drinks, coffee drinks and value-added dairy drinks; juices and juice products;
snacks, including salty snacks, sweet snacks meat snacks, granola and cereal bars, and cookies; hot cereals; pancake mixes; value-added rice products; pancake syrups; value-added pasta products; ready-to-eat cereals; dry pasta products; or any
product or service that the Member had reason to know was under development by the PepsiCo Organization during the Member s employment with the PepsiCo Organization.       9.09 Notices.       Any notice which under the Plan is required to be given to
or served upon the Plan shall be deemed to be sufficiently given to or served upon the Plan if it is in writing and delivered to the Vice President. In any case where under the Plan any notice shall be required to be given to Members, it shall be
sufficient if such notice is delivered to the Member s last known address on file in the records of the Employer or delivered to the Member pursuant to any other method ( e.g. , electronically) that the Vice President determines is
reasonably available to the Member.   
         26   

9.10 Plan Documentation.       Every Member shall on demand be entitled to a copy of the governing legal document for the DB Program.       9.11 Currency of Payment.       Payment of benefits under the Plan shall be made
in United States dollars, or other  eligible currency,  as approved by the Vice President. For both annuity and lump sum payments, the amount otherwise payable in United States dollars would be converted to the selected currency using the
exchange rate, based on the methodology approved by the Vice President from time to time.       9.12 Governing Law.    
  The Plan shall in all respects be governed by and interpreted according to the laws of the State of New York.   
   9.13 Exemption from ERISA.       The Plan is intended to be exempt from the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ), as a plan maintained outside of the United States primarily for the benefit of
persons substantially all of whom are nonresident aliens of the United States. In order to preserve this exemption from ERISA, both Active Membership in the Plan and the opportunity to increase Highest Average Monthly Earnings after ceasing to be an
Active Member, in accordance with Section 4.04(b), shall be limited to individuals who are nonresident aliens of the United States and whose assigned work locations are outside the United States, and it is intended that all permanent records
and documentation relating to the administration of the Plan shall be kept at a location that is outside of the United States.       9.14
Exemption from Section 409A.       In order to permit this Plan to be completely exempt from United States Internal Revenue
Code section 409A, effective January 1, 2005, this Plan shall be subject to the special operating rules and limitations in this Section 9.14. It is the intent of the Plan that no Member who is a U.S. Person may in any way have their
benefit from the Plan vest, increase or in any way be enhanced (collectively, a  Benefit Enhancement ) as a result of their compensation or service while a U.S. Person. Accordingly, no Member shall become entitled to a Benefit Enhancement
with respect to a calendar year until it is determined, following the close of such year, that the Member was not a U.S. Person with respect to such year. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in the calendar year a Member s benefit under
this Plan is scheduled to commence, the Vice President may authorize a Benefit Enhancement for the calendar year of benefit commencement to the extent the Vice President determines satisfactorily that the Member will
  
         27   

not be a U.S. Person for such year. In other cases, the Member s benefit will commence under this Plan without any Benefit Enhancement related to the calendar year of commencement, and
appropriate adjustments will be made to the Member s benefit in the following year if it is determined that the Member was not a U.S. Person in such calendar year of commencement.   
         28   

ARTICLE X   SIGNATURE     
  This Plan is hereby adopted this 16   th    day of December, 2010, to be effective as of January 1, 2010.   

PEPSICO, INC.    

By:  
     
  /s/ Cynthia M. Trudell           

Cynthia M. Trudell   

Senior Vice President, Human Resources   

Chief Personnel Officer   

APPROVED:   

By:  
     
  /s/ Stacy L. DeWalt   

Stacy L. DeWalt   

Employee Benefits Counsel   

Law Department   
 
         29   

TABLE A   CALCULATION OF PENSIONS     
  This section sets forth the formulas for calculating the Pension payable to a Member under Article IV or the Death Benefit payable to a
Member s Eligible Spouse under Article VI. Any benefits accrued under the DB Program by a Member while a part-time employee, following such Member s designation by the Vice President as an Eligible Employee pursuant to the last sentence of
Section 2.01(g), shall be prorated as determined by the Vice President to reflect the approximate ratio of the Member s level of services during such part-time status to the level required for full-time status at the Member s work
location.      (I) Member s Pension      (a) The Pension payable (as a Single Life Annuity benefit) on retirement at Normal Retirement Date for Members who became members of the Plan before January 1, 1976 shall be the  larger  of the
Pension calculated under this paragraph (a) or under paragraph (b) below. The Pension under this paragraph (a) shall be the  greater  of (1) or (2) below:   
  (1) 1.5 percent of the Member s Highest Average Monthly Salary (as hereinafter defined) multiplied by the number of
years of Pensionable Service; or      (2) 3 percent of the Member s Highest Average Monthly Salary, multiplied
by the number of years of his Pensionable Service but not exceeding 15 years.      (b) The Pension payable (as a Single Life
Annuity benefit) on retirement at Normal Retirement Date (i) for Members who became members of the Plan on or after January 1, 1976, and (ii) for persons (other than those in (i)) who became Members on or after September 1,1980,
and (iii) for persons (other than in (i) or (ii)) who became Members after November 12, 1998, shall be the Pension calculated under this paragraph (b). The pension calculated under this paragraph (b) shall be the aggregate of:
     (1) For up to the first 10 years of Pensionable Service, the product of (i) 3 percent of the
Member s Highest Average Monthly Salary, multiplied by (ii) the number of years of Pensionable Service, but not exceeding 10 such years; plus      (2) For any years of Pensionable Service in excess of 10, the product of (i) 1 percent of the Member s Highest Average Monthly Salary, multiplied by (ii) the number of years of Pensionable
Service in excess of 10.      (c) At the discretion of the Vice President, the Pension calculated as provided in paragraphs
(a) and (b) above shall be reduced by some or all of the following:      (1) All state pension and social
security benefits receivable by the Member attributable to Service other than those derived from unmatched and unreimbursed voluntary contributions made by the Member;   
         30   

(2) The annuity equivalent of a like portion of all capital sum benefits
receivable by the Member on or by reason of his retirement either from a state source or from the Employer in consequence of a requirement of local legislation, including, but not limited to, termination indemnities;   
  (3) Any benefits payable to the Member (or in respect of him) from other retirement benefit plans of the Employers in
respect of any period of employment which qualifies as Pensionable Service both under the DB Program and under such other retirement benefit plans of the Employers;   
  (4) Any other payment made by the Employer at the time of termination of the Member that arises from any severance
agreement made between the Employer and Member, for whatsoever reason;      (5) The value (as determined in
accordance with methodology approved by the Vice President) of any benefits paid to the Member prior to his retirement from any plan in respect of any period of employment which qualifies as Pensionable Service both under the DB Program and under
such other retirement benefit plans of the Employers;      (6) Any deductions, reductions or forfeiture of a
Member s benefits resulting from a Member s misdemeanor, misconduct or discharge for cause pursuant to Section 9.08 hereof.      No such deduction shall be made in respect of any such benefits as are derived from unmatched and unreimbursed voluntary contributions made by the Member. The value of all such deductions shall be subject
to adjustment to reflect the form and timing of payment All deductions set out in this paragraph (c) shall be calculated as of the Member s termination date and in accordance with methodology approved by the Vice President from time to
time.      (d) If the Pension payable to or on behalf of a Member is reduced under paragraph (c) above, an alternative
calculation of the Pension for such Member shall apply unless the Vice President determines that the alternative calculation would be unnecessary or impractical or would not serve the purposes of the DB Program. Under this alternative calculation,
only the Member s Pensionable Service under this DB Program, which does not include any employment that is taken into account in determining benefits under paragraph (c)(1) (5), shall be considered, and the reductions under paragraph
(c)(1) (5) shall be disregarded (however, the reduction under paragraph (c)(6) shall be taken into account). If this alternative calculation applies, the Pension payable under this alternative calculation shall be compared to the Pension
payable under paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above, and whichever provides the greater Pension amount will be payable to or on behalf of the Member, subject to the remaining provisions of this paragraph (d). The alternative calculation set
forth in this paragraph (d) is intended to provide a calculation methodology that replicates the effect of the  extended wearaway  calculation methodology, as it is in effect from time to time under the PepsiCo Salaried Plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing terms of this paragraph (d), any benefit increase provided as a result of this paragraph (d) will be limited so that in the judgment of the Vice President it is not in excess of what should be available given the
intent described in the preceding sentence.   
         31   

(e) For purposes of this Table A,  Highest Average Monthly Salary  means one
twelfth of the yearly average of the Member s Salary over any 5 consecutive calendar years of Service in which such Salary was highest (or over such lesser period as the Member has been in Service). For purposes of determining a Member s
Highest Average Monthly Salary, the following shall apply:      (1) A calendar year with no Salary shall be
disregarded, and the calendar years preceding and following such calendar year (or years) shall be considered consecutive.      (2) If in a calendar year there is an unpaid authorised leave of absence, or other absence from paid service, that results in less than a complete year of Salary, such calendar year shall be disregarded
and the next preceding or succeeding year or years shall be taken into account if it results in a higher average.      (f) In
determining the amount of a Deferred Vested Pension for the purposes of Section 4.04, the Pension shall be equal to the greatest of the amounts determined under subsection (1), (2) or (3) below:   
  (1) The Pension calculated as provided in (b) above, but based on the Pensionable Service the Member would have
earned had he remained an Active Member until his Normal Retirement Date (subject to a maximum of 35 years) and Highest Average Monthly Salary as of September 30, 2003, reduced by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Member s actual
years of Pensionable Service prior to October 1, 2003 (subject to a maximum of 35 years) and the denominator of which is the years of Pensionable Service he would have earned had he remained an Active Member until his Normal Retirement Date
(subject to a maximum of 35 years).      (2) The aggregate of:   
  (i) The Pension calculated as provided in (b) above, but based on the Pensionable Service the Member would have
earned had he remained an Active Member until his Normal Retirement Date and Highest Average Monthly Salary as of September 30, 2003, reduced by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Member s actual years of Pensionable Service prior
to October 1, 2003 and the denominator of which is the years of Pensionable Service he would have earned had he remained an Active Member until his Normal Retirement Date; and   
  (ii) The Pension calculated as provided in (b) above, but based on the Pensionable Service the Member would have
earned had he remained an Active Member until his Normal Retirement Date and the Highest Average Monthly Salary at the date the Member ceases to be in Service, reduced by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Member s actual years of
Pensionable Service after September 30, 2003 and the denominator of which is the years of Pensionable Service he would have earned had he remained an Active Member until his Normal Retirement Date.   
         32   

(3) The Pension calculated as provided in (b) above, but based on the
Pensionable Service the Member would have earned had he remained an Active Member until his Normal Retirement Date and the Highest Average Monthly Salary at the date the Member ceases to be in Service, reduced by a fraction, the numerator of which
is the Member s actual years of Pensionable Service and the denominator of which is the years of Pensionable Service he would have earned had he remained an Active Member until his Normal Retirement Date.   
  For Members who became Members of the Plan before January 1, 1976, the Deferred Vested Pension
shall be the  larger  of 1   1   /  2   percent of the
Member s Highest Average Monthly Salary multiplied by the Member s number of years of Pensionable Service at termination or the amount determined by the Vice President based on actuarial information provided to the Vice President.
      All deductions set out in (c) above that are applicable to a Member entitled to a Deferred Vested Pension shall
be calculated as of the time such Member ceases to be in Service and in accordance with methodology approved by the Vice President.      (II)
 Pre-Retirement Spouse s Pension       Effective for deaths before July 1, 2010, the Pre-Retirement Spouse s
Pension payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 shall be equal to 25 percent of the Pension, payable as a Single Life Annuity, to which the Member would have been entitled at his Normal Retirement Date, calculated as in Part I above
as if the Member had remained an Active Member until age 65 without change in his Highest Average Monthly Salary. In computing the Member s Pension for this purpose the Member s Pension shall be reduced to reflect any benefits which would
have been taken into account under Part I above had the Member retired on the date of death, but shall not reduce the Pre-Retirement Spouse s Pension to reflect commencement prior to the date the Member would have attained Normal Retirement
Age. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this paragraph, if a Member covered by Section 6.01 dies after the date he would have been entitled to retire early under Section 4.02, the Pre-Retirement Spouse s Pension payable to
such spouse shall not be less than 50 percent of the Pension to which the Member would have been entitled if he had retired on the day preceding his death and shall be reduced in accordance with Section 4.02 if the spouse commences the
Pre-Retirement Souse s Pension prior to the date the Member would have attained age 62.   
         33   

APPENDIX ERW   EARLY RETIREMENT WINDOWS     
     ERW.1 Scope.    
  This Appendix ERW supplements the main portion of the DB Program with respect to the rights and benefits of Covered Employees.   
   ERW.2 Definitions and Program Specific Rules.       This section provides definitions for the following words or phrases in boldface and underlined. Where they appear in this Appendix ERW with initial capitals they shall have the meaning set forth below.
Except as otherwise provided in this Appendix ERW, all defined terms shall have the meaning given to them in Section 2.01 of the DB Program.       (a)    Appendix ERW  :  This Appendix ERW to the DB Program.    
   (b)  Covered Employee:  An Active Member who:    
  (1) Is an Eligible Employee of an Employer at the time his employment is terminated involuntarily pursuant to the
Reorganization;      (2)      (i) For purposes of the 2007/2008 Restructuring, has his last day of active employment between the Effective Date and December 31, 2008 (inclusive) and has a Severance Date pursuant to paragraph
(1) above that occurs on or after the Effective Date but no later than December 31, 2009; and      (ii)
For purposes of the 2008/2009 Restructuring, has his last day of active employment between the Effective Date and August 31, 2009 (inclusive) and has a Severance Date pursuant to paragraph (1) above that occurs on or after the Effective
Date but no later than December 26, 2009;      (3) Is entitled to receive enhanced severance pay under the
Severance Program as part of the Reorganization, or is entitled to receive severance pay pursuant to an agreement described in (5) below;      (4) Is authorized in writing by the Vice President to receive the benefits under this Appendix ERW; and      (5) Signs, submits and does not revoke a qualifying severance agreement releasing the Corporation and the Associated Companies and each of their employees, agents and affiliates from liability, subject to
the Corporation s determination that (i) such severance agreement meets all substance, form and timing requirements that the Corporation applies and (ii) such severance agreement is entered into under the Severance Program as part of
the Reorganization.   
         34   

Any Active Member who does not meet all of the foregoing requirements is not a  Covered
Employee  and is not eligible for the benefits under this Appendix ERW.       (c)    Reorganization :  The
reorganization, plant closing, or other event that triggered the applicable Severance Program.       (d)    Severance
Date :  An Active Member s final day of employment with the Employer pursuant to the Reorganization.       (e) 
  Severance Program and Effective Date :  The Terms Severance Program and Effective Date are defined as follows, separately for each Severance Program:   
  (1)  2007/2008 Restructuring . For purposes of the 2007/2008 Restructuring, Severance Program means both the
 PepsiCo Transition Severance Program for the 2007 Restructuring for Salaried Employees Below Band 1  and the  PepsiCo Transition Severance Program for the Equipment   Service Management Restructuring for Salaried Employees
below Band 1  and Effective Date means February 4, 2008 (that is, the first date an Active Member would be able to retire under this paragraph (1)).      (2)  2008/2009 Restructuring . For purposes of the 2008/2009 Restructuring, Severance Program means both the  PepsiCo Transition Severance Program for the 2008/2009 Restructuring for Salaried
Employees Below Band I  and the  PepsiCo Transition Severance Program for the 2008/2009 Restructuring for Salaried Employees Band I  and Effective Date means April 3, 2009 (that is, the first date an Active Member would be able
to retire under this paragraph (2)).       ERW.3 Special Early Retirement.    
  Any Covered Employee who meets the eligibility requirements of subsection (a) below shall be treated as eligible for a Special Early
Retirement Pension under Section 4.03.      (a)  Eligibility requirements : To be eligible under this section, an
individual must:      (1) Be a Covered Employee on his Severance Date,   
  (2) For purposes of the 2007/2008 Restructuring only:   
  (i) have attained at least age 50 (but not age 55) by his Severance Date, and   
  (ii) be credited with at least 10 years of Vesting Service as of his Severance Date   
  (3) For purposes of the 2008/2009 Restructuring only:   
         35   

(i) have attained at least age 50 (but not age 55) by his  Pension
Termination Date  (which means the earlier of the Covered Member s Severance Date or the date that is 52 weeks after the Covered Member s last day of active employment pursuant to the Reorganization);   
  (ii) be credited with at least 10 years of Vesting Service as of his Severance Date. For purposes of determining whether
the Covered Member has met the age and service requirements, the Covered Member s age and years of Vesting Service are rounded up to the nearest whole year,   
  (iii) not return to employment with an Employer before his Pension Termination Date, and   
  (iv) not be otherwise eligible for Normal or Early Retirement Pension.   
  (b)  Amount of Reduction : In determining the amount of the Special Early Retirement Pension provided under this Appendix ERW, the
4/12ths of 1 percent per month early commencement reduction of Section 4.03 shall apply. The Special Early Retirement Pension provided under this section is otherwise subject to all the usual limitations set forth in the DB Program.   
  (c)  Non-Duplication of Benefits:  For the avoidance of doubt, the Special Early Retirement Pension made available pursuant to this
Appendix ERW shall be in lieu of the Special Early Retirement Pension pursuant to Rule 4.03 of the DB Program. Covered Employees shall not be entitled to, and shall not receive, a Special Early Retirement Pension pursuant to Section 4.03 of the
DB Program. In addition, the Special Early Retirement Pension under this Appendix ERW shall not be available to any individual who is eligible for special early retirement under the PepsiCo Salaried Plan (or who claims such special early retirement,
unless a release of such claim acceptable to the Corporations is provided). By accepting benefits pursuant to this Appendix ERW, a Covered Employee is conclusively presumed to have waived irrevocably any and all right to a Special Early Retirement
Pension under Section 4.03 or to special early retirement benefits under the PepsiCo Salaried Plan (or any other plan maintained or contributed to by the Corporation or an Associated Company).   
  (d)  LTIP Awards:  Any Covered Employee who is treated as eligible for an Early Retirement Pension pursuant to this Rule ERW shall
also be deemed to qualify for  Retirement  for purposes of such Covered Employee s outstanding stock option and restricted stock unit awards under the PepsiCo Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan, the PepsiCo, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive
Plan, the PepsiCo, Inc. 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the PepsiCo, Inc. 1995 Stock Option Incentive Plan and the PepsiCo SharePower Stock Option Plan.   
         36   

</EX-10.68>

<EX-10.69>
 4
 d269581dex1069.htm
 AMENDMENT TO THE PEPSICO INTERNATIONAL RETIREMENT PLAN DEFINED BENEFIT PROGRAM

Amendment to the PepsiCo International Retirement Plan Defined Benefit Program 

Exhibit 10.69        AMENDMENT ONE TO THE        PEPSICO INTERNATIONAL RETIREMENT PLAN
       (As Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2010)    
  The PepsiCo International Retirement Plan (the  Plan ) is hereby amended as follows, effective January 1, 2011:   
  I.      Section (I)(f)(l) of Table A of the Defined Benefit Program component of the Plan is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced as follows:   

(1)  
  The Pension calculated as provided in (b) above, but based on the Pensionable Service the Member would have earned had he remained an Active Member until his
Normal Retirement Age (subject to a maximum of 35 years) and Highest Average Monthly Salary as of September 30, 2003, reduced by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Member s actual years of Pensionable Service prior to
October 1, 2003 (subject to a maximum of 35 years) and the denominator of which is the years of Pensionable Service he would have earned had he remained an Active Member until his Normal Retirement Age.     
  II.      The fifth paragraph of Article I History and General Information of the Defined Contribution Program component of the Plan is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
     Effective January 1, 2011, the Corporation established a new defined contribution structure (the  DC
Program ) to benefit selected international employees for whom it has been determined to be appropriate ( i.e ., employees on assignments outside of their home countries for whom it is judged to be impractical to have them participate in
their home country retirement plans, and employees who are among a selected group of senior globalists on United States   

tax equalized packages). The terms of the DC Program are set forth in this document, which is the governing legal document for the DC Program. Together, the DC Program and the DB Program set
forth the terms of a single Plan. The DC Program is also sometimes referred to in employee communications as the PepsiCo International Pension Plan or  PIPP.    

PEPSICO, INC.    

By:  
     
  /s/ Cynthia M. Trudell            
 
  Cynthia M. Trudell   
 
  Executive Vice President, Human Resources   
 
  Chief Personnel Officer   
 
  Date: December 20, 2011   

APPROVED:    

By:  
     
  /s/ Stacy L. DeWalt            
 
  Stacy L. DeWalt   
 
  Employee Benefits Counsel   
 
  Law Department   
 
         2   

</EX-10.69>

<EX-10.70>
 5
 d269581dex1070.htm
 PEPSICO AUTOMATIC RETIREMENT CONTRIBUTION EQUALIZATION PLAN

PepsiCo Automatic Retirement Contribution Equalization Plan 

Exhibit 10.70    
       
       PEPSICO    
   AUTOMATIC RETIREMENT        CONTRIBUTION EQUALIZATION PLAN        Effective as of January 1, 2011

PepsiCo Automatic Retirement Contribution Equalization Plan    
   Table of Contents        
 
         i   

ii   

iii

ARTICLE I   FOREWORD    
  PepsiCo, Inc. (the  Company ) established the PepsiCo Automatic Retirement Contribution Equalization Plan (the
 Plan ) for the benefit of employees of the PepsiCo Organization who receive Automatic Retirement Contributions under the PepsiCo Savings Plan (the  Savings Plan ), and whose Automatic Retirement Contributions are affected by
certain Code limitations. In particular, the Plan is designed to benefit eligible employees whose Automatic Retirement Contributions under the Savings Plan are curtailed by the limitation on compensation under Code section 401(a)(17) or the
limitation on annual additions under Code section 415, or who have any other reductions in Automatic Retirement Contributions as a result of the employee s deferrals under the PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program (the  EID Program).
     The Plan is effective as of January 1, 2011. Also as of the beginning of the day on this date, the PBG Supplemental
Savings Plan (the  PBG Plan ) merged with and into this Plan. Appendix A of this Plan sets forth special provision applicable to amounts that were earned under the PBG Plan.   
  At all times, the Plan is unfunded and unsecured for purposes of the Code and ERISA. The benefits of an executive are an obligation of
that executive s individual employer. With respect to his or her employer, the executive has the rights of an unsecured general creditor.   
         1   

ARTICLE II   DEFINITIONS    
  When used in this Plan, the following boldface terms shall have the meanings set forth below unless a different meaning is plainly
required by the context:       

2.1   
   ARC Equalization Account; Account.         The unfunded, notional account maintained for a Participant on the books of the Participant s Employer that indicates the dollar amount that, as of any time, is credited under the Plan for the
benefit of the Participant. The balance in such account shall be determined by the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator may establish one or more subaccounts as it deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan, and may also combine
one or more subaccounts to the extent it deems separate subaccounts are not then needed for sound recordkeeping. Where appropriate, a reference to a Participant s Account shall include a reference to each applicable subaccount that has been
established thereunder.       
    The person
or persons (including a trust or trusts) properly designated by a Participant, as determined by the Recordkeeper, to receive the amounts credited to the Participant s ARC Equalization Account in the event of the Participant s death in
accordance with Section 6.3(c).       
    The Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.       
    PepsiCo, Inc.,
a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of North Carolina, or its successor or successors.       

2.5   
   Distribution Valuation Date.         The date as specified by the Plan Administrator from time to time as of which Participant ARC Equalization Accounts are valued for purposes of a distribution from a Participant s Account. Currently,
the Distribution Valuation Date for a Participant is the month end   
         2   

that occurs just after the event specified in Article VI that triggers the Participant s distribution. Accordingly, if the trigger event occurs on December 30 of a year, the current
Distribution Valuation Date is December 31 of that year, and if the trigger event occurs on December 31 of a year, the current Distribution Valuation Date is January 31 of the following year. Any current Distribution Valuation Date
may be changed by the Plan Administrator, provided that such change does not result in a change in when deferrals are paid out that is impermissible under Section 409A. Values are determined as of the close of a Distribution Valuation Date or,
if such date is not a business day, as of the close of the preceding business day.       
    The date
as of which the Plan is effective, January 1, 2011.       
    The PepsiCo
Executive Income Deferral Program.       
    An
Employee who is eligible to participate actively in the Plan in accordance with Section 3.1. An Employee s status as an Eligible Employee shall be determined separately with respect to each payroll date.   
   
    An individual
who qualifies as an  Employee  as that term is defined in the Savings Plan.       
    An entity that
qualifies as an  Employer  as that term is defined in the Savings Plan.       
    Public Law
No. 93-406, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.       

2.12   
   Equalized Automatic Retirement Contribution.         The contributions made to the Plan pursuant to Section 4.1.   
         3   

The
individuals identified in accordance with the following paragraphs.       

(a)  
   In General . Any Participant who at any time during the applicable year is:     

(1)  
  An officer of any member of the PepsiCo Organization having annual compensation greater than $130,000 (as adjusted for the applicable year under Code
Section 416(i)(l));         

(2)  
  A five-percent owner of any member of the PepsiCo Organization; or         

(3)  
  A one-percent owner of any member of the PepsiCo Organization having annual compensation of more than $150,000.     
  For purposes of subsection (a) above, no more than 50 employees identified in the order of their annual compensation shall be treated
as officers. For purposes of this Section, annual compensation means compensation as defined in Treasury Regulation section 1.415(c)-2(a), without regard to Treasury Regulation sections 1.415(c)-2(d), 1.415(c)-2(e), and 1.415(c)-2(g). The Plan
Administrator shall determine who is a Key Employee in accordance with Code section 416(i) (provided, that Code section 416(i)(5) shall not apply in making such determination), and provided further than the applicable year shall be determined in
accordance with Section 409A and that any modification or clarification of the foregoing definition that applies under Section 409A shall be taken into account (determined in accordance with Treasury Regulation section 1.419A-l(i), and
giving effect to the default rules that apply under such regulation for determining the minimum number of a service recipient s specified employees).       

(b)  
     Applicable Year . The Plan Administrator shall determine Key Employees effective as of the last day of each calendar year, based on compensation
for such year, and such designation shall be effective for purposes of this Plan for the twelve-month period commencing on April 1   st    of the next following calendar year ( e.g. , the Key Employee determination by the Plan Administrator as of
December 31, 2010 shall apply to the period from April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012).      
         4   

(c)  
   Rule of Administrative Convenience . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan Administrator shall apply the following rule of administrative convenience for
determining Key Employees for purposes of complying with the six-month payment delay that is required under Section 409A of the Code with respect to such employees:     

(1)  
  From the Effective Date until March 31, 2011, an employee shall be a Key Employee (subject to paragraph (3) below) if he was classified as at least a Band 4
or its equivalent on December 31, 2009. For this purpose, an employee shall be considered to be at least a Band 4 or its equivalent as of a date if the employee is classified as one of the following types of employees in the PepsiCo
Organization on that date: (i) a Band 4 employee or above in a PepsiCo Business, (ii) a Level E7 employee or above in a PBG Business, or (iii) a Salary Grade 19 employee or above at a PAS Business. For purposes of this paragraph,
 PAS Business  means each employer, division of an employer or other organizational subdivision of an employer that the Company classifies as part of the PAS business;  PBG Business  means each employer, division of an employer
or other organizational subdivision of an employer that the Company classifies as part of the PBG business; and  PepsiCo Business  means each employer, division of an employer or other organizational subdivision of an employer that the
Company classifies as part of the PepsiCo business.         

(2)  
  For the twelve-month period that begins on April 1, 2011, and for each twelve-month period that begins on April 1 in subsequent years, an employee shall be a
Key Employee (subject to paragraph (3) below) if the employee was an employee of the PepsiCo Organization who was classified as Band 4 or above on the December 31 that immediately precedes such April 1.     
         5   

(3)  
  Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) above, an employee shall be a Key Employee for the 12-month period that begins on any April 1, if as of the
preceding December 31 the employee would be a Key Employee under the provisions of subsection (a) above. If the preceding sentence and the methods for identifying Key Employees set forth in paragraph (1) or (2) above, taken
together, would result in more than 200 individuals being counted as Key Employees as of any December 31 determination date, then the number of individuals treated as Key Employees pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2), who are not described in
the first sentence of this paragraph (3), shall be reduced to 200 by eliminating from consideration those employees otherwise added by such subparagraph in order of their base compensation, from the lowest base compensation to the highest.
        
    An Employee
(or former Employee) participating in the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Article III.       
 
  The controlled group of organizations of which the Company is a part, as defined by Code section 414(b) and (c) and the regulations
issued thereunder. An entity shall be considered a member of the PepsiCo Organization only during the period it is one of the group of organizations described in the preceding sentence.   
   
    The PepsiCo
Automatic Retirement Contribution Equalization Plan, the plan set forth herein, as it may be amended and restated from time to time.       
    The
PepsiCo Administration Committee (PAC), which shall have authority to administer the Plan as provided in Article VII, except that the PepsiCo Investment Committee (PIC) shall have the authority under Section 7.3(h) to select or change phantom
investment options available under the Plan.   
         6   

The
12-consecutive month period beginning on January 1 and ending on the following December 31 of the same calendar year.       
    For any
designated period of time, the party that is delegated the responsibility, pursuant to the authority granted in the definition of Plan Administrator, to maintain the records of Participant Accounts, process Participant transactions and perform other
duties in accordance with any procedures and rules established by the Plan Administrator.       
    The
PepsiCo Savings Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.       
 
  Section 409A of the Code.       
 
  A Participant s separation from service with the PepsiCo Organization, within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i). The term
may also be used as a verb (i.e.,  Separates from Service ) with no change in meaning. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a Participant s transfer to an entity owned 20% or more by the Company will not constitute a Separation of
Service to the extent permitted by Section 409A. The following principles shall generally apply in determining when a Separation from Service occurs:       

(a)  
    A Participant separates from service with the Company if the Employee has a termination of employment with the Company other than for death. Whether a
termination of employment has occurred is determined based on whether the facts and circumstances indicate that the Company and the Employee reasonably anticipated that no further services would be performed after a certain date or that the level of
bona fide services the Employee would perform after such date (as an employee or independent contractor) would permanently decrease to no more than      
         7   

20 percent of the average level of bona fide services performed over the immediately preceding 36-month period (or the full period in which the Employee provided services to the Company if the
Employee has been providing services for less than 36 months).         

(b)  
  An Employee will not be deemed to have experienced a Separation from Service if such Employee is on military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence, to
the extent such leave does not exceed a period of six months or, if longer, such longer period of time during which a right to re-employment is protected by either statute or contract. If the period of leave exceeds six months and the individual
does not retain a right to re-employment under an applicable statute or by contract, the employment relationship is deemed to terminate on the first date immediately following such six-month period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, where a leave of
absence is due to any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than six months, where such impairment causes the Employee to be unable
to perform the duties of his or her position of employment or any substantially similar position of employment, a 29-month period of absence shall be substituted for such six-month period. In the case of such a disability leave of absence, a
Separation from Service shall occur on the earlier of the date that the Participant has reached 29 continuous months of disability leave of absence or the date that the Participant formally resigns his employment with the Employer and the PepsiCo
Organization.         

(c)  
  If an Employee provides services both an as employee and as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company, the services provided as a Director are generally not
taken into account in determining whether the Employee has Separated from Service as an Employee for purposes of the Plan, in accordance with final regulations under Section 409A.     
   2.23 United States.       Any
of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.   
         8   

2.24 Valuation Date.       Each business day, as determined by the Recordkeeper, as of which Participant Accounts are valued in accordance with Plan procedures that are currently in effect. In accordance with procedures that may be
adopted by the Plan Administrator, any current Valuation Date may be changed.   
         9   

ARTICLE III   ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION    

3.1   
   Eligibility to Participate.         Subject to Section 3.4, an Employee shall be eligible to participate actively in the Plan as of any payroll date if he or she is an ARC Eligible Employee under the Savings Plan and his or her
Automatic Retirement Contributions for such payroll date under the Savings Plan are: (i) reduced by application of a limitation set forth in either Code section 401(a)(17) or 415; (ii) otherwise reduced as a result of the Employee s
deferrals under the EID Program; or (iii) affected as described in both (i) and (ii).       

3.2   
   Commencement of Participation.         An Eligible Employee shall become a Participant in this Plan as of the first payroll date an Equalized Automatic Retirement Contribution is allocated to his or her Account as provided in Section 5.1.

3.3   
   Termination of Participation.         An Employee who becomes a Participant under the Plan shall cease to be a Participant on the date his or her Account is fully distributed as provided in Article VI.   

3.4   
   Agreements Not to Participate.         The eligibility provisions of this Article III will be subject to any other documents that constitute part of an agreement between the Company and an Employee that limits or bars the Employee s
participation in this Plan. An agreement that is otherwise described in the preceding sentence shall not limit or bar an Employee s participation in this Plan for the period before the earliest date such agreement may apply without violating
the restrictions on elections under Section 409A.   
         10   

ARTICLE IV   CONTRIBUTIONS    

4.1   
   Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions.         Subject to Section 10.13, as of each payroll date for which an Employee is an Eligible Employee, the Employer shall make an Equalized Automatic Retirement Contribution to the ARC Equalization Account
of such Eligible Employee. Subject to Section 4.2 below, the amount of each Equalized Automatic Retirement Contribution shall equal         

(a)  
  The Eligible Employee s Total Automatic Retirement Contribution for such payroll date,  reduced by      

(b)  
  The amount of the Automatic Retirement Contribution to which the Eligible Employee is entitled under the Savings Plan for the same payroll date.
       An Eligible Employee s  Total Automatic Retirement Contribution  is determined in the same way
the Eligible Employee s Automatic Retirement Contribution is required to be determined as of such payroll date under the Savings Plan, but with the following modifications: (i) the limitation on compensation imposed by Code section
401(a)(17), as otherwise applied by the terms of the Savings Plan, shall be disregarded, (ii) the limitation on annual additions imposed by Code section 415, as otherwise applied by the terms of the Savings Plan, shall be disregarded, and
(iii) any exclusion, which is then in effect of amounts deferred by the Eligible Employee under the EID Program from his or her Eligible Pay under the Savings Plan shall be disregarded. The three modifications in the preceding sentence shall be
applied so that they do not result in any duplication (e.g., the provisions of (iii) above shall not result in an amount of Total Automatic Retirement Contribution to the extent such amount is provided by (ii) above).   

4.2   
   Maximum Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions.         An Eligible Employee shall cease having Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions made to his or her ARC Equalization Account during any Plan Year as necessary to ensure that the sum of his or her
Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions under this Plan and Automatic Retirement Contributions under the Savings Plan (collectively, the  Aggregate Employer Contributions ) equal or do not exceed the Code section
  
         11   

401(a)(17) limit in effect for such Plan Year. An Eligible Employee s Equalized Automatic Retirement Contribution for a payroll date shall be reduced to comply with this Section by taking
into account all Aggregate Employer Contributions, payable for all prior payroll dates in the Plan Year, and Automatic Retirement Contributions under the Savings Plan payable for the current payroll date.   
   4.3 Offsets.    
  Notwithstanding an Eligible Employee s rights under Section 4.1 (or a Participant s rights under Articles V and VI), the
Company may reduce the amount of any payment or benefit that is or would become payable to or on behalf of an Eligible Employee or Participant by the amount of any obligation of the Eligible Employee or Participant to the Company that is or becomes
due and payable, provided that (a) the obligation of the Eligible Employee or Participant to the Company was incurred during the employment relationship, (b) the reduction may not exceed the amount allowed under Section 409A and
Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(xiii), and (c) the reduction is made at the same time and in the same amount as the obligation otherwise would have been due and collectable from the Employee or Participant. Consistent with this,
appropriate reductions may be made in (i) the Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions that otherwise would be provided to the Eligible Employee under Section 4.1, (ii) the balance in the Participant s Account under Article
V, or (iii) the Participant s distributions under Article VI. The application of this Section 4.2 is solely in the independent discretion of the Company.   
         12   

ARTICLE V   PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS    

5.1   
   Accounting for Participants  Interests.         Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions shall be credited to a Participant s ARC Equalization Account at the same time that the Participant s Automatic Retirement Contributions under the
Savings Plan are required to be allocated to the Participant s Profit-Sharing Account under the Savings Plan (or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter). A Participant s ARC Equalization Account is a bookkeeping device to track
the notional value of the Participant s Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions (and his or her Employer s liability therefor). No assets shall be reserved or segregated in connection with any ARC Equalization Account, and no ARC
Equalization Account shall be funded, insured or otherwise secured.       

5.2   
   Investment Earnings and Losses.         As of each Valuation Date, a Participant s ARC Equalization Account shall be credited with earnings and gains (and shall be debited for expenses and losses) determined as if the amounts credited to
his or her ARC Equalization Account had actually been invested as directed by the Participant in accordance with this Article. The Plan provides only for  phantom investments,  and therefore such earnings, gains, expenses and losses are
hypothetical and not actual. However, they shall be applied to measure the value of a Participant s ARC Equalization Account and the amount of his or her Employer s liability to make deferred payments to or on behalf of the Participant.

5.3   
   Investment of Accounts.          

(a)  
     In General . A Participant s Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions shall be invested on a phantom basis among the investment options
that are available for Automatic Retirement Contributions under the Savings Plan from time to time, unless otherwise determined by the PIC. The PIC may discontinue any phantom investment option with respect to some or all Accounts, and it may
provide rules for transferring a Participant s phantom investment from the      
         13   

discontinued option to a specified replacement option (unless the Participant selects another replacement option in accordance with procedures established by the Plan Administrator for this
purpose).         

(b)  
   Investment and Reinvestment Elections . The Participant s Equalized Automatic Retirement Contribution for a payroll date shall be invested on a phantom basis
in the investment options and in the proportions specified by the Participant in accordance with rules applied by the Plan Administrator. Such rules shall be based on those that apply for purposes of Automatic Retirement Contributions under the
Savings Plan as of such payroll date, except as otherwise provided for by the Plan Administrator. To the extent a Participant does not specify an investment option for an Equalized Automatic Retirement Contribution, the rules for default investments
that are in effect under the Savings Plan as of such payment date shall apply. In addition, a Participant shall have the same right to change the investment of the Participant s future Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions and to
reinvest the balance of his or her ARC Equalization Account as the Participant has for his or her Automatic Retirement Contributions and the account or subaccount that holds such contributions under the Savings Plan, except as otherwise provided for
by the Plan Administrator.         

(c)  
     Phantom Investment Options . The Plan s phantom investment options shall be described in materials provided to Participants from time to
time. Any of these phantom investment options shall be administered under procedures implemented from time to time by the Plan Administrator. Unless otherwise specified in these materials or procedures, in the case of any such phantom investment
option that is based on a unitized fund, an amount deferred or transferred into such option is converted to phantom units in the applicable fund of equivalent value by dividing such amount by the NAV of a unit in such fund on the Valuation Date as
of which the amount is treated as invested in this option by the Plan Administrator. Thereafter, a Participant s interest in each such phantom option is valued as of a      
         14   

Valuation Date (or a Distribution Valuation Date) by multiplying the number of phantom units credited to his or her ARC Equalization Account on such date by the NAV of a unit in such fund on such
date.         
    A Participant
shall be fully vested in, and have a nonforfeitable right to, the Participant s ARC Equalization Account at the time the Participant becomes fully vested in his or her ARC Account under the Savings Plan. However, if a Participant s period
of Service (as determined under the Savings Plan for purposes of vesting) would extend beyond the Participant s Separation from Service date because of a leave of absence, the Plan Administrator may provide for determining the
Participant s nonforfeitable right to his or her ARC Equalization Account by projecting the benefit the Participant would have if all such Service were taken into account under this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant shall not
vest later than the time (if any) applicable with respect to the Participant under Section 10.13.       

5.5   
   Prohibited Misconduct.          

(a)  
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if the Plan Administrator determines that a Participant has engaged in Prohibited Misconduct at any
time prior to the second anniversary of his or her Separation from Service, the Participant shall forfeit all Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions and any net earnings or gains (whether paid previously, being paid currently or payable in the
future), and his or her ARC Equalization Account shall be adjusted to reflect such forfeiture and previously paid Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions and net earnings or gains shall be recovered.     

(b)  
  Any of the following activities engaged in, directly or indirectly, by a Participant shall constitute Prohibited Misconduct:     

(1)  
    The Participant accepting any employment, assignment, position or responsibility, or acquiring any ownership interest, which involves the
     
         15   

Participant s  Participation  (as defined below) in a business entity that markets, sells, distributes or produces  Covered Products  (as defined below), unless such
business entity makes retail sales or consumes Covered Products without in any way competing with the PepsiCo Organization.         

(2)  
  The Participant, directly or indirectly (including through someone else acting on the Participant s recommendation, suggestion, identification or advice),
soliciting any PepsiCo Organization employee to leave the PepsiCo Organization s employment or to accept any position with any other entity.         

(3)  
  The Participant using or disclosing to anyone any confidential information regarding the PepsiCo Organization other than as necessary in his or her position with the
PepsiCo Organization. Such confidential information shall include all non-public information the Participant acquired as a result of his or her positions with the PepsiCo Organization which might be of any value to a competitor of the PepsiCo
Organization, or which might cause any economic loss or substantial embarrassment to the PepsiCo Organization or its customers, bottlers, distributors or suppliers if used or disclosed. Examples of such confidential information include non-public
information about the PepsiCo Organization s customers, suppliers, distributors and potential acquisition targets; its business operations and structure; its product lines, formulas and pricing; its processes, machines and inventions; its
research and know-how; its financial data; and its plans and strategies.         

(4)  
    The Participant engaging in any acts that are considered to be contrary to the PepsiCo Organization s best interests, including violating the
Company s Code of Conduct, engaging in unlawful trading in the securities of the Company or of any other company based on information      
         16   

gained as a result of his or her employment with the PepsiCo Organization, or engaging in any other activity which constitutes gross misconduct.     

(5)  
  The Participant engaging in any activity that constitutes fraud.        For purposes of this subsection,  Participation  shall be construed broadly to include: (i) serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or contractor with respect to such a
business entity; (ii) providing input, advice, guidance or suggestions to such a business entity; or (iii) providing a recommendation or testimonial on behalf of such a business entity or one or more products it produces. For purposes of
this subsection,  Covered Products  shall mean any product that falls into one or more of the following categories, so long as the PepsiCo Organization is producing, marketing, selling or licensing such product anywhere in the
world beverages, including without limitation carbonated soft drinks, tea, water, juice drinks, sports drinks, coffee drinks and value-added dairy drinks; juices and juice products; snacks, including salty snacks, sweet snacks meat snacks,
granola and cereal bars, and cookies; hot cereals; pancake mixes; value-added rice products; pancake syrups; value-added pasta products; ready-to-eat cereals; dry pasta products; or any product or service that the Participant had reason to know was
under development by the PepsiCo Organization during the Participant s employment with the PepsiCo Organization.   
         17   

ARTICLE VI   PAYMENT OF BENEFITS    

6.1   
   Distribution Rules Generally.         A Participant s ARC Equalization Account shall be distributed based upon first to occur of a Participant s Separation from Service or death, as provided in Sections 6.2 and 6.3, respectively. If
a Participant becomes re-employed and entitled to another distribution after the occurrence of one of the foregoing distribution events, the rules of this Article shall apply separately to the balance in the Participant s ARC Equalization
Account that relates to the later period of employment. In no event shall any portion of a Participant s ARC Equalization Account be distributed earlier or later than is allowed under Section 409A. All distributions shall be made in a
single lump sum cash payment.       

6.2   
   Distributions Upon Separation from Service.         If a Participant s ARC Equalization Account becomes distributable based upon his or her Separation from Service, such distribution shall be made in a single lump sum payment on the first day of the
month that immediately follows the Participant s Distribution Valuation Date, subject to Section 6.4 below (Delay for Key Employees).       

6.3   
   Distributions Upon Death.          

(a)  
  If a Participant s ARC Equalization Account becomes distributable based upon the Participant s death, such distribution shall be distributed in a single lump
sum payment on the first day of the month that immediately follows the Participant s Distribution Valuation Date.         

(b)  
    Amounts paid following a Participant s death shall be paid to the Participant s Beneficiary; provided, however, that if no designation is in
effect at the time of a Participant s death (as determined by the Plan Administrator), or if all persons designated as Beneficiaries have predeceased the Participant, then the payments to be made pursuant to this Section shall be distributed to
the Participant s spouse, or if the Participant is not married at the time of his or her death, to his or her estate. The Plan Administrator shall determine whether a Participant is  married  and shall
     
         18   

determine a Participant s  spouse  based on the state or local law where the Participant has his or her primary residence at the time of death. The Plan Administrator is authorized
to make any applicable inquires and to request any documents, certificates or other information that it deems necessary or appropriate in order to make the above determinations.     

(c)  
  A Participant may designate (in a manner authorized by the Plan Administrator) one or more Beneficiaries to receive payment, in the event of his or her death, of the
amounts credited to his or her ARC Equalization Account; provided that, to be effective, any Beneficiary designation must be in writing, signed by the Participant, and must meet such other standards (including any requirement for spousal consent)
that the Plan Administrator or Recordkeeper shall require from time to time. The Beneficiary designation must also be filed with the Recordkeeper prior to the Participant s death, as determined by the Plan Administrator. An incomplete
Beneficiary designation, as determined by the Recordkeeper or Plan Administrator, shall be void and of no effect. A Beneficiary designation of an individual by name remains in effect regardless of any change in the designated individual s
relationship to the Participant. Any Beneficiary designation submitted to the Recordkeeper that only specifies a Beneficiary by relationship shall not be considered an effective Beneficiary designation and shall be void and of no effect. If more
than one Beneficiary is specified and the Participant fails to indicate the respective percentage applicable to two or more Beneficiaries, then each Beneficiary for whom a percentage is not designated will be entitled to an equal share of the
portion of the ARC Equalization Account (if any) for which percentages have not been designated. At any time, a Participant may change a Beneficiary designation for his or her ARC Equalization Account in a writing that is signed by the Participant
and filed with the Recordkeeper prior to the Participant s death, and that meets such other standards as the Plan Administrator shall require from time to time. An individual who is otherwise a Beneficiary with respect to a Participant s
ARC Equalization Account ceases to be a Beneficiary when all payments have been made from the ARC Equalization Account.     
         19   

(d)  
  Any claim to be paid any amounts standing to the credit of a Participant in connection with the Participant s death must be received by the Plan Administrator at
least 14 days before any such amount is actually distributed by the Plan. Any claim received thereafter is untimely, and it shall be unenforceable against the Plan, the Company, the Plan Administrator or any other party acting for one or more of
them.         

6.4   
   Delay for Key Employees.          

(a)  
  If the Participant is classified as a Key Employee at the time of the Participant s Separation from Service (or at such other time for determining Key Employee
status as may apply under Section 409A), then the time of payment based on Separation from Service shall be determined under the provisions of Section 6.2 as if the Distribution Valuation Date were the Valuation Date that is six months
after the Distribution Valuation Date that would otherwise apply.         

(b)  
  Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, distribution in accordance with Section 6.3 or Section 6.4 shall be given priority over distribution in accordance
with this Section if it would result in an earlier commencement date of the Participant s distribution.         
    In
determining the amount of any individual distribution pursuant to this Article, the Participant s ARC Equalization Account shall continue to be credited with earnings and gains (and debited for expenses and losses) as specified in Article V
until the Valuation Date that is used in determining the amount of the distribution under this Article.   
         20   

An amount payable on a date specified in this Article VI shall be paid no later than the later of (a) the end of the calendar year in which the specified date occurs, or (b) the 15   th    day of the third calendar month following such specified date. In no
event shall the Participant (or Beneficiary) be permitted to designate the taxable year of the payment. The payment date may be delayed further in accordance with one or more applicable special rules under Section 409A that permit such later
payment (for example, in the event of a bona fide dispute that meets the requirements of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(g)).   
         21   

ARTICLE VII   PLAN ADMINISTRATION    
   
    The
Plan Administrator is responsible for the administration of the Plan. The Plan Administrator has the authority to name one or more delegates to carry out certain responsibilities hereunder, as specified in the definition of Plan Administrator. Any
such delegation shall state the scope of responsibilities being delegated and is subject to Section 7.06 below.       
    Action by the
Plan Administrator may be taken in accordance with procedures that the Plan Administrator adopts from time to time or that the Company s Law Department determines are legally permissible.   

7.3   
   Powers of the Plan Administrator.         The Plan Administrator shall administer and manage the Plan and shall have (and shall be permitted to delegate) all powers necessary to accomplish that purpose, including the following:   

(a)  
  To exercise its discretionary authority to construe, interpret, and administer this Plan;     

(b)  
  To exercise its discretionary authority to make all decisions regarding eligibility, participation and deferrals, to make allocations and determinations required by
this Plan, and to maintain records regarding Participants  Accounts;         

(c)  
  To compute and certify to the Employers the amount and kinds of payments to Participants or their Beneficiaries, and to determine the time and manner in which such
payments are to be paid;         

(d)  
  To authorize all disbursements by the Employer pursuant to this Plan;         

(e)  
  To maintain (or cause to be maintained) all the necessary records for administration of this Plan;     
         22   

(f)  
  To make and publish such rules for the regulation of this Plan as are not inconsistent with the terms hereof;     

(g)  
  To delegate to other individuals or entities from time to time the performance of any of its duties or responsibilities hereunder;     

(h)  
  To establish or to change the phantom investment options or arrangements under Article V;     

(i)  
  To hire agents, accountants, actuaries, consultants and legal counsel to assist in operating and administering the Plan; and     

(j)  
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan except Section 7.6 (relating to compliance with Section 409A), the Plan Administrator or the Recordkeeper may
take any action the Plan Administrator deems is necessary to assure compliance with any policy of the Company respecting insider trading as may be in effect from time to time. Such actions may include altering the effective date of intra-fund
transfers or the distribution date of Participant s Accounts. Any such actions shall alter the normal operation of the Plan to the minimum extent necessary.        The Plan Administrator has the exclusive and discretionary authority to construe and to interpret the Plan, to decide all questions of eligibility for benefits, to determine the amount and manner of
payment of such benefits and to make any determinations that are contemplated by (or permissible under) the terms of this Plan, and its decisions on such matters will be final and conclusive on all parties. Any such decision or determination shall
be made in the absolute and unrestricted discretion of the Plan Administrator, even if (1) such discretion is not expressly granted by the Plan provisions in question, or (2) a determination is not expressly called for by the Plan
provisions in question, and even though other Plan provisions expressly grant discretion or call for a determination. As a result, benefits under this Plan will be paid only if the Plan Administrator decides in its discretion that the applicant is
entitled to them. In the event of a review by a court, arbitrator or any other tribunal, any exercise of the Plan Administrator s discretionary authority shall not be disturbed unless it is clearly shown to be arbitrary and capricious.
  
         23   

7.4   
   Compensation, Indemnity and Liability.         The Plan Administrator will serve without bond and without compensation for services hereunder. All expenses of the Plan and the Plan Administrator will be paid by the Employers. To the extent deemed
appropriate by the Plan Administrator, any such expense may be charged against specific Participant Accounts, thereby reducing the obligation of the Employers. No member of the PAC (which serves as the Plan Administrator) or PIC, and no individual
acting as the delegate of the PAC or PIC, shall be liable for any act or omission of any other member or individual, nor for any act or omission on his or her own part, excepting his or her own willful misconduct. The Employers (other than the
Company) will indemnify and hold harmless each member of the PAC and PIC and any employee of the Company (or a Company affiliate, if recognized as an affiliate for this purpose by the Plan Administrator) acting as the delegate of the PAC or PIC
against any and all expenses and liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and expenses, arising in connection with this Plan out of his or her membership on the PAC or PIC (or his or her serving as the delegate of the PAC or PIC), excepting only
expenses and liabilities arising out of his or her own willful misconduct or bad faith.       
    The
Employer shall withhold from amounts due under this Plan, any amount necessary to enable the Employer to remit to the appropriate government entity or entities on behalf of the Participant as may be required by the federal income tax provisions of
the Code, by an applicable state s income tax provisions, and by an applicable city, county or municipality s earnings or income tax provisions. Further, the Employer shall withhold from the payroll of, or collect from, a Participant the
amount necessary to remit on behalf of the Participant any Social Security or Medicare taxes which may be required with respect to amounts deferred or accrued by a Participant hereunder, as determined by the Employer. In addition, to the extent
required by Section 409A, amounts deferred under this Plan shall be reported on each Participant s Form W-2 for the applicable tax year,   
         24   

and any amounts that become taxable hereunder shall be reported as taxable wages on the Participant s Form W-2 for the applicable tax year. All such reporting and withholding shall be
performed based on the rules and procedures of Section 409A.   
         25   

ARTICLE VIII   CLAIMS PROCEDURE    
   
    If
a Participant, Beneficiary or other person (hereafter,  Claimant ) does not receive timely payment of any benefits which he or she believes are due and payable under the Plan, he or she may make a claim for benefits to the Plan
Administrator. The claim for benefits must be in writing and addressed to the Plan Administrator. If the claim for benefits is denied, the Plan Administrator will notify the Claimant within 90 days after the Plan Administrator initially received the
benefit claim. However, if special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim, the Plan Administrator will furnish notice of the extension to the Claimant prior to the termination of the initial 90-day period and such
extension may not exceed one additional, consecutive 90-day period. Any notice of a denial of benefits shall advise the Claimant of the basis for the denial, any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect his or her
claim, and the steps which the Claimant must take to appeal his or her claim for benefits.       

8.2   
   Appeals of Denied Claims.      
  Each Claimant whose claim for benefits has been denied may file a written appeal for a review of his or her claim by the Plan
Administrator. The request for review must be filed by the Claimant within 60 days after he or she received the notice denying his or her claim. The decision of the Plan Administrator will be communicated to the Claimant within 60 days after receipt
of a request for appeal. The notice shall set forth the basis for the Plan Administrator s decision. However, if special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the appeal, the Plan Administrator will furnish notice of the
extension to the Claimant prior to the termination of the initial 60-day period and such extension may not exceed one additional, consecutive 60-day period. In no event shall the Plan Administrator s decision be rendered later than 120 days
after receipt of a request for appeal.   
         26   

ARTICLE IX   AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION    

9.1   
   Amendment to the Plan.          

(a)  
  The Company, or its delegate, has the right in its sole discretion to amend this Plan in whole or in part at any time and in any manner, including the terms and
conditions of Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions, the terms on which distributions are made, and the form and timing of distributions. However, except for mere clarifying amendments necessary to avoid an inappropriate windfall, no Plan
amendment shall reduce the balance of a Participant s ARC Equalization Account as of the date such amendment is adopted. In addition, the Company shall have the limited right to amend the Plan at any time, retroactively or otherwise, in such
respects and to such extent as may be necessary to fully qualify it under existing and applicable laws and regulations, and if and to the extent necessary to accomplish such purpose, may by such amendment decrease or otherwise affect benefits to
which Participants may have already become entitled, notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary.         

(b)  
  The Company s right to amend the Plan shall not be affected or limited in any way by a Participant s Separation from Service, death or disability. Prior
practices by the Company or an Employer shall not diminish in any way the rights granted the Company under this Section. Also, it is expressly permissible for an amendment to affect less than all of the Participants covered by the Plan.

(c)  
  Any amendment shall be in writing and adopted by the Company or by any officer of the Company who has authority or who has been granted or delegated the authority to
amend this Plan. An amendment or restatement of this Plan shall not affect the validity or scope of any grant or delegation of such authority, which shall instead be solely determined based upon the terms of the grant or delegation (as determined
under applicable law). All Participants and Beneficiaries shall be bound by such amendment.     
         27   

(d)  
  Any amendments made to the Plan shall be subject to any restrictions on amendment that are applicable to ensure continued compliance under Section 409A.

(a)  
  The Company expects to continue this Plan, but does not obligate itself to do so. The Company reserves the right to discontinue and terminate the Plan at any time, in
whole or in part, for any reason (including a change, or an impending change, in the tax laws of the United States or any State within the United States). Termination of the Plan will be binding on all Participants (and a partial termination shall
be binding upon all affected Participants) and their Beneficiaries, but in no event may such termination reduce the amounts credited at that time to any Participant s ARC Equalization Account. If this Plan is terminated (in whole or in part),
the termination resolution shall provide for how amounts theretofore credited to affected Participants  ARC Equalization Accounts will be distributed.     

(b)  
  This Section is subject to the same restrictions related to compliance with Section 409A that apply to Section 9.1. In accordance with these restrictions, the
Company intends to have the maximum discretionary authority to terminate the Plan and make distributions in connection with a Change in Control (as defined in Section 409A), and the maximum flexibility with respect to how and to what extent to
carry this out following a Change in Control (as defined in Section 409A) as is permissible under Section 409A. The previous sentence contains the exclusive terms under which a distribution may be made in connection with any Change in Control
with respect to deferrals made under this 409A Program.     
         28   

ARTICLE X   MISCELLANEOUS    

10.1   
   Limitation on Participant Rights.         Participation in this Plan does not give any Participant the right to be retained in the Employer s or Company s employ (or any right or interest in this Plan or any assets of the Company or
Employer other than as herein provided). The Company and Employer reserve the right to terminate the employment of any Participant without any liability for any claim against the Company or Employer under this Plan, except for a claim for payment of
benefits as provided herein.       

10.2   
   Unfunded Obligation of Individual Employer.         The benefits provided by this Plan are unfunded. All amounts payable under this Plan to Participants are paid from the general assets of the Participant s individual Employer. Nothing contained in
this Plan requires the Company or Employer to set aside or hold in trust any amounts or assets for the purpose of paying benefits to Participants. Neither a Participant, Beneficiary, nor any other person shall have any property interest, legal or
equitable, in any specific Employer asset. This Plan creates only a contractual obligation on the part of a Participant s individual Employer, and the Participant has the status of a general unsecured creditor of his or her Employer with
respect to benefits granted hereunder. Such a Participant shall not have any preference or priority over, the rights of any other unsecured general creditor of the Employer. No other Employer guarantees or shares such obligation, and no other
Employer shall have any liability to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary. In the event a Participant transfers from the employment of one Employer to another, the former Employer shall transfer the liability for benefits made while the
Participant was employed by that Employer to the new Employer (and the books of both Employers shall be adjusted appropriately).   
         29   

This Plan shall not affect the right of any Eligible Employee or Participant to participate in and receive benefits under and in
accordance with the provisions of any other employee benefit plans which are now or hereafter maintained by any Employer, unless the terms of such other employee benefit plan or plans specifically provide otherwise or it would cause such other plan
to violate a requirement for tax-favored treatment.       
    Any
payment to a Participant or Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of this Plan shall, to the extent thereof, be in full satisfaction of all claims against the Plan Administrator, the Employer and the Company, and the Plan Administrator may
require such Participant or Beneficiary, as a condition precedent to such payment, to execute a receipt and release to such effect.       
    This Plan
shall be construed, administered, and governed in all respects in accordance with ERISA and, to the extent not preempted by ERISA, in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. If any provisions of this instrument shall be held by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be fully effective.       

10.6   
   Adoption of Plan by Related Employers.         The Plan Administrator may select as an Employer any division of the Company, as well as any member of the PepsiCo Organization, and permit or cause such division or organization to adopt the Plan. The
selection by the Plan Administrator shall govern the effective date of the adoption of the Plan by such related Employer. The requirements for Plan adoption are entirely within the discretion of the Plan Administrator and, in any case where the
status of an entity as an Employer is at issue, the determination of the Plan Administrator shall be absolutely conclusive.   
         30   

The provisions of this Plan shall be construed according to the following rules:   

(a)  
   Gender and Number . Whenever the context so indicates, the singular or plural number and the masculine, feminine, or neuter gender shall be deemed to include the
other (or others).         

(b)  
   Examples . Whenever an example is provided or the text uses the term  including  followed by a specific item or items, or there is a passage having a
similar effect, such passage of the Plan shall be construed as if the phrase  without limitation  followed such example or term (or otherwise applied to such passage in a manner that avoids limitation on its breadth of application).

(c)  
   Compounds of the Word  Here  . The words  hereof ,  herein ,  hereunder  and other similar compounds of the word
 here  shall mean and refer to the entire Plan, not to any particular provision or section.         

(d)  
   Effect of Specific References . Specific references in the Plan to the Plan Administrator s discretion shall create no inference that the Plan
Administrator s discretion in any other respect, or in connection with any other provisions, is less complete or broad.         

(e)  
   Subdivisions of the Plan Document . This Plan document is divided and subdivided using the following progression: articles, sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs and clauses. Articles are designated by capital roman numerals. Sections are designated by Arabic numerals containing a decimal point. Subsections are designated by lower-case letters in parentheses. Paragraphs are designated by Arabic
numbers in parentheses. Subparagraphs are designated by lower-case roman numerals in parenthesis. Clauses are designated by upper-case letters in parentheses. Any reference in a section to a subsection (with no accompanying section reference) shall
be read as a reference to the subsection with the specified designation contained in that same section. A similar reading shall apply with respect to paragraph references within a subsection and subparagraph references within a paragraph.
    
         31   

(f)  
   Invalid Provisions . If any provision of this Plan is, or is hereafter declared to be void, voidable, invalid or otherwise unlawful, the remainder of the Plan
shall not be affected thereby.         

10.8   
   Successors and Assigns; Nonalienation of Benefits.         This Plan inures to the benefit of and is binding upon the parties hereto and their successors, heirs and assigns; provided, however, that the amounts credited to the ARC Equalization Account of a
Participant are not (except as provided in Sections 5.5) subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, charge, garnishment, execution or levy of any kind, either voluntary or involuntary, and any
attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber, charge or otherwise dispose of any right to any benefits payable hereunder, including, without limitation, any assignment or alienation in connection with a separation,
divorce, child support or similar arrangement, will be null and void and not binding on the Plan or the Company or any Employer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan Administrator reserves the right to make payments in accordance with a divorce
decree, judgment or other court order as and when cash payments are made in accordance with the terms of this Plan from the ARC Equalization Account of a Participant. Any such payment shall be charged against and reduce the Participant s ARC
Equalization Account.       
 
  Whenever, in the Plan Administrator s opinion, a Participant or Beneficiary entitled to receive any payment hereunder is under a
legal disability or is incapacitated in any way so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Plan Administrator may direct the Employer to make payments to such person or to the legal representative of such person for his or her
benefit, or to apply the payment for the benefit of such person in such manner as the Plan Administrator considers advisable. Any payment in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be a complete discharge of any liability for the making
of such payment to the Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan.   
         32   

Any claim
filed under Article VIII and any action filed in state or federal court by or on behalf of a former or current Employee, Participant, Beneficiary or any other individual, person or entity (collectively, a  Petitioner ) for the alleged
wrongful denial of Plan benefits or for the alleged interference with or violation of ERISA-protected rights must be brought within two years of the date the Petitioner s cause of action first accrues. For purposes of this subsection, a cause
of action with respect to a Petitioner s benefits under the Plan shall be deemed to accrue not later than the earliest of (i) when the Petitioner has received the calculation of the benefits that are the subject of the claim or legal
action (ii) the date identified to the Petitioner by the Plan Administrator on which payments shall commence, or (iii) when the Petitioner has actual or constructive knowledge of the facts that are the basis of his claim. For purposes of
this subsection, a cause of action with respect to the alleged interference with ERISA-protected rights shall be deemed to accrue when the claimant has actual or constructive knowledge of the acts that are alleged to interfere with ERISA-protected
rights. Failure to bring any such claim or cause of action within this two-year time frame shall preclude a Petitioner, or any representative of the Petitioner, from filing the claim or cause of action. Correspondence or other communications
following the mandatory appeals process described in Section 8.2 shall have no effect on this two-year time frame.       
    Any claim or
action filed in court or any other tribunal in connection with the Plan by or on behalf of a Petitioner (as defined in Section 10.10 above) shall only be brought or filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York.       
    At
all times during each Plan Year, this Plan shall be operated in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A. In all cases, the provisions of this Section shall apply notwithstanding any contrary provision of the Plan that is not contained
in this Section.   
         33   

To avoid the
application of Code section 457A ( Section 457A ) to benefits under the Plan, the following shall apply to a Participant who transfers to a work location outside of the United States to provide services to a member of the PepsiCo
Organization that is neither a United States corporation nor a pass-through entity that is wholly owned by a United States corporation ( Covered Transfer ):       

(a)  
  The Participant shall automatically vest in his or her ARC Equalization Account as of the last business day before the Covered Transfer;     

(b)  
  All Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions relating to service from and after the Covered Transfer shall be allocated to the Participant s ARC Equalization
Account solely on an annual basis as of the last day of the Plan Year to which they relate; and         

(c)  
  The Participant shall have no legal right to receive (and the Participant shall not receive) an allocation of Equalized Automatic Retirement Contributions for the Plan
Year to the extent the allocation would constitute compensation that is includable in income under Section 457A.        Notwithstanding the foregoing, subsections (a) and (b) above shall not apply to a Participant who has a Covered Transfer if, prior to the Covered Transfer, the Company provides a written
communication (either to the Participant individually, to a group of similar Participants, to Participants generally, or in any other way that causes the communication to apply to the Participant  i.e ., an  applicable
communication ) that these subsections do not apply to the Covered Transfer in question. Subsection (b) shall cease to apply as of the earlier of   (i) the date the Participant returns to service for a member of the PepsiCo
Organization that is a United States corporation or a pass-through entity that is wholly owned by a United States corporation, or (ii) the effective date for such cessation that is stated in an applicable communication.   
         34   

ARTICLE XI   ERISA PLAN STRUCTURE    
  This Plan document encompasses two separate plans within the meaning of ERISA, as set forth in Sections 11.1 and 11.2 below. These two
plans are severable for any and all purposes as directed by the Company.       
    An
excess benefit plan within the meaning of ERISA section 3(36), maintained solely for the purpose of providing benefits for Savings Plan participants in excess of the limitations on benefits imposed by Code section 415.   

11.2   
   Excess Compensation Top Hat Plan.         A plan maintained by the Company primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of ERISA sections 201(2)
and 401(a)(1). The plan provides benefits for Savings Plan participants in excess of the limitations imposed by Code section 401(a)(17) on benefits under the Savings Plan (after taking into account any benefits under the Excess Benefit Plan).

11.3   
   Allocation of Benefits Among Plans.         Benefits under this Plan shall be allocated first to the Excess Benefit Plan, to the extent of benefits paid for the purpose indicated in Section 11.1 above, and then any remaining benefits shall be
allocated to the Excess Compensation Top Hat Plan.   
         35   

ARTICLE XII   SIGNATURE    
  This Plan is hereby adopted this 16   th    day of December, 2010, to be effective as of January 1, 2011.   

PEPSICO, INC.    

By:  
     
  /s/ Cynthia M. Trudell   

Cynthia M. Trudell   

Senior Vice President, Human Resources   

Chief Personnel Officer   

APPROVED:   

By:  
     
  /s/ Stacy L. DeWalt           

Stacy L. DeWalt   

Law Department   
 
         36   

APPENDIX A   MERGER OF PGB SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN    
   
    This Article sets
forth special provisions applicable to amounts earned under the PBG Supplemental Savings Plan ( PBG Plan ) prior to the merger of that plan with and into this Plan. Amounts earned under the PBG Plan prior to the merger shall be credited to
a subaccount of the Participant s ARC Equalization Account ( PBG Plan Subaccount ). All other defined terms used herein shall have the meaning assigned to such term under Article II unless otherwise indicated.   
   A.2 Provisions Applicable to Amounts Earned Under PBG Plan.       Except as otherwise set forth in this Section A.2, the terms and conditions applicable to a Participant s PBG Plan Subaccount are governed by the prior document for the PBG Plan.   

(a)  
   Investment Mapping . A Participant s PBG Plan Subaccount shall be mapped to the phantom investment options that are available for Equalized Automatic
Retirement Contributions under Article V of this Plan according to the same mapping method that will apply for purposes of transferring the Participants  account balance under the PBG Savings Plan to the investment options available under the
Savings Plan, except as otherwise provided by the Plan Administrator. Once the Participant s PBG Plan Subaccount balance has been mapped as provided in the preceding sentence, the PBG Plan Subaccount shall be subject to the investment
provisions set forth in Article V.         

(b)  
     Phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund . Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, the portion of a Participant s PBG Plan Subaccount that is
invested in the phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund shall not be subject to mapping, but instead shall remain invested in the phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund until such time as the Participant makes a reinvestment election. Thereafter, such portion
of the Participant s PBG Plan Subaccount shall remain eligible for      
         37   

investment and reinvestment in the phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund (notwithstanding any restrictions on investment in the phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund that may apply generally under
Article V) in accordance with procedures established by the Plan Administrator for this purpose.         

(c)  
   Time and Form of Payment . A Participant s PBG Plan Subaccount shall be paid on the first day of the calendar month following the Distribution Valuation Date
that next follows the earliest of the following:         

(1)  
  The Participant s Separation from Service;         

(2)  
  The Participant s death; or         

(3)  
  A change in control of the Participant s Employer (other than the successor to the Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc.), as defined in Section 409A.
       Distributions upon Separation from Service under this subsection shall be subject to Section 6.5 (Delay for
Key Employees), except that no priority shall be given to Section 6.4.       

(d)  
  Phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund Restrictions. To the extent necessary to ensure compliance with Rule 16b-3(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
 Act ), the Company may arrange for tracking of any such transaction defined in Rule 16b-3(b)(l) of the Act involving the phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund and the Company may bar any such transaction to the extent it would not be exempt
under Rule 16b-3(f). The Company will impose blackout periods pursuant to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 whenever the Company determines that circumstances warrant. Further, the Company may impose quarterly blackout periods on
insider trading in the Phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund as need (as determined by the Company), timed to coincide with the release of the Company s quarterly earnings reports. The commencement and termination of these blackout periods in each
quarter, the parties to which they apply and the activities they restrict shall be as set forth in the official insider trading policy promulgated by the Company from time to time.     
         38   

(e)  
  Impact, of Securities Law on Distributions. The provisions of (d) above and this subparagraph (e), shall apply in determining whether a Participant s
distribution shall be delayed beyond the date applicable under Article VI of the Plan.        (i) In
General. This Plan is intended to be a formula plan for purposes of Section 16 of the Act. Accordingly, in the case of a deferral or other action under the Plan that constitutes a transaction that could be covered by Rule 16b-3(d) or
(e) of the Act, if it were approved by the Company s Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee ( Board Approval ), it is intended that the Plan shall be administered by delegates of the Compensation Committee, in the case
of a Participant who is subject to Section 16 of the Act, in a manner that will permit the Board Approval of the Plan to avoid any additional Board Approval of specific transactions to the maximum possible extent.   
  (ii) Approval of Distributions. This subsection shall govern the distribution of a deferral that (i) is wholly or
partly invested in the Phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund at the time the deferral would be valued to determine the amount of cash to be distributed to a Participant, (ii) was not covered by an agreement, made at the time of the
Participant s original phantom investment election, that any investments in the phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund would, once made, remain in that fund until distribution, (iii) is made to a Participant who is subject to Section 16 of
the Act at the time the interest in the phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund would be liquidated in connection with the distribution, and (iv) if paid at the time the distribution would be made without regard to this subsection, could result in a
violation of Section 16 of the Act because there is an opposite way transaction that would be matched with the liquidation of the Participant s interest in the phantom PepsiCo Common Stock
  
         39   

Fund (either as a  discretionary transaction,  within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(1), or as a regular transaction, as applicable) (a  Covered Distribution ). In the case of a
Covered Distribution, if the liquidation of the Participant s interest in the phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund in connection with the distribution has not received Board Approval by the time the distribution would be made if it were not a
Covered Distribution, or if it is a discretionary transaction, then the actual distribution to the Participant shall be delayed only until the earlier of:      (1) In the case of a transaction that is not a discretionary transaction, Board Approval of the liquidation of the Participant s interest in the phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund in connection with
the distribution, and      (2) The date the distribution would no longer violate Section 16 of the Act,
 e.g ., when the Participant is no longer subject to Section 16 of the Act, when the balance related to the distribution is no longer invested in the phantom PepsiCo Common Stock Fund, or when the time between the liquidation and an
opposite way transaction is sufficient.   
         40   

</EX-10.70>

<EX-10.71>
 6
 d269581dex1071.htm
 AMENDMENT TO THE PEPSICO PENSION EQUALIZATION PLAN

Amendment to the PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan 

Exhibit 10.71        DECEMBER 2011 AMENDMENT TO THE        PEPSICO PENSION EQUALIZATION PLAN
       AND THE PBG PENSION EQUALIZATION PLAN       The PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan ( PepsiCo PEP ) and the PBG Pension Equalization Plan ( PBG PEP ) are amended as set forth below, effective as of January 1, 2011 except as
otherwise indicated below.      I.      Effective as of the end of the day on December 31, 2011, the PBG PEP is hereby merged with and into the PepsiCo PEP, with the PepsiCo PEP as the surviving plan after the merger.   
  The April 1, 2009 Restatement of the PBG PEP, as amended through January 1, 2011 ( 409A PBG PEP Document ) shall be
attached as Appendix Article PBG 409A to the PepsiCo PEP document for the 409A Program ( 409A PepsiCo PEP Document ) and shall continue to govern PBG PEP benefits that were subject to the 409A PBG PEP Document prior to the plan merger,
except as follows:       

(i)  
  Articles VII (Administration), VIII (Miscellaneous) and IX (Amendment and Termination) of the 409A PBG PEP Document shall be deleted, and     

(ii)  
  Articles VII (Administration), VIII (Miscellaneous) and IX (Amendment and Termination), X (ERISA Plan Structure) and XI (Applicable Law) of the 409A PepsiCo PEP
Document shall apply to PBG PEP benefits governed by the 409A PBG PEP Document.        There shall be no change to the time or form of
payment of benefits that are subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A ( Section 409A ) under either the PepsiCo PEP or PBG PEP Document as a result of the merger or the foregoing revisions to the 409A PepsiCo PEP Document and
409A PBG PEP Document.   

The PBG PEP document that was in effect on October 3, 2004 as amended through
January 1, 2011 ( Pre-409A PBG PEP Document ) shall be attached as Appendix Article PBG Pre-409A to the PepsiCo PEP document for the Pre-409A Program ( Pre-409A PepsiCo PEP Document ) and shall continue to govern PBG PEP
benefits that were grandfathered under Section 409A and subject to the Pre-409A PBG PEP Document prior to the plan merger, except as follows:       

(iii)  
  Articles VII (Administration), VIII (Miscellaneous), IX (Amendment and Termination), X (ERISA Plan Structure) and XI (Applicable Law) of the Pre-409A PBG PEP Document
shall be deleted, and         

(iv)  
  Articles VII (Administration), VIII (Miscellaneous) and IX (Amendment and Termination), X (ERISA Plan Structure) and XI (Applicable Law) of the Pre-409A PepsiCo PEP
Document shall apply to PBG PEP benefits governed by the Pre-409A PBG PEP Document.        There shall be no change to the time or form
of payment of benefits that are subject to Section 409A under either the PepsiCo PEP or PBG PEP that would constitute a material modification within the meaning of Treas. Reg.   1.409A-6(a)(4) as a result of the merger or the foregoing
revisions to the Pre-409A PepsiCo PEP Document and Pre-409A PBG PEP Document.      II.   
  In Article I of the 409A PepsiCo PEP Document, the second sentence of the third paragraph is amended to read as follows:   
   It sets forth the terms of the Plan that are applicable to benefits that are subject to Section 409A,  i.e ., generally,
benefits that are earned or vested after December 31, 2004 or materially modified within the meaning of Treas. Reg.   1.409A-6(a)(4) (the  409A Program ).    
         2   

III.      Effective as of January 1, 2009, Section 5.4 of the 409A PepsiCo PEP Document is amended by adding a new subsection (c) at the end thereof to read as follows:   
  (c)  No Benefit Offsets That Would Violate Section 409A . If a Participant has earned a benefit under a plan
maintained by a member of the PepsiCo Organization that is a  qualifying plan  for purposes of the  Transfers and Non-Duplication  rule in Section 3.6 of the Salaried Plan, such Transfers and Non-Duplication rule shall apply
when calculating the Participant s Total Pension under Section 5.1 (c)(1) above only to the extent the application of such rule to the Participant s 409A Pension will not result in a change in the time or form of payment of such
pension that is prohibited by Section 409A. For purposes of the limit on offsets in the preceding sentence, it is PepsiCo s intent to undertake to make special arrangements with respect to the payment of the benefit under the qualifying
plan that are legally permissible under the qualifying plan and compliant with Section 409A, in order to avoid such a change in time or form of payment to the maximum extent possible; to the extent that Section 409A compliant special
arrangements are timely put into effect in a particular situation, the limit on offsets in the prior sentence will not apply.   
  IV.      The 409A
PepsiCo PEP Document is hereby amended by adding the following new Appendix Article D at the end thereof, effective as of January 1, 2011.       APPENDIX ARTICLE D        U.K. Supplementary Appendix Participants with
U.S. Service        

D.l  
   Scope :     
  This Article applies to  Covered U.K. Employees  as defined in Section D.2 below. The benefit of a Covered U.K.
Employee shall be determined as provided in Section D.3   
         3   

below. Once a benefit is determined for a Covered U.K. Employee under this Article, it shall be paid in accordance with the Plan s normal terms regarding the time and form of payment. All
benefits payable under this Article are subject to Code section 409A. This Article is effective January 1, 2011.       

D.2  
    Covered U.K. Employee  Defined :        A  Covered U.K. Employee  is a participant in the PepsiCo U.K. Pension Plan ( U.K. Participant ) who (i) becomes subject to United States income taxes,  e.g ., by
transferring to a position with the Company in the United States or otherwise (hereinafter referenced as  Engages in U.S. Service ), (ii) continues to accrue benefits under the PepsiCo U.K. Pension Plan after he Engages in U.S.
Service, and (iii) would have also accrued a benefit under the U.K. Supplementary Pension Appendix for such period following when he Engages in U.S. Service (except for the unavailability of accruals under such Appendix for the period a U.K.
Participant Engages in U.S. Service). The period that a U.K. Participant Engages in U.S. Service shall begin on the first day that he becomes subject to United States income taxes (his  U.S. Commencement Date ), and it shall end on the
last day that he is subject to U.S. income taxes or, if earlier, the date his Plan benefits under this Article D commence (his  U.S. Cessation Date ).       

D.3  
   Benefit for Covered U.K. Employees :        A Covered U.K. Employee s benefit under the Plan shall be determined by calculating, as of his U.S. Cessation Date, his  Total U.K. Supplementary Benefit  and then subtracting from this
amount his  Frozen U.K. Supplementary Benefit.  For this purpose, a Covered U.K. Employee s    
         4   

(a)  Total U.K. Supplementary Benefit  is equal to the total
benefit that he would have under the terms of the U.K. Supplementary Pension Appendix, calculated based on all service and compensation with the Company through his U.S. Cessation Date that is counted in the calculation of his benefit under the
PepsiCo U.K. Pension Plan (or that would be counted but for a limitation applicable to the plan under U.K. law), and with such total benefit expressed in the form of a single lump sum that is payable as of the date his benefits under this Article D
commence, and      (b)  Frozen U.K. Supplementary Benefit  is equal to the total benefit that he had
under the terms of the U.K. Supplementary Pension Appendix as of immediately before his U.S. Commencement Date, and with such total benefit expressed in the form of a single lump sum that is payable as of the date his benefits under this Article D
commence.      The calculation provided for in the preceding sentence shall be made in accordance with the operating rules set forth in Section
D.4 below.      D.4  Operating Rules:       The following operating rules apply to the calculation in Section D.3. above.      (a) In general, accruals under PepsiCo U.K. Pension Plan for the period after a Covered U.K. Employee s U.S. Cessation Date shall not reduce the benefit under this Article D determined under Section
D.3. Notwithstanding the prior sentence and anything in Section D.3 to the contrary, to the extent a Covered U.K. Employee s accruals under the PepsiCo U.K. Pension Plan for the period after a Covered U.K. Employee s U.S. Cessation Date
have more than fully offset the Covered U.K. Employee s accruals under the U.K. Supplementary Pension Appendix (and the   
         5   

excess would have been offset against the benefit under this Article D had such benefit accrued under the U.K. Supplementary Appendix), then any such excess as of the date benefits under this
Article D commence (expressed as a lump sum as of such date) shall be offset against the benefits under this Article D to the extent such offset would not violate Code Section 409A.   
  (b) In determining the value of a lump sum under this Article D, the actuarial assumptions that are used shall be
actuarial assumptions that comply with Section 417(e) of the Code and, specifically, are the assumptions that would be used under the PepsiCo Salaried Employees Retirement Plan to pay a retirement lump sum as of the date applicable that the lump sum
in question is to be determined under this Article D.      (c) A Covered U.K. Employee s Frozen U.K.
Supplementary Benefit shall be determined on the basis of assuming that the Covered U.K. employee voluntarily terminated employment and any other service relationship with the PepsiCo Organization as of immediately before his U.S. Commencement Date.
     (d) This subsection applies if the terms of the PepsiCo U.K. Pension Plan or the U.K. Supplementary Pension
Appendix are amended during a year in a way that would change the results under the Section D.3 calculation, and such amendment otherwise applies earlier than the immediately following year. In this case, to the extent that doing is necessary to
comply with Code Section 409A, the calculation in Section D.3 shall be made by delaying the application of the amendment so that it is prospectively effective starting with the immediately following year.   
         6   

(e) In the event a Covered U.K. Employee (i) has earned a benefit under
this Article D, (2) has reached his U.S. Cessation Date, and (iii) then again Engages in U.S. Service, the foregoing terms shall be applied again to determine if he earns a benefit for the new period that he Engages in U.S. Service, except
that any resulting benefit from this new period shall be reduced by the lump sum value of any prior benefit under this Article D (as necessary to completely avoid any duplication of benefits).   
  D.5  No Other Benefits :   
  A Covered U.K. Employee shall not be entitled to any other benefits under this Plan or the Salaried Plan for so long as he remains a
Covered U.K. Employee.      V.      The definition of  Plan  in Section 2.1 of Appendix Article PBG 409A is amended to read as follows:      (m) Plan. Effective January 1, 2012, Appendix Article PBG 409A of the PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan, as set forth herein, and as amended from time to time. Prior to January 1,2012, the PBG
Pension Equalization Plan, as amended from time to time. In these documents, the Plan is also sometimes referred to as PEP. For periods before April 6, 1999, references to the Plan refer to the PepsiCo Prior Plan.   
  VI.   
  Section 4.3 of Appendix Article PBG 409A is amended by adding a new subsection (c) at the end thereof to read as follows (an
identical amendment is added to the PBG 409A PEP Document effective as of January 1, 2009):      (c)  No
Benefit Offsets That Would Violate Section 409A.  If a Participant has earned a benefit under a plan maintained by a member of the PepsiCo/PBG Organization that is a  qualifying plan  for purposes of the  Transfers and
Non-  
         7   

Duplication  rule in Section 3.6 of the Salaried Plan, such Transfers and Non-Duplication rule shall apply when calculating the amount determined under Section 4.1(a)(1) or
4.1(b)(1) above (as applicable) only to the extent the application of such rule will not result in a change in the time or form of payment of such pension that is prohibited by Section 409A. For purposes of the limit on offsets in the preceding
sentence, it is PepsiCo s intent to undertake to make special arrangements with respect to the payment of the benefit under the qualifying plan that are legally permissible under the qualifying plan, and compliant with Section 409A, in
order to avoid such a change in time or form of payment to the maximum extent possible; to the extent that Section 409A compliant special arrangements are timely put into effect in a particular situation, the limit on offsets in the prior
sentence will not apply.      [Remainder of this page intentionally left blank.]   
         8   

PEPSICO, INC.    

By:  
     
  /s/ Cynthia M. Trudell   

Cynthia M. Trudell   

Executive Vice President, Human Resources   

Chief Personnel Officer   

Date: December 20, 2011   

APPROVED:   

By:  
     
  /s/ Stacy L. DeWalt            

Stacy L. DeWalt   

Employee Benefits Counsel   

Law Department   

Date: December 6, 2011   
 
         9   

</EX-10.71>

<EX-12>
 7
 d269581dex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

EXHIBIT 12       PEPSICO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES      Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
   (a)      
  Years Ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010, December 26, 2009,   
  December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007      (in millions except ratio amounts)       

(a)  
    Based on unrounded amounts.      

(b)  
    One-third of net rent expense is the portion deemed representative of the interest factor.      

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 8
 d269581dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF PEPSICO, INC.

Subsidiaries of PepsiCo, Inc. 

EXHIBIT 21         PEPSICO, INC. SUBSIDIARIES         

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Abechuko Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Ahmedabad Advertising   Marketing  
      
  India   
 
  Consultants Company Private  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Limited Aldona Holding B.V.  

Alegro Internacional, S. de R. L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Alikate Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Alimentos del Istmo S. A.  
      
  Panama   
 
  Alimentos Quaker Oats y Compania Limitada  
      
  Guatemala   
 
  Alimesa S.A.  
      
  Argentina   
 
  Amavale Agricola Ltda.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  Amcor Rigid Plastics Atlantic Inc.  
      
  Canada   
 
  Anderson Hill Insurance Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Aquafina Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Aradhana Convenience Foods Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Aradhana Drinks and Beverages Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Aradhana Foods and Juices Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Aradhana Snack Food Company Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Aradhana Soft Drinks Company  
      
  India   
 
  Ardea Beverage Company  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Balwerk VI - Consultadoria Economica e Participacoes  
      
  Portugal   
 
  Sociedade Unipessoal, Lta.  

Beaman Bottling Company  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Bebidas Purificadas de Occidente, S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Bebidas Purificadas del Centro, S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Bebidas Purificadas S.R.L.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Beech Limited  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Beijing Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Beimiguel Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Bell Taco Funding Syndicate  
      
  Australia   
 
  Bendler Investments S.a r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  Bermuda Holdings, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Beverage Service Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Beverage Services, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Beverages, Foods   Service Industries, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Bienes Raices Metropolitanos, S.R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Blaue NC, S. de R. L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Bluebird Foods Limited  
      
  New Zealand   
 
  Boquitas Fiestas LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Boquitas Fiestas S.R.L.  
      
  Honduras   
 
  Border Properties, Inc.  
      
  United States, New York   
 
  Bosso Holdings, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Bottling Group Espana, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Bottling Group Financing, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Bottling Group Holdings, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Bottling Group Servicios Centrales SL  
      
  Spain   
 
  Bottling Group, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Bottling Investment Chile  
      
  Bahamas   
 
  Brading Holding S.a.r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  Bramshaw  
      
  Ireland   
 
  BUG de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  C   I Leasing, Inc.  
      
  United States, Maryland   
 
  Calbee, Inc.  
      
  Japan   
 
  Cane Investments S.a. r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  Canguro Rojo Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Capital Services Associates  
      
  Curacao   
 
  Caribbean Flavors, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Caroni Investments, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Catalana de Bebidas Carbonicas, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  CEME Holdings, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Central American Bottling Corporation  
      
  British Virgin Islands   
 
  Central K, Inc.  
      
  United States, Florida   
 
  Centro-Levantina de Bebidas Carbonicas PepsiCo S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Centro-Mediterreanea de Bebidas Carbonicas PepsiCo S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Changchun Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Changsha Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Chengdu PepsiCo Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  China Bottlers (Hong Kong) Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  China Concentrate Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Chipiga, S. de R. L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Chipsy for Food Industries S.A.E.  
      
  Egypt   
 
  Chipsy International for Food Industries S.A.E.  
      
  Egypt   
 
  Chitos International y Cia Ltd.  
      
  Guatemala   
 
  Chongqing Pepsi Tianfu Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Cipa Industria de Produtos Alimentares Ltda.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  Cipa Nordeste Industria de Produtos Alimentares Ltda.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  CMC Investment Company  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Comercializadora Nacional SAS, Ltda.  
      
  Colombia   
 
  Comercializadora PepsiCo Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Comercializadora Snacks SAS, Ltda.  
      
  Venezuela   
 
  Compania de Bebidas PepsiCo, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Concentrate Manufacturing (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.  
      
  Singapore   
 
  Confiteria Alegro, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Copella Fruit Juices Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Copper Beech International, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Corina Snacks Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  Corporativo Internacional Mexicano, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Cove Development Corporation  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Dark Green Australia Pty Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Davlyn Realty Corporation  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Defosto Holdings Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  Desarrollo Inmobiliario Gamesa, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Dilexis C.A.  
      
  Argentina   
 
  Distribuidora Savoy Guatemala S.A.  
      
  Guatemala   
 
  Donon Holdings Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  Doritos Australia One Pty Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Doritos Australia Two Pty Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Dorset Properties Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  Doughter Company Wimm-Bill-Dann  
      
  Russia   
 
  Duingras Holdings B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Duo Juice Company  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Duo Juice Company BV  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Duyvis Production B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Egmont Holdings Luxembourg S.a. r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  Elaboradora Argentina de Cereales, S.R.L.  
      
  Argentina   
 
  Encorp Atlantic, Inc.  
      
  Canada   
 
  Enfolg Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Environ of Inverrary, Inc.  
      
  United States, Florida   
 
  Equipos Y Deportes Exclusivos, S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Eridanus Investments S.a.r.L.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  Essentuksky plant of mineral waters on KMV  
      
  Russia   
 
  Euro Juice G.m.b.H. Import and Vertrieb  
      
  Germany   
 
  Fabrica de Productos Alimentocios Rene y Compania SCA  
      
  Guatemala   
 
  Fabrica de Productos Rene LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Fabrica PepsiCo Mexicale, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Far East Bottlers (Hong Kong) Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Farm Produce Proprietary Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Fester Industria Alimenticia Ltda.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  FL Transportation, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  FLI Andean, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  FLI Colombia, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  FLI Snacks Andean GP, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  FLLC PepsiCo Products  
      
  Belarus   
 
  FLRC, Inc.  
      
  United States, California   
 
  Forest Akers Nederland B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Fovarosi Asvanyviz es Uditoipari Zartkoruen  
      
  Hungary   
 
  Mukodo Reszvenytarsasag  

Frito Lay de Guatemala, Sociedad de  
      
  Guatemala   
 
  Responsabilidad Limitada  

Frito Lay Gida Sanayi Ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi  
      
  Turkey   
 
  Frito Lay Sp. Zo.o.  
      
  Poland   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Frito-Lay (Hungary) Trading and  
      
  Hungary   
 
  Manufacturing Limited Liability Company  

Frito-Lay Australia Holdings Pty Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Frito-Lay de Venezuela, C.A.  
      
  Venezuela   
 
  Frito-Lay Dip Company, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Frito-Lay Dominicana S.A.  
      
  Dominican Republic   
 
  Frito-Lay Global Investments B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Frito-Lay Investments B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Frito-Lay Netherlands Holding B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Frito-Lay North America, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Frito-Lay Poland Sp.z.o.o.  
      
  Poland   
 
  Frito-Lay RFLS Holdings, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Frito-Lay Sales, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Frito-Lay Trading Company (Europe) GmbH  
      
  Switzerland   
 
  Frito-Lay Trading Company (Poland) GmbH  
      
  Switzerland   
 
  Frito-Lay Trading Company GmbH  
      
  Switzerland   
 
  Frito-Lay Trinidad Unlimited  
      
  Trinidad and Tobago   
 
  Frito-Lay, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Froooties Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Fruko Mesrubat Sanayi, Ltd. Sti.  
      
  Turkey   
 
  Fundacion Frito Lay de Guatemala  
      
  Guatemala   
 
  Fundacion Gamesa Quaker, A.C.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Fundacion PepsiCo de Argentina  
      
  Argentina   
 
  Fundacion Sabritas, A.C.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Fuzhou Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Gambrinus Investments Limited  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Gamesa LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Gamesa, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Gas Natural de Merida, S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Gatika Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Gatorade Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Gatorade Puerto Rico Company  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  GB Czech LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  GB International, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  GB Russia LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  GB Slovak LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Genadco Advertising Agency, Inc.  
      
  United States, Illinois   
 
  General Bottlers of Hungary, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Geusa S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Giesebrechts Limited  
      
  Canada   
 
  Global PepsiCo Luxembourg Holdings S.a.r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  Globe Transport, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Golden Grain Company  
      
  United States, California   
 
  Grande-W Co. Ltd.  
      
  Russia   
 
  Grayhawk Leasing, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Green Hemlock International, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Greip Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Grupo Frito Lay Compania Limitada  
      
  Guatemala   
 
  Grupo Gamesa, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Grupo Gepp, S.A.P.I. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Grupo Sabritas, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Guangzhou Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Gulkevichskly Maslozavod  
      
  Russia   
 
  Hangzhou Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Harbin Pepsi-Cola Beverages Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Harinera Monterrey, S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Heathland, LP  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Helioscope Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  Hillbrook, Inc.  
      
  United States, Vermont   
 
  Hillwood Bottling, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Holding Company Opolye  
      
  Russia   
 
  Holland Snacks S.A. de C. V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Homefinding Company of Texas  
      
  United States, Texas   
 
  IC Equities, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Icaria Invest S.a.r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  IDJ Bahrain Holding Company W.L.L.  
      
  Bahrain   
 
  Illinois Center Corporation  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Importadora PepsiCo Agroindustrial, S.C.A.  
      
  Venezuela   
 
  Importadora PepsiCo Alimentos, S.C.A.  
      
  Venezuela   
 
  Importadora PepsiCo Frito-Lay, S.C.A.  
      
  Venezuela   
 
  Importadora PepsiCo Quaker, S.C.A.  
      
  Venezuela   
 
  Inmobillaria Interamericana S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Integrated Beverage Services (Bangladesh) Limited  
      
  Bangladesh   
 
  International Bottlers Almaty Ltd.  
      
  Kazakhstan   
 
  International Company for Agro  
      
  Egypt   
 
  Industrial Projects (Beyti) SAE  

International Dairy   Juice (Dubai) Limited  
      
  United Arab Emirates   
 
  International Dairy   Juice Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  International KAS Aktiengesellschaft  
      
  Liechtenstein   
 
  International Refreshments Co. Ltd.  
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
  Inversiones Borneo S.R.L.  
      
  Peru   
 
  Inversiones PFI Chile Limitada  
      
  Chile   
 
  Inversiones Santa Coloma S.A. (Venezuela)  
      
  Venezuela   
 
  IZZE Beverage Co.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Jatabe Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Jinan Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Jordan Ice   Aerated Water Ltd.  
      
  Jordan   
 
  Jugodesalud Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Jungla Mar del Sur  
      
  Costa Rica   
 
  Karinto S.R.L.  
      
  Peru   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

KAS Anorthosis S.C.A.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  KAS, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Kinsale Finance Company  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Kirin-Tropicana, Inc.  
      
  Japan   
 
  KRJ Holdings, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Kunming Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Lacenix Cia. Ltda.  
      
  Ecuador   
 
  Lanzhou Pepsi Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Large Investments S.a.r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  Larragana Holdings 1, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Larragana Holdings 2, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Larragana Holdings 3, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Larragana Holdings 4, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Larragana Holdings 5, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Larragana Holdings 6, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Larragana Holdings 7, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Larragana, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Latin America Holdings Ltd.  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Latin America Snack Foods, ApS  
      
  Denmark   
 
  Latin Foods International, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Latvian Snacks SIA  
      
  Latvia   
 
  Lebedyansky Experimental Cannery OJSC  
      
  Russia   
 
  Lehar Foods Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Linkbay Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  Lithuania Snacks Ltd.  
      
  Lithuania   
 
  LLC  Atamanskoe   
      
  Russia   
 
  LLC  Frito-Lay Manufacturing   
      
  Russia   
 
  LLC  Lebedyansky Holdings   
      
  Russia   
 
  LLC  PepsiCo Foods Ukraine   
      
  Ukraine   
 
  LLC  PepsiCo Holdings   
      
  Russia   
 
  LLC  Sandora   
      
  Ukraine   
 
  Lorencito Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Lotta Good, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Luxembourg SCS Holdings, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Mabel Alimentos S.A.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  Maizoro, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Malpensa - Consultadoria e Servicos, LDA  
      
  Portugal   
 
  Management Holdings (Thailand) Co., Ltd.  
      
  Thailand   
 
  Manurga Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Marbo d.o.o. Laktasi  
      
  Bosnia   
 
  Marbo Product d.o.o. Beograd  
      
  Serbia   
 
  Marbo Produkt d.o.o.  
      
  Croatia   
 
  Matudis - Comercio de Produtos Alimentares, Limitada  
      
  Portugal   
 
  Matutano-Sociedade de Productos  
      
  Portugal   
 
  Alimentares, Unipessoal, Ltd.  

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

MFL Group LLC  
      
  United States, Oregon   
 
  Mid-America Improvement Corporation  
      
  United States, Illinois   
 
  Miglioni Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Mountain Dew Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Mountainview Insurance Company, Inc.  
      
  United States, Vermont   
 
  Nadamas Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Naked Juice Co.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Naked Juice Co. of Glendora, Inc.  
      
  United States, California   
 
  Nanjing Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Natural Products Ventures, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  NCJV, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  New Bern Transport Corporation  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  New Century Beverage Company  
      
  United States, California   
 
  New Generation Beverages Pty Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Niva  
      
  Russia   
 
  Noble Leasing LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  North America Coffee Partnership  
      
  United States   
 
  Nourishco Beverages Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Onbiso Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  P.B.I. Fruit Juice Company BVBA  
      
  Belgium   
 
  P.T. Pepsi-Cola IndoBeverage  
      
  Indonesia   
 
  P-A Barbados Bottling Company, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  P-A Bottlers (Barbados) SRL  
      
  Barbados   
 
  P-Americas, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Panafota Holdings  
      
  Ireland   
 
  Panagarh Marketing Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Papas Chips  
      
  Uruguay   
 
  PAS Beverages Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  PAS International Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  PAS Luxembourg S.A R.L.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  PAS Netherlands B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  PAS Snacks Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Pasteleria La Vienesa, C.A.  
      
  Venezuela   
 
  PBC Co. of Bend  
      
  Oregon   
 
  PBG Beverages International Limited  
      
  Ireland   
 
  PBG Beverages Ireland Limited  
      
  Ireland   
 
  PBG Canada Holdings II, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PBG Canada Holdings, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PBG Cyprus Holdings Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  PBG Horizon, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PBG International Holdings Luxembourg Jayhawk SCS  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  PBG International Holdings Partnership  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  PBG Investment (Luxembourg) S.a r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  PBG Investment Partnership  
      
  Canada   
 
  PBG Midwest Holdings S.a r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

PBG Mohegan Holdings Limited  
      
  Gibraltar   
 
  PBG Soda Can Holdings S.a r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  PCBL, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PCGB (BVI) Limited British  
      
  Virgin Islands   
 
  PCGB Poland Sp. Z.o.o.  
      
  Poland   
 
  PCNA Manufacturing, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PCTI Puerto Rico, Inc.  
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
  PEI e Companhia  
      
  Portugal   
 
  PEI, N.V.  
      
  Curacao   
 
  Pep Trade LLC  
      
  Egypt   
 
  Pepsi B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Pepsi Bend LLC  
      
  United States, Oregon   
 
  Pepsi Beverage (Nanchang) Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Pepsi Bottling Group Cardinals Cooperatie U.A.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Pepsi Bottling Group Global Finance LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi Bottling Group GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Pepsi Bottling Group Hoosiers B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Pepsi Bottling Holdings, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi Bottling Ventures, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi Bugshan Investments Company  
      
  Egypt   
 
  Pepsi Cola Columbia Ltda  
      
  Colombia   
 
  Pepsi Cola Egypt S.A.E.  
      
  Egypt   
 
  Pepsi Cola Servis Dagitim Limited Sirketi  
      
  Turkey   
 
  Pepsi Cola Trading Ireland  
      
  Ireland   
 
  Pepsi Foods Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Pepsi Lipton China Joint Venture  
      
  China   
 
  Pepsi Lipton India Joint Venture  
      
  India   
 
  Pepsi Lipton International Limited  
      
  Ireland   
 
  Pepsi Logistics Company, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi Northwest Beverages LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi Overseas (Investments) Partnership  
      
  Canada   
 
  Pepsi Promotions, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi Solutions, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi South Bottling, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi Srl  
      
  Italy   
 
  Pepsi/Lipton Tea Partnership  
      
  United States   
 
  PepsiAmericas Commissary Services, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiAmericas Nemzetkozi Szolgaltata  
      
  Hungary   
 
  Kirlatalt Felelassegu Tasasag  

PepsiAmericas Sales Services, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiAmericas Vending, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiCo (China) Limited  
      
  China   
 
  PepsiCo (Gilbraltar) Limited  
      
  Gilbraltar   
 
  PepsiCo (Ireland)  
      
  Ireland   
 
  PepsiCo (Malaysia) SDN. BHD.  
      
  Malaysia   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

PepsiCo (Malaysia) SDN. BHD.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiCo Agro, C.A.  
      
  Venezuela   
 
  PepsiCo Alimentos Colombia Ltda.  
      
  Colombia   
 
  PepsiCo Alimentos Ecuador Cia. Ltd.  
      
  Ecuador   
 
  PepsiCo Alimentos Peru, S.R.L.  
      
  Peru   
 
  PepsiCo Alimentos Venezuela, S.R.L.  
      
  Venezuela   
 
  PepsiCo Alimentos Z.F., Ltda.  
      
  Colombia   
 
  PepsiCo Alimentos, S.C.A.  
      
  Venezuela   
 
  PepsiCo Amacoco Bebidas Do Brasil Ltda.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  PepsiCo Antilles Holdings N.V.  
      
  Curacao   
 
  PepsiCo Australia Holdings Pty Ltd.  
      
  Australia   
 
  PepsiCo Australia International  
      
  Australia   
 
  PepsiCo Bebidas Brasil Holding Ltda.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  PepsiCo Beverages (Guangzhou) Limited  
      
  China   
 
  PepsiCo Beverages (Hong Kong) Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  PepsiCo Beverages Bermuda Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  PepsiCo Beverages International Limited  
      
  Nigeria   
 
  PepsiCo Beverages Italia Srl  
      
  Italy   
 
  PepsiCo Beverages Switzerland GmbH  
      
  Switzerland   
 
  PepsiCo Canada (Holdings) Co.  
      
  Canada   
 
  PepsiCo Canada Finance, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiCo Canada ULC  
      
  Canada   
 
  PepsiCo Captive Holdings, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiCo Caribbean, Inc.  
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
  PepsiCo Commercial Secor, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  PepsiCo Consulting Polska Sp. Z.o.o.  
      
  Poland   
 
  PepsiCo CZ s.r.o.  
      
  Czech Republic   
 
  PepsiCo de Argentina S.R.L.  
      
  Argentina   
 
  PepsiCo de Bolivia S.R.L.  
      
  Bolivia   
 
  PepsiCo de Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  PepsiCo Del Paraguay S.R.L.  
      
  Paraguay   
 
  PepsiCo Deutschland GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  PepsiCo do Brazil Holdings Limitada  
      
  Brazil   
 
  PepsiCo do Brazil Ltda.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  PepsiCo Eesti AS  
      
  Estonia   
 
  PepsiCo Euro Bermuda Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  PepsiCo Euro Finance Antilles B.V.  
      
  Curacao   
 
  PepsiCo Euro Finance Antilles N.V.  
      
  Curacao   
 
  PepsiCo Europe Support Center, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  PepsiCo Finance (Antilles A) N.V.  
      
  Curacao   
 
  PepsiCo Finance (Antilles A) N.V.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiCo Finance (Antilles B) N.V.  
      
  Curacao   
 
  PepsiCo Finance (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited  
      
  South Africa   
 
  PepsiCo Finance Europe Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  PepsiCo Financial Shared Services, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

PepsiCo Financiera y Promocion de Empresas, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  PepsiCo Food   Beverage Holdings Hong Kong Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  PepsiCo Foods (China) Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  PepsiCo Foods (Private) Limited  
      
  Pakistan   
 
  PepsiCo Foods and Beverages International Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  PepsiCo Foods Hellas Trading  
      
  Greece   
 
  Industrial   Agricultural S.A.  

PepsiCo Foods Taiwan Co., Ltd.  
      
  Taiwan   
 
  PepsiCo France SNC  
      
  France   
 
  PepsiCo Global Investments B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  PepsiCo Global Investments Holdings Limited  
      
  Ireland   
 
  PepsiCo Global Investments II B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  PepsiCo Global Investments S.a.r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  PepsiCo Global Mobility, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiCo Group  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  PepsiCo Group Finance International B.V.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  PepsiCo Group Holdings International B.V.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  PepsiCo Group Spotswood Holdings S.C.S.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  PepsiCo Gulf International FZE  
      
  United Arab Emirates   
 
  PepsiCo Holbra Alimentos Ltda.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  PepsiCo Holding de Espana Etve, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  PepsiCo Holdings  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  PepsiCo Holdings Hong Kong Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  PepsiCo Holdings Luxembourg S.a. r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  PepsiCo Hong Kong, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiCo India Holdings Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  PepsiCo Internacional Mexico S. de R.L. de C. V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  PepsiCo International Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  PepsiCo International Pte. Ltd.  
      
  Singapore   
 
  PepsiCo International Vietnam Company  
      
  Vietnam   
 
  PepsiCo Investment (China) Ltd.  
      
  China   
 
  PepsiCo Investments (Europe) I B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  PepsiCo Investments Ltd.  
      
  Mauritius   
 
  PepsiCo Investments Luxembourg S.a. r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  PepsiCo Ireland Food   Beverages  
      
  Ireland   
 
  PepsiCo IVI S.A.  
      
  Greece   
 
  PepsiCo Japan Co., Ltd.  
      
  Japan   
 
  PepsiCo Light B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  PepsiCo Management Services SASU  
      
  France   
 
  PepsiCo Manufacturing, A.I.E.  
      
  Spain   
 
  PepsiCo Maurituis Holdings, Inc.  
      
  Mauritius   
 
  PepsiCo Max B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  PepsiCo Mexico R D Biscuits, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  PepsiCo Mexico R D Savory, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  PepsiCo Middle East Investments  
      
  Netherlands   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

PepsiCo Nederland B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  PepsiCo New Zealand Holdings  
      
  New Zealand   
 
  PepsiCo Nordic Finland OY  
      
  Finland   
 
  PepsiCo Nordic Norway A/S  
      
  Norway   
 
  PepsiCo NZ Finance Antillies B.V.  
      
  Curacao   
 
  PepsiCo One B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  PepsiCo Overseas Corporation  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiCo Pacific Trading Company, Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  PepsiCo Panimex Inc.  
      
  Mauritius   
 
  PepsiCo Pension Management Services, Ltd.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiCo Products B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  PepsiCo Property Management Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  PepsiCo Puerto Rico, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiCo Russia (Bermuda) Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  PepsiCo Sales, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiCo Services Asia Ltd.  
      
  Thailand   
 
  PepsiCo Services International Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiCo Sterling Finance Antilles B.V.  
      
  Curacao   
 
  PepsiCo Trading (Guangzhou) Company  
      
  China   
 
  PepsiCo Twist B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  PepsiCo UK Pension Plan Trustee Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  PepsiCo UK Pension Trust Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  PepsiCo Ventas Andalucia, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  PepsiCo Wave Holdings LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PepsiCo World Trading Company, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola (Bahamas) Bottling Company Limited  
      
  Bahamas   
 
  Pepsi-Cola (Bermuda) Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Pepsi-Cola (Thai) Trading Company Limited  
      
  Thailand   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Advertising and Marketing, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Beverage (Guilin) Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Bottlers Holding, C.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Bottling Company of  
      
  United States, Florida   
 
  Ft. Lauderdale-Palm Beach, LLC  

Pepsi-Cola Bottling Company of St. Louis, Inc.  
      
  United States, Missouri   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Bottling Finance B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Bottling Global B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Bottling of Roseburg, An Oregon  
      
  United States, Oregon   
 
  Limited Partnership  

Pepsi-Cola Company  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Consultores Ltda.  
      
  China   
 
  Pepsi-Cola de Honduras S.R.L.  
      
  Honduras   
 
  Pepsi-Cola East Africa Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Ecuador Cia. Ltda.  
      
  Ecuador   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Engarrafadora Ltda.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Far East Trade Development Co., Inc.  
      
  Philippines   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Pepsi-Cola Finance, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola General Bottlers Poland SP, z.o.o.  
      
  Poland   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Industrial Da Amazonia Ltda.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Interamericana de Guatemala S.A.  
      
  Guatemala   
 
  Pepsi-Cola International (Cyprus) Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  Pepsi-Cola International (PVT) Limited  
      
  Pakistan   
 
  Pepsi-Cola International Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Pepsi-Cola International Limited (U.S.A.)  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola International, Cork  
      
  Ireland   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Kft. Hungary  
      
  Hungary   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Korea, Co., Limited  
      
  Korea   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Maghreb  
      
  Morocco   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Mamulleri Limited Sirketi  
      
  Turkey   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Management and Administrative Services, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Manufacturing (Ireland)  
      
  Ireland   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Manufacturing (Mediterranean) Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Manufacturing Company of Uruguay S.R.L.  
      
  Uruguay   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Manufacturing International, Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Marketing Corp. of P.R. Inc.  
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Mediterranean Ltd.  
      
  United States, Wyoming   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc.  
      
  United States, New Jersey   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Mexicana Holdings LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Mexicana, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Pepsi-Cola National Marketing, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola of Corvallis, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Operating Company of  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Chesapeake and Indianapolis  

Pepsi-Cola Panamericana SCR Limitada  
      
  Peru   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Panamericana, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Panamericana, S.R.L.  
      
  Venezuela   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Products Philippines, Inc.  
      
  Philippines   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Sales and Distribution, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Sales, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Servis ve Dagitim Ltd. Sti.  
      
  Turkey   
 
  Pepsi-Cola SR s.r.o.  
      
  Slovakia   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Technical Operations, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Pepsi-Cola U.K. Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Ukranine LLC  
      
  Ukraine   
 
  Pepsi-Cola Venezuela, C.A.  
      
  Venezuela   
 
  PepsiCo-Strauss Fresh Dip   Spreads International GmbH  
      
  Switzerland   
 
  Pete   Johnny Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Pet-Iberia, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Pine International Limited  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Pine International, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Pinstripe Leasing, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PISSA Colombia Ltda.  
      
  Colombia   
 
  Planters U.K. Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  PlayCo, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Plemzavod Za Mir I Trude OJSC  
      
  Romania   
 
  PR Beverages Bermuda Holding Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  PR Beverages Cyprus (Russia) Holding Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  PR Beverages Cyprus Holding Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  PR Beverages Limited  
      
  Ireland   
 
  PRB Luxembourg International S.a r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  PRB Luxembourg S.a r.l.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  Prestwick, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Prev PepsiCo Sociedade Previdenciaria  
      
  Brazil   
 
  Productos Industrializados Saltillo, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Productos S.A.S. C.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Productos Victoria S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Products SAS Management B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Promotora De Empresas, S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  PROPP Co. Ltd.  
      
  Romania   
 
  PRS, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  PSE Logistica, S.R.L.  
      
  Argentina   
 
  PT Indofood FritoLay Makmur  
      
  Indonesia   
 
  PT Quaker Indonesia  
      
  Indonesia   
 
  Punch N.V.  
      
  Curacao   
 
  Punica Getranke GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  QBU Marketing Services, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  QBU Trading Company, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  QFL OHQ Sdn. Bhd.  
      
  Malaysia   
 
  QTG Development, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  QTG Services, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  QuadGat Beverage Company (Europe) Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  Quadrant Amroq Beverages S.A.  
      
  Moldova   
 
  Quadrant Bulgaria Beverages EOOD  
      
  Bulgaria   
 
  Quadrant European Beverages (Bulgaria) Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  Quadrant-Amroq Beverages S.R.L.  
      
  Romania   
 
  Quadrant-Amroq Bottling Company (Europe) Ltd.  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  Quadrant-Amroq Bottling Company Limited  
      
  British Virgin Islands   
 
  Quaker Beverages Italia S.p.A  
      
  Italy   
 
  Quaker Developments B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Quaker European Beverages, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Quaker European Investments B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Quaker Foods  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Quaker Global Investments B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Quaker Holdings (UK) Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Quaker Manufacturing, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Quaker Mexico Holdings, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Quaker Oats Asia, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Quaker Oats Australia Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Quaker Oats B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Quaker Oats Capital Corporation  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Quaker Oats Europe LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Quaker Oats Europe, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Quaker Oats Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Quaker Peru S.R.L.  
      
  Peru   
 
  Quaker Sales   Distribution, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Quaker Trading Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Ramenskoe Moloko Co. Ltd.  
      
  Russia   
 
  Rare Fare Foods, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Rasines Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Rebujito Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Rolling Frito-Lay Sales, LP  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Ronkas Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  S   T of Mississippi, Inc.  
      
  United States, Mississippi   
 
  S.C. Quadrant Amroq Beverages S.r.L.  
      
  Romania   
 
  S.C. Star Foods E.M. S.R.L.  
      
  Romania   
 
  Sabra Dipping Company, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Sabritas de Costa Rica, S. de R.L.  
      
  Costa Rica   
 
  Sabritas Snacks America Latina de Nicaragua y Cia, Ltda  
      
  Nicaragua   
 
  Sabritas y Compania, SCA  
      
  El Salvador   
 
  Sabritas, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Sabritas, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Sakata Rice Snacks Australia Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Sandora Holdings B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Sanser Administracao E Partipacoes Ltda.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  Saudi Snack Foods Company Limited  
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
  Seepoint Holdings Ltd.  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  Senrab  
      
  Ireland   
 
  Serenitatis Limited  
      
  Gibraltar   
 
  Serm Suk Public Company Limited  
      
  Thailand   
 
  Servicios Calificados, S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Servicios Chipiga, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Servicios GFLG y Compania Limitada  
      
  Guatemala   
 
  Servicios Harinera Monterrey, S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Servi-Facil, S.A.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Seven-Up Asia, Inc.  
      
  United States, Missouri   
 
  Seven-Up Europe Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Seven-Up Great Britain, Inc.  
      
  United States, Missouri   
 
  Seven-Up Light B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Seven-Up Nederland B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Shanghai PepsiCo Snacks Company Limited  
      
  China   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

Shanghai Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Sharepower, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Shenyang Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Shenzhen Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Shoebill, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  SIH International LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Simba (Proprietary) Limited  
      
  South Africa   
 
  Simba Quix Swazilan (Pty) Limited  
      
  South Africa   
 
  Smartfoods, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Smiths Crisps Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Snack Food Investments GmbH  
      
  Switzerland   
 
  Snack Food Investments II GmbH  
      
  Switzerland   
 
  Snack Food Investments Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Snack Food-Beverage Asia Products Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Snack Ventures Europe SCA  
      
  Belgium   
 
  Snacks America Latina S.R.L.  
      
  Peru   
 
  Snacks Guatemala, Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  SoBe Operating Corp., Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Sobol Aqua OJSC  
      
  Russia   
 
  Societe Monderne Libanaise pour Le Commerce S.A.L.  
      
  Lebanon   
 
  South Beach Beverage Company, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  South Properties, Inc.  
      
  United States, Illinois   
 
  Special Edition Beverages Limited  
      
  New Zealand   
 
  Sportmex Internacional, S.A. De C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Spruce Limited  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Stacy s Pita Chip Company, Incorporated  
      
  United States, Massachusetts   
 
  Star Foods Bulgaria EOOD  
      
  Bulgaria   
 
  Stepplan Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Stokely-Van Camp, Inc.  
      
  United States, Indiana   
 
  Strategic Beverages (Thailand) Co. Ltd.  
      
  Thailand   
 
  Strauss Frito Lay Ltd.  
      
  Israel   
 
  SVC Logistics, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  SVC Manufacturing, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  SVE Russia Holdings GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Tanglewood Finance S.a. r.L.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  Tastes of Adventures Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Tasty Foods S.A.  
      
  Greece   
 
  Teeba for Developed Food   Processing Company  
      
  Jordan   
 
  TFL Holdings, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  The Concentrate Manufacturing Company of Ireland  
      
  Ireland   
 
  The Gatorade Company  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  The Gatorade Company of Australia Pty Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  The Original Pretzel Company Pty Ltd.  
      
  Australia   
 
  The Pepsi Bottling Group (Canada) ULC  
      
  Canada   
 
  The Pepsi Bottling Group Foundation, Inc.  
      
  United States, New York   

NAME OF ENTITY    
      
     JURISDICTION     

The Quaker Oats Company  
      
  United States, New Jersey   
 
  The Smiths Snackfood Company Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Tianjin Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Tobago Snack Holdings, LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Tropicana Alvalle S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Tropicana Beverages Greater China Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Tropicana Beverages Ltd.  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Tropicana Europe  
      
  Belgium   
 
  Tropicana Looza Benelux BVBA  
      
  Belgium   
 
  Tropicana Manufacturing Company, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Tropicana Products Sales, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Tropicana Products, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Tropicana Services, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Tropicana Transportation Corp.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Tropicana United Kingdom Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Tuymazinskiy Molokozavod OJSC  
      
  Russia   
 
  Twisties Australia One Pty Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Twisties Australia Two Pty Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  United Foods Companies Restaurantes S.A.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  Veurne Snackfoods BVBA  
      
  Belgium   
 
  Vitamin Brands Ltd.  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Vitarom Impex s.r.l.  
      
  Romania   
 
  Walkers Crisps Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Walkers Group Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Walkers Snack Foods Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Walkers Snack Services Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Walkers Snacks (Distribution) Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Walkers Snacks Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Wave Holding LLC  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Wesellsoda Inversiones, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Whitman Corporation  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Whitman Finance, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Whitman Insurance Co., Inc.  
      
  United States, Vermont   
 
  Whitman Leasing, Inc.  
      
  United States, Delaware   
 
  Willamette Beverage Co.  
      
  United States, Oregon   
 
  Wimm-Bill-Dann Beverages OJSC  
      
  Russia   
 
  Wimm-Bill-Dann Brands Co. Ltd.  
      
  Russia   
 
  Wimm-Bill-Dann Finance Co. Ltd.  
      
  Russia   
 
  Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC  
      
  Russia   
 
  Wimm-Bill-Dann Netherlands B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Wimm-Bill-Dann OJSC  
      
  Russia   
 
  Wimm-Bill-Dann Ukraine  
      
  Ukraine   
 
  Wotsits Brands Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Wuhan Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Xi an Pepsi-Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Zhanjiang Pepsi Cola Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   
 
  Zhengzhou Pepsi Beverage Company Limited  
      
  China   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 d269581dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

Consent of KPMG LLP 

EXHIBIT 23        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       Board of Directors and
Shareholders      PepsiCo, Inc.:      We consent to incorporation by reference in the registration statements and Forms listed below of PepsiCo, Inc. and subsidiaries ( PepsiCo, Inc. ) of our report dated February 27, 2012,
with respect to the Consolidated Balance Sheets of PepsiCo, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Cash Flows and Equity for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2011, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, which report appears in the December 31, 2011 annual report on Form 10-K of PepsiCo, Inc.   
  Our report dated February 27, 2012, on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, contains
an explanatory paragraph that states the scope of management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting excluded the internal control over financial reporting of Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC and its subsidiaries
( WBD ), which the Company acquired in February 2011. WBD represented 9% of the Company s consolidated total assets and 4% of the Company s consolidated net revenues as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our audit of
internal control over financial reporting of PepsiCo, Inc. also excluded an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of WBD.   
    Description, Registration Statement Number         Form S-3    

Form S-8    

-  
    Retirement Savings and Investment Plan for Union Employees of Tropicana Products, Inc. and Affiliates and the Retirement Savings and Investment Plan
for Union Employees of Tropicana Products, Inc. and Affiliates (Teamster Local Union #173), 333-65992      

/s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York   
  February 27, 2012   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 10
 d269581dex24.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Power of Attorney 

EXHIBIT 24        POWER OF ATTORNEY        KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS , that PepsiCo, Inc.
( PepsiCo ) and each other undersigned, an officer or director, or both, of PepsiCo, do hereby appoint Maura Abeln Smith and Cynthia A. Nastanski, and each of them severally, its, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact to execute on
behalf of PepsiCo and the undersigned the following documents and any and all amendments thereto (including post-effective amendments) deemed necessary or appropriate by either such attorney-in-fact:     

(i)  
  Automatic Shelf Registration Statement No. 333-133735 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock, Debt Securities, Warrants and Units, the Automatic
Shelf Registration Statement No. 333-154314 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock, Debt Securities, Guarantees of Debt Securities, Warrants and Units and the Automatic Shelf Registration Statement No. 333-177307 relating
to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock, Debt Securities, Warrants and Units;         

(vii)  
  Registration Statements No. 33-22970 and 333-110030 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under PepsiCo s Director Stock Plan and resales of
such shares by Directors of PepsiCo;         

(viii)  
  Registration Statement No. 333-162261 relating to the issuance of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock to stockholders of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. pursuant to the
Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of August 3, 2009, as may be amended from time to time, among PepsiCo, PBG and Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc. ( Metro      

(ix)  
  Registration Statement No. 333-162260 relating to the issuance of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock to stockholders of PAS pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of
Merger dated as of August 3, 2009, as may be amended from time to time, among PepsiCo, PAS and Metro;         

(x)  
  Schedule 13E-3 relating to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of August 3, 2009, as may be amended from time to time, among PepsiCo, PBG and Metro;

(xi)  
  Schedule 13E-3 relating to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of August 3, 2009, as may be amended from time to time, among PepsiCo, PAS and Metro;

(xii)  
  Registration Statement No. 333-87526 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under The PepsiCo Share Award Plan;     

(xiv)  
  Registration Statement No. 333-165107 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under the PBG 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan, the PBG 2002 Long Term
Incentive Plan, the PBG Long Term Incentive Plan, The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. 1999 Long Term Incentive Plan, the PBG Directors  Stock Plan, the PBG Stock Incentive Plan and the PepsiAmericas, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan;

(xvi)  
  Registration Statement No. 333-165177 relating to the offer and sale of PepsiCo Common Stock under the PBG 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan, the PBG 2002 Long Term
Incentive Plan, the PBG Long Term Incentive Plan, The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. 1999 Long Term Incentive Plan and the PBG Stock Incentive Plan; and         

(xvii)  
  all other applications, reports, registrations, information, documents and instruments filed or required to be filed by PepsiCo with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the  SEC ), including, but not limited to the Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K or any amendment or supplement thereto, any stock exchanges or any governmental official or
agency in connection with the listing, registration or approval of PepsiCo Common Stock, PepsiCo debt securities or warrants, other securities or PepsiCo guarantees of its subsidiaries  or third party debt securities or warrants, or the offer
and sale thereof, or in order to meet PepsiCo s reporting requirements to such entities or persons;        and to file the same
with the SEC, any stock exchanges or any governmental official or agency, with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, and each of such attorneys-in-fact shall have the power to act hereunder with or without the other.
      FURTHER, KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS , that each of the undersigned that is an officer or director, or both, of PepsiCo, also hereby
constitutes and appoints each of Maura Abeln Smith and Cynthia A. Nastanski, and each of them severally, the undersigned s true and lawful attorney-in-fact to:   

1)  
  execute for and on behalf of the undersigned, in the undersigned s capacity as a director or officer, or both, of PepsiCo, Forms 3, 4 and 5 in accordance with
Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), and the rules thereunder;         

2)  
  do and perform any and all acts for and on behalf of the undersigned which may be necessary or desirable to complete and execute any such Form 3, 4 or 5 and timely file
such form with the SEC and any stock exchange or similar authority; and         

3)  
  take any other action of any type whatsoever in connection with the foregoing which, in the opinion of such attorney-in-fact, may be of benefit to, in the best interest
of, or legally required by, the undersigned, it being understood that the documents executed by such attorney-in-fact on behalf of the undersigned pursuant to this Power of Attorney shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions
as such attorney-in-fact may approve in such attorney-in-fact s discretion.        The undersigned acknowledges that the
foregoing attorneys-in-fact, in serving in such capacity at the request of the undersigned, are not assuming, nor is PepsiCo assuming, any of the undersigned s responsibilities to comply with Section 16 of the Exchange Act.   
  This Power of Attorney, insofar as it relates to the undersigned s obligations to file Forms 3, 4 and 5, shall remain in full force and effect until
the undersigned is no longer required to file Forms 3, 4 and 5 with respect to the undersigned s holdings of and transactions in securities issued by PepsiCo, unless earlier revoked by the undersigned in a signed writing delivered to the
foregoing attorneys-in-fact; provided that any termination or revocation of this Power of Attorney, insofar as it relates to the undersigned s obligations to file Forms 3, 4 and 5, shall not affect the delegations of authority by the
undersigned pursuant to clauses (i) through (xvii) above.      *     *     *
     Each of the undersigned hereby grants to each such attorney-in-fact full power and authority to do and perform any and every act and thing
whatsoever requisite, necessary, or proper to be done in the exercise of any of the rights and powers herein granted, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do if personally present, with full power of substitution or
revocation, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such attorney-in-fact, or such attorney-in-fact s substitute or substitutes, shall lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue of this Power of Attorney and the rights and powers herein
granted.      This Power of Attorney may be executed in counterparts and all such duly executed counterparts shall together constitute the same
instrument. This Power of Attorney shall not revoke any powers of attorney previously executed by the undersigned. This Power of Attorney shall not be revoked by any subsequent power of attorney that the undersigned may execute, unless such
subsequent power of attorney specifically provides that it revokes this Power of Attorney by referring to the date of the undersigned s execution of this Power of Attorney.   
   [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , each of the undersigned has executed this instrument on the date indicated
opposite its, his or her name.       PEPSICO, INC.        By:        

</EX-24>

<EX-31>
 11
 d269581dex31.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF OUR CEO AND OUR CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification of our CEO and our CFO pursuant to Section 302 

EXHIBIT 31        CERTIFICATION       I,  Indra K. Nooyi,  certify that:   

1.  
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of PepsiCo, Inc.;      

2.  
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      

3.  
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      

a)  
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      

b)  
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c)  
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

d)  
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      

a)  
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)  
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting.          

Date: February 27, 2012   

/s/ Indra K. Nooyi    

Indra K. Nooyi    

Chairman of the Board of Directors    

and Chief Executive Officer    

CERTIFICATION    
  I,  Hugh F. Johnston,  certify that:       

1.  
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of PepsiCo, Inc.;      

2.  
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      

3.  
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      

a)  
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      

b)  
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c)  
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

d)  
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      

a)  
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)  
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting.          

Date: February 27, 2012   

/s/ Hugh F. Johnston    

Hugh F. Johnston    

Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 12
 d269581dex32.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF OUR CEO AND OUR CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification of our CEO and our CFO pursuant to Section 906 

EXHIBIT 32       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO      SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
     In connection with the Annual Report of PepsiCo, Inc. (the  Corporation ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Indra K. Nooyi, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, certify to my knowledge,
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. Section 1350), that:       

1.  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

2.  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Corporation.          

Date: February 27, 2012   
     
    /s/ Indra K. Nooyi    

Indra K. Nooyi    

Chairman of the Board of Directors    

and Chief Executive Officer    

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002      In connection with the Annual Report of PepsiCo, Inc. (the  Corporation ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Hugh F. Johnston, Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation, certify to my knowledge, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. Section 1350), that:   

1.  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

2.  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Corporation.          

Date: February 27, 2012   
     
    /s/ Hugh F. Johnston    

Hugh F. Johnston    

Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 13
 pep-20111231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 14
 pep-20111231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 15
 pep-20111231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 16
 pep-20111231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 17
 pep-20111231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 18
 pep-20111231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

