<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100310_10-K_edgar_data_1364742_0001193125-10-052764_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>8924514</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>745799</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>297461</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2443402</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>2116743</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2822536</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>176</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-10-052764.hdr.sgml : 20100310
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100310172557
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-10-052764
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100310
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100310

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BlackRock Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001364742
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				320174431
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0226

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-33099
		FILM NUMBER:		10671535

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		55 EAST 52ND STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10055
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-810-5300

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		55 EAST 52ND STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10055

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BlackRock, Inc.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20060929

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	New BlackRock, Inc.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20060601

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 I3lowbuzg3Cba7z+CyQUALiWGKG0nF/CiHQFPX7FYXfrx0vQznaNe7aO07ma9suC
 KM3Pl8n3mQaRCqKui5+Kuw==

 0001193125-10-052764.txt : 20100310

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, DC 20549                  FORM 10-K  
               (Mark One)   
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009        Or
       
     For the transition period from              to             .
       Commission File No. 001-33099              

BlackRock, Inc.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)                  

Delaware   
     
   32-0174431    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of       incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)          55 East 52nd Street, New York, NY
10055        (Address of principal executive offices)        (212) 810-5300        (Registrant s telephone number,
including area code)                  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
   Common Stock, $.01 par value   
     
   New York Stock Exchange         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:        None                 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known, seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes    
     No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is
not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one)       

Large accelerated filer  

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated filer  
     
       (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
      
  Smaller reporting company  
     
            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes         No           The
aggregate market value of the voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2009 was approximately $3.6 billion. There is no non-voting common stock of the registrant outstanding.      As of February 28, 2010, there were 63,076,131 shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding.      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE      The following documents are incorporated by reference herein:      Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement of BlackRock, Inc. to be
filed pursuant to Regulation 14A of the general rules and regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 13, 2010 ( Proxy Statement ) are incorporated
by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.               

Table of Contents  

      BlackRock, Inc.        Index to Form 10-K        TABLE OF CONTENTS        

PART I   

Item 1   
      
     Business    
      
  1   
 
    Item 1A   
      
     Risk Factors    
      
  26   
 
    Item 1B   
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  35   
 
    Item 2   
      
     Properties    
      
  35   
 
    Item 3   
      
     Legal Proceedings    
      
  35   
 
    Item 4   
      
     Reserved    
      
  35   

PART II   

Item 5   
      
     Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

36   
 
    Item 6   
      
     Selected Financial Data    
      
  38   
 
    Item 7   
      
     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  40   
 
    Item 7A   
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  99   
 
    Item 8   
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  101   
 
    Item 9   
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  101   
 
    Item 9A   
      
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  101   
 
    Item 9B   
      
     Other Information    
      
  104   

PART III   

Item 10   
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  104   
 
    Item 11   
      
     Executive Compensation    
      
  104   
 
    Item 12   
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters    
      
  104   
 
    Item 13   
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  104   
 
    Item 14   
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  104   

PART IV   

Item 15   
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  105   

Signatures    
      
  111    

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS           Overview
       BlackRock, Inc. ( BlackRock  or the  Company ) is the largest publicly traded investment
management firm with $3.346 trillion of assets under management ( AUM ) at December 31, 2009. BlackRock focuses exclusively on investment management and risk management; we do not engage in proprietary trading or other activities that
could conflict with the interests of our clients. Our business is global   we invest in capital markets throughout the world, we have employees in 24 countries and we serve institutional and retail investors in more than 100 countries. We offer
a broad array of equity, fixed income, multi-asset class, alternative investment and cash management products, as well as our  BlackRock Solutions       investment systems, risk management and advisory services. We offer our investment products directly and through intermediaries in a variety of vehicles, including
open-end and closed-end mutual funds,  iShares       exchange-traded funds   1    ( ETFs ), collective investment trusts and separate
accounts. Our clients include taxable, tax-exempt and official institutions, high net worth individuals and retail investors.      On
December 1, 2009, BlackRock acquired Barclays Global Investors ( BGI ) from Barclays Bank PLC ( Barclays ), referred to as the  BGI Transaction , adding substantial investment and risk management capabilities and
more than 3,500 new colleagues to the combined organization. BGI has long been recognized for product innovation in indexed and scientific investing, including pioneering  iShares , the industry s leading ETF platform, sophisticated
retirement solutions and liability-driven investment strategies. These strengths complement BlackRock s active fundamental portfolio management capabilities, global mutual fund platform, customized solutions, risk management and advisory
services. Together, the combined firm is strongly distinguished by its scale, breadth of capabilities and depth of intellectual capital focused on helping clients address their investment challenges and achieve their financial objectives. Upon
closing of the BGI Transaction, we commenced operations as a unified firm with the integration of corporate systems largely completed and implementation of our operating platform well underway. Substantial operating and cultural integration work is
expected to continue over the course of the next two years.      BlackRock is an independent, publicly traded company, with no single majority
stockholder and a majority of independent directors. At December 31, 2009, Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. ( Merrill Lynch ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bank of America Corporation, owned approximately 3.7% of BlackRock s
voting common stock outstanding and held approximately 34.2% of the Company s capital stock. The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ( PNC ) owned approximately 35.2% of BlackRock s voting common stock outstanding and held
approximately 24.5% of the Company s capital stock. Barclays owned approximately 4.8% of BlackRock s voting common stock outstanding and held approximately 19.8% of the Company s capital stock.      At December 31, 2009, BlackRock managed $3.346 trillion of AUM, a 156%, or $2.039 trillion, increase relative to BlackRock s reported AUM at
December 31, 2008. The majority of the increase, $1.850 trillion, was due to the BGI Transaction, including substantial net new business and market appreciation recorded by BGI during the first eleven months of 2009. The remaining $189 billion
of growth represented net new business, investment performance, market appreciation and favorable foreign exchange movements.           

1     
     iShares         is a registered trademark of BlackRock Institutional Trust Company, N.A.            
   1   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS           Overview
        Reported AUM   (1)       (2)            Year ended December 31,        
        NM - Not Meaningful       

(1)   
        Based on the
actual timing of closing of acquisitions and divestitures during the periods shown.      

(2)   
        Data reflects the
reclassification of AUM into the current period presentation.      

(3)   
        Compound annual
growth rate ( CAGR )         Growth in reported AUM over the past five years includes acquired AUM of approximately $2.5
trillion from the acquisitions of BGI in 2009, the fund of funds business of Quellos Group, LLC ( Quellos ) in 2007, Merrill Lynch Investment Managers ( MLIM ) in 2006, and SSRM Holdings, Inc. in 2005.         
   2   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS           Overview
(continued)        On a pro forma combined basis (as though the BGI Transaction had closed on December 31, 2008), AUM increased 23% or
$634.5 billion from $2.712 trillion at year-end 2008. Net new business during the year totaled $159.8 billion, including $219.2 billion of net inflows in long-dated and advisory AUM and $59.4 billion of outflows in cash management products. In
addition, a strong recovery in global credit and equity markets and favorable foreign exchange rate movements contributed $472.3 billion to AUM growth in 2009. At year-end, 85% of AUM was in long-dated strategies (46% in equities, 32% in fixed
income, 4% in multi-asset class and 3% in alternative investments), 10% was in cash management products and 5% was in advisory or long-term liquidation portfolios. BlackRock has realized a 58% compound annual growth rate in AUM over the past five
years through a combination of acquisitions, new business, investment performance, market appreciation and foreign exchange movements.       Component Changes in AUM        

(1)       
      Long-dated includes equities, fixed income, multi-asset class and alternatives.

(2)       
      Includes acquisition adjustments to conform to current period combined AUM policy.   

(3)       
      Market/FX represents market appreciation (depreciation) and the impact of converting non-U.S.
dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.           AUM data throughout the remainder of this
section reflects the reclassification of the data into the current period presentation.      The discussion of pro forma combined AUM above and
throughout the remainder of this section is provided as supplemental information to provide greater transparency regarding client activity and business trends throughout 2009.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Overview (continued)        BlackRock operates in a global marketplace characterized by a high degree of market volatility
and economic uncertainty, factors that can significantly affect earnings and stockholder returns in any given period. Management seeks to achieve attractive returns for stockholders over time by, among other things, capitalizing on the following
factors:       

The Company s diversified product offerings, which enhance its ability to offer a variety of traditional and alternative investment products
across the risk spectrum and to tailor single- and multi- asset class investment solutions to address specific client needs;          

the Company s longstanding commitment to risk management and the continued development of, and increased interest in,  BlackRock Solutions 
products and services;          

the Company s global presence, with approximately 40% of employees outside the United States supporting local investment capabilities and serving
clients of which approximately 39% of total AUM was managed for clients domiciled outside the United States and Canada; and          

the growing recognition of the BlackRock brand, the strength of the Company s culture and the depth and breadth of its intellectual capital.
        The Company s ability to increase revenue, earnings and stockholder value over time is predicated on its ability to
generate new business in investment management and  BlackRock Solutions  products and services. New business efforts are dependent on BlackRock s ability to achieve clients  investment objectives in a manner consistent with their risk
preferences and to deliver excellent client service. All of these efforts require the commitment and contributions of BlackRock employees. Accordingly, the ability to attract and retain talented professionals is critical to the Company s
long-term success.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Overview (continued)        Selected financial results for the last six years are shown below:       

1         
        Prior year data
reflects certain reclassifications to conform to the current year presentation.      

2   
        See reconciliation
to GAAP measures in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Overview.      

3     
    Excludes net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (redeemable and nonredeemable) related to investment and non-investment
activities.         See additional information in Item 6, Selected Financial Data.      BlackRock reports its financial results using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP  however,
management believes that evaluating the Company s ongoing operating results may be enhanced if investors have additional non-GAAP basis financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and, for the
reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock s financial performance over time. BlackRock s management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial
measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Certain prior year non-GAAP data has been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.         
   5   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Overview (continued)         Operating Income, as Adjusted:       GAAP reported operating income includes certain significant items, the after-tax impact of which management considers non-recurring or transactions that
ultimately will not impact BlackRock s book value and, therefore, are excluded in calculating operating income, as adjusted.      Operating
income, as adjusted (a non-GAAP measure), excludes certain expenses incurred related to the integration of the SSR, MLIM, Quellos and BGI Transactions in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2009, respectively, transaction costs, which include advisory fees, legal
fees and consulting expenses related to the BGI Transaction, a 2007 termination fee for closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements with Merrill Lynch, 2008 and 2009 restructuring charges and compensation expense associated with
appreciation / (depreciation) on assets related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans. These expenses have been excluded from operating income, as adjusted, because they have been deemed non-recurring by management and to help enhance the
comparability of this information to prior periods.      The portion of compensation expense associated with certain of BlackRock s long-term
incentive plan ( LTIP ) awards that will be funded through distributions to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and a Merrill Lynch cash compensation contribution, a portion of which has been received, have been excluded
because, exclusive of the impact related to the exercise of LTIP participants  put options, primarily in the three months ended March 31, 2007, these charges do not impact BlackRock s book value. A detailed discussion of the LTIP is
included in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.      Compensation expense associated
with appreciation (depreciation) on assets related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans has been excluded as returns on investments set aside for these plans, which substantially offset this expense, are reported in non-operating income
(expense).      Management believes that operating income exclusive of these costs is more representative of the operating performance for the
respective periods.       Operating Margin, as Adjusted:       Operating income used for measuring operating margin, as adjusted, is equal to operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Management believes that
excluding such costs and commissions is useful because these costs can fluctuate considerably and revenues associated with the expenditure of these costs will not fully impact the Company s results until future periods.      Operating margin, as adjusted, allows the Company to compare performance from period-to-period by adjusting for items that may not recur, recur infrequently
or may fluctuate based on market movements, such as restructuring charges, transaction/integration costs, closed-end fund launch costs and fluctuations in deferred compensation expense based on mark-to-market movements in investments held to fund
certain compensation plans. The Company also uses operating margin, as adjusted, to monitor corporate performance and efficiency and as a benchmark to compare its performance to other companies. Management reviews both the GAAP and non-GAAP
financial measures.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Overview (continued)         Operating Margin, as Adjusted (continued):       Revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, excludes distribution and servicing costs paid to related parties and to other third parties. Management
believes that excluding such costs is useful to BlackRock because it creates consistency in the treatment for certain contracts for similar services, which due to the terms of the contracts, are accounted under GAAP on a net basis within investment
advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue. Amortization of deferred mutual fund sales commissions is excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because such costs, over time, offset distribution fee
revenue earned by the Company. Reimbursable property management compensation represented compensation and benefits paid to personnel of Metric Property Management, Inc. ( Metric ), a subsidiary of BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc.
( Realty ). Prior to the transfer in 2008 to a third party, these employees were retained on Metric s payroll when certain properties were acquired by Realty s clients. The related compensation and benefits were fully reimbursed
by Realty s clients and have been excluded from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, because they did not bear an economic cost to BlackRock. For each of these items, BlackRock excludes from revenue used for operating margin, as
adjusted, the costs related to each of these items as a proxy for such offsetting revenues.       Non-Operating Income
(Expense), Less Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Non-controlling Interests, as Adjusted:       Non-operating income (expense), less net income
(loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted, equals non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis, less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, GAAP basis, adjusted for compensation expense associated with
depreciation or appreciation on assets related to certain deferred compensation plans. The compensation expense offset is recorded in operating income. This compensation expense has been included in non-operating income (expense), less net income
(loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted, to offset returns on investments set aside for these plans, which are reported in non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis.      Management believes that non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted, provides for
comparability of this information to prior periods and is an effective measure for reviewing BlackRock s non-operating contribution to its consolidated results. As compensation expense associated with depreciation or appreciation on assets
related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans, which is included in operating income, offsets the gain/(loss) on the investments set aside for these plans, management believes that non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss)
attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted, provides a useful measure, for both management and investors, of BlackRock s non-operating results that impact book value.       Net Income Attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as Adjusted:       GAAP reported net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. and GAAP diluted earnings per common share include certain significant items, the after-tax impact of which management considers non-recurring or
transactions that ultimately will not impact BlackRock s book value and, therefore, are excluded in calculating net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted.      Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, and diluted earnings per common share, as adjusted (non-GAAP measures), exclude the after-tax impact of the 2008 and 2009 restructuring charges,
the 2007 termination of closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements with Merrill Lynch, LTIP expense to be funded by PNC and by a Merrill Lynch cash compensation contribution, a portion of which has been received, the SSR, MLIM,
Quellos and BGI integration costs, BGI transaction costs and the effect on deferred income tax expense attributable to changes in corporate income tax rates as a result of enacted legislation.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Overview (continued)        See Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, for a detailed reconciliation of GAAP reported operating income, non-operating income (expense) less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. and diluted earnings per common
share to adjusted non-GAAP operating income, non-operating income (expense), net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. and diluted earnings per common share.        Products *        BlackRock offers a broad spectrum of investment
management and risk management products and services. Investment management offerings include single- and multi-asset class portfolios, which may be structured to focus on a particular investment style, capitalization range, region or market sector;
credit or maturity profile; or liability structure. Revenue from these products primarily consists of advisory fees, typically structured as a percentage of AUM. In some instances, we earn securities lending fees or performance fees, which may be
expressed as a share of earnings or a percentage of returns in excess of agreed-upon targets. In addition, BlackRock offers its  Aladdin       investment system, as well as risk management, outsourcing and advisory services, to institutional investors under the  BlackRock Solutions  name. Revenue on
these services may be based on several criteria including asset volume, number of users, accomplishment of specific deliverables or other performance objectives.       Equity       BlackRock s equity AUM closed the year at $1.536 trillion, up 656%, or $1.333
trillion, from reported AUM of $203.3 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was due primarily to the BGI Transaction, which contributed $1.188 trillion in acquired assets. On a pro forma combined basis, equity AUM increased 47% or $488.2
billion from $1.048 trillion at year-end 2008. The pro forma increase included $124.2 billion in net new business and $360.2 billion from investment performance (alpha) and positive market movement (beta).       Component Changes in Equity AUM        

(1)     
          Includes acquisition adjustments to conform to current period combined AUM policy and pro forma AUM acquired from NAFTRAC by BGI.        

(      2      )       
      Market/FX represents market appreciation (depreciation) and the impact of converting non-U.S.
dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.             BlackRock manages equity portfolios utilizing three distinct investment approaches: index or passive, active fundamental and active scientific. Index strategies employ a structured balance of risk, return
and cost to offer an efficient way to obtain exposure to equity markets. Fundamental investments seek to add value relative to a specified index or on an absolute basis primarily through security selection based on BlackRock s proprietary
research and portfolio manager judgment. Scientific equity strategies seek superior investment outcomes through a stock selection process that aims to systematically find and exploit pricing opportunities while rigorously managing risk and cost. A
wide variety of products are offered in each of these styles, including global and regional portfolios; value, growth and core products; large, mid and small cap strategies; and selected sector funds.          

*  
  See Product Performance Notes below.           
   8   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Products (continued)         Equity (continued)       At year-end 2009, index strategies represented $1.183 trillion, or 77%, of equity AUM. Active equity portfolios totaled $353.1 billion, or 23%, of equity
AUM, including $208.7 billion in active fundamental strategies and $144.3 billion in active scientific products. During the year, investors reallocated from cash earning near zero to higher risk assets, helping to fuel a strong recovery in the
global equity markets. Index strategies, including ETFs, attracted significant flows as an efficient means of gaining market exposure, in some cases pending longer-term allocations to active strategies. On a pro forma combined basis, BlackRock had
net new business of $146.8 billion in index funds and $10.4 billion in active fundamental portfolios, which more than offset $33.0 billion of net outflows in active scientific equities.      BlackRock manages equity portfolios for a diverse base of institutional and retail clients globally. At December 31, 2009, 65% of equity AUM or $1.001 trillion was managed on behalf of institutional
investors in separate accounts, collective investment trusts and mutual funds. An additional $381.4 billion or 25% of equity AUM were managed in  iShares  products, which are purchased by both institutional and retail investors on stock
exchanges worldwide. The remaining 10%, or $153.9 billion, of equity AUM was managed for retail and high net worth investors, largely through open-end mutual funds and separately managed accounts. Approximately 59%, or $912.2 billion, of our equity
AUM was managed for clients based in the United States and Canada. The remaining 41% or $623.9 billion of equity AUM included $444.5 billion managed for clients in Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ), $167.8 billion in Asia Pacific
and $11.5 billion for investors in Latin America and Iberia. Net inflows of $124.2 billion were positive across all regions, with $56.9 billion of net new business from the United States and Canada, $46.3 billion from EMEA, $18.8 billion from Asia
Pacific and $2.1 billion from Latin America and Iberia.      Global equity markets were volatile throughout 2009, reaching their two-year lows in
March and rebounding sharply thereafter. For example, the MSCI World Index declined to a low of 172.7 in March before rebounding to 299.4 at year-end, a 73% increase from its nadir and a 32% overall return for the full year. BlackRock s index
equity accounts closely tracked their corresponding benchmarks, with 68% of AUM achieving returns within 1% of index returns and 56% of AUM outperforming their benchmarks. Our active fundamental equity strategies maintained strong long-term track
records, with 59%, 76% and 86% of active fundamental AUM above their benchmarks (which for certain non-U.S. products are based upon peer medians), while 10%, 19% and 24% of active scientific AUM outperformed their benchmarks (which for certain
non-U.S. products are based upon peer medians) for the one-, three- and five-year periods ended December 31, 2009, respectively. Although active scientific equity strategies have struggled industry-wide since mid-2007, we believe in the
long-term viability of the approach and have committed substantial resources to research and development of the next generation of active scientific equity investing.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Products (continued)         Fixed Income       BlackRock s fixed income AUM ended 2009 at $1.056 trillion, representing an increase of $574.2 billion or 119%, over the previous year s reported results. The BGI Transaction added $517.3
billion of AUM. On a pro forma combined basis, fixed income AUM rose 18%, or $161.0 billion. During the year, we were awarded net new business of $77.1 billion, driving 48% of the year s increase in AUM. Investment performance and market
appreciation contributed $80.3 billion, or 50%, of the combined growth.       Component Changes in Fixed Income AUM

(1)       
      Includes acquisition adjustments to conform to current period combined AUM policy.   

(      2      )       
      Market/FX represents market appreciation (depreciation) and the impact of converting non-U.S.
dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes   .          BlackRock offers a broad range of index and actively managed fixed income products across regions, sectors, credit quality and maturities. Actively managed strategies may employ a fundamental or
model-driven investment process. The former emphasizes risk-controlled sector rotation and security selection driven by sector experts and direct interaction with issuers and market makers, while the latter employs models to identify relative return
opportunities and to apply those results, subject to a pragmatic review of model risk, on a systematic basis across portfolios. Fixed income mandates are often tailored to client-specified liabilities, accounting, regulatory or rating agency
requirements, or other investment policies. Year-end fixed income AUM consisted of $459.3 billion, or 44%, in index portfolios and $596.3 billion in active strategies. Investors returned to the bond markets in 2009, driving a substantial tightening
in credit spreads from the historically high levels reached during 2008. Demand for fixed income offerings was strong across products, with $62.8 billion of net new business in index products, including  iShares , and $14.2 billion in active
strategies. Key areas of growth included non-dollar denominated products, such as liability driven investment solutions in the U.K., and U.S. core strategies, with $38.2 billion and $15.8 billion of net inflows, respectively, throughout the year.
     Of BlackRock s total fixed income AUM, 81%, or $860.0 billion, was managed on behalf of institutional investors, 10% or $102.5 billion
of AUM was managed in  iShares  products, including 22 new offerings launched during 2009, and 9% or $93.2 billion was managed for retail and high net worth investors. The client base was well diversified geographically, with 54% or $572.2
billion of fixed income AUM managed for clients based in the United States and Canada. The remaining 46% or $483.4 billion of fixed income AUM included $332.4 billion managed for clients in EMEA, $143.0 billion in Asia Pacific and $8.0 billion for
investors in Latin America and Iberia. Net inflows of $38.9 billion and $45.7 billion from U.S and Canadian and EMEA clients, respectively, more than offset cumulative net outflows of $7.6 billion from clients in Asia Pacific and Latin America and
Iberia.      A significant rally in credit spreads drove strong performance in the bond markets, with the Barclays Global Aggregate Index posting
a 6.9% return for the year. BlackRock s fixed income index accounts closely tracked their benchmarks, with 77% of accounts achieving returns within 1% of index returns and 53% of AUM outperforming their benchmarks. Our active fixed income
strategies achieved strong performance in 2009, with 79%, 33% and 40% of active fundamental AUM above their benchmarks (which for certain non-U.S. products are based upon peer medians) and 71%, 70% and 89% of active model-based AUM above their
benchmarks (which for certain non-U.S. products are based upon peer medians) for the one-, three- and five-year periods ended December 31, 2009, respectively.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Products (continued)         Multi-Asset Class       In view of the growing demand for investment solutions that utilize a combination of fixed income, equities and alternative investments,
BlackRock is recognizing multi-asset class as a separate product category. Strategies include asset allocation and balanced mandates, target date and target risk funds, and fiduciary outsourcing relationships. BlackRock s multi-asset class AUM
closed the year at $142.0 billion, an increase of 83%, or $64.5 billion, from the $77.5 billion multi-asset class AUM that was reported as part of equity and balanced AUM at December 31, 2008. The  LifePath       portfolios, the industry s first target date funds, represented over half of the acquired AUM. On a pro forma
combined basis, multi-asset class AUM rose 33% or $35.4 billion, including $13.5 billion of net new business, largely driven by retail investors into mutual funds. The multi-asset class products were further spurred by the recovery in global
financial markets as positive market movements added another $21.5 billion throughout the year.       Component Changes in
Multi-Asset Class AUM        

(1)       
      Includes acquisition adjustments to conform to current period combined AUM policy.   

(2)       
      Market/FX represents market appreciation (depreciation) and the impact of converting non-U.S.
dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.             Asset allocation and balanced mandates represented $86.7 billion, or 61%, of total multi-asset class AUM at December 31, 2009. These products have been in strong demand by retail investors globally
seeking comprehensive investment solutions. Target date and target risk funds, including the  LifePath  portfolios and our newer  SponsorMatch       offerings, totaled $28.8 billion or 20% of multi-asset class AUM. These retirement savings products, which are Qualified Default Investment Options under the Pension
Protection Act of 2006, utilize a proprietary asset allocation model that seeks to balance risk and return over an investment horizon based on the investor s targeted retirement timing. Fiduciary outsourcing mandates, in which a pension plan
sponsor retains BlackRock to assume responsibility for some or all aspects of plan management, represented $24.4 billion, or 17%, of multi-asset class AUM. The remaining $2.0 billion, or 2%, of multi-asset class AUM was managed in various global
derivatives, diversified growth and relative return strategies.      BlackRock s multi-asset class products were managed on behalf of a
well-balanced client base. At December 31, 2009, institutional investors represented 54%, or $76.7 billion, of multi-asset class AUM, while retail and high net worth investors accounted for 46% or $65.2 billion. The remaining $0.2 billion were
managed in  iShares  offerings. The geographic mix was similarly diversified, with 53% or $75.8 billion of AUM managed for clients based in the United States and Canada, and 47% or $66.2 billion managed for international investors, principally
in EMEA. During the year, clients in the United States and Canada, EMEA and Latin America and Iberia awarded BlackRock net new business of $15.0 billion, which offset net outflows of $1.5 billion from clients in Asia Pacific.      Approximately 18% of BlackRock s multi-asset class AUM is managed in portfolios that are customized to unique client requirements. The remaining
strategies have achieved competitive performance, with 69% of AUM over their benchmarks for the one year, 73% for the three years and 86% for the five years ended December 31, 2009.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Products (continued)         Alternative Investments       BlackRock ended 2009 with $102.1 billion of AUM in its alternative investment products, a 66%, or $40.6 billion, increase as compared to reported AUM at
year-end 2008. The BGI Transaction added $49.4 billion of AUM in a variety of currency, commodity, global macro and hedge fund offerings. These products complement BlackRock s fund of funds, real estate, hedge fund and opportunistic strategies.
Alternative AUM was adversely affected by net outflows, disbursements from opportunistic funds and declining real estate markets in 2009. In particular, while many alternative managers suspended redemptions in 2008, we were able to avoid such
drastic action throughout the financial crisis. Although this policy may have amplified redemptions in our hedge funds and funds of hedge funds, we believe our focus on putting clients  needs first will be rewarded over time.       Component Changes in Alternative Investments AUM        

(      1      )       
      Includes acquisition adjustments to conform to current period combined AUM policy and AUM
acquired from R3 Capital Management, LLC.        

(2)       
      Market/FX represents market appreciation (depreciation) and the impact of converting non-U.S.
dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.           BlackRock s alternative investment
products include real estate debt and equity; funds of funds; macro funds, hedge funds and other absolute return strategies; and active currency and commodity funds, as described below. The alternative investment clientele was predominantly
institutional, representing 81% or $83.1 billion of alternatives AUM.  iShares  contributed another 10%, or $10.1 billion, of AUM, and retail and high net worth investors comprised the remaining 9% or $8.9 billion of ending assets. The
geographic mix was diversified, with 59% or $60.7 billion of AUM managed for clients in the United States and Canada, 23% or $23.7 billion for clients in EMEA, 17% or $17.6 billion for clients in Asia Pacific, and 1% or $62.4 million for clients in
Latin America and Iberia. Many of our alternative investment products had strong investment performance in 2009, and a number reached or surpassed their high water marks by year-end.       

Real Estate: At year-end 2009, BlackRock managed $18.1 billion in a variety of real estate debt and equity products. Offerings include high yield debt
and core, value-added and opportunistic equity portfolios. Real estate AUM decreased 30% or $7.7 billion during the year, driven by $7.3 billion in market declines and $0.4 billion of net outflows. Commercial real estate markets are expected to
continue to struggle through 2010.          

Funds of Funds: At December 31, 2009, BlackRock managed $22.1 billion of AUM in funds of funds offered under the  BlackRock Alternative Advisors
 ( BAA ) name. Products include hedge fund, private equity and real asset funds of funds, as well as co-investment and hybrid vehicles. BAA AUM declined $0.6 billion during 2009. Net outflows of $2.9 billion principally stemming from
redemption requests submitted at the end of 2008, in addition to a disposition of a $0.2 billion real estate fund of funds portfolio, were almost fully offset by $2.5 billion of growth due to strong investment performance and market appreciation.
           
   12   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Products (continued)         Alternative Investments (continued)        

Hedge Funds: BlackRock ended 2009 with $24.9 billion of AUM in a variety of fixed income and equity hedge funds, global macro funds, portable alpha,
distressed and opportunistic strategies. Offerings include both open-end hedge funds and similar products, and closed-end funds that have been created to take advantage of specific opportunities over a defined, often longer-term investment horizon.
During the year, we added $13.8 billion of AUM through the acquisitions of BGI and the R3 Capital Partners funds. On a pro forma combined basis, AUM decreased $1.4 billion, with $5.5 billion of net outflows, including $1.1 billion of disbursements
from opportunistic investments, largely offset by $1.3 billion of acquired AUM and an additional $2.8 billion of investment returns and market appreciation.          

Currency and Commodity Funds: At year-end, BlackRock managed $35.7 billion in currency and commodity mandates, the vast majority of which were acquired
through the BGI Transaction. These products include active currency and currency overlay strategies primarily managed through institutional separate accounts, and commodity portfolios primarily offered as  iShares  products. Pro forma combined
AUM increased $6.7 billion during 2009, driven by $2.3 billion of net new business and $4.4 billion of market appreciation.          Cash Management       AUM in cash management products stood at $349.3 billion at
December 31, 2009, up $10.8 billion, or 3%, from AUM reported at year-end 2008. The BGI Transaction added $59.5 billion of AUM. The 2008 surge in cash management assets reversed in 2009, as investors tired of earning little to no return
reallocated to various long-dated strategies offering the potential for higher returns. On a pro forma combined basis, net outflows totaled $59.4 billion, resulting in a 15% decrease in spot AUM and an approximately 10% decline in average AUM
relative to 2008.       Component Changes in Cash Management AUM        

(      1      )       
      Includes acquisition adjustments to conform to current period combined AUM policy.   

(      2      )       
      Market/FX represents market appreciation (depreciation) and the impact of converting non-U.S.
dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.           BlackRock employs a conservative investment
style that emphasizes quality, liquidity and superior client service throughout all market cycles. Disciplined risk management, including a rigorous credit surveillance process, is an integral part of the investment process. Products include taxable
and tax-exempt money market funds and customized separate accounts. Portfolios may be denominated in U.S. dollar, Euro or Sterling. The BGI Transaction added substantial scale in our non-dollar offerings: 63% or $37.5 billion of total acquired cash
management AUM was invested in offshore markets.      The cash management team also manages the cash we receive as collateral for securities on
loan in other portfolios. Securities lending, which is offered as a potential source of incremental returns on long-dated portfolios, is managed by a dedicated team, supported by quantitative analysis, proprietary technology and disciplined risk
management. Fees for securities lending can be structured as a share of earnings or a percentage of the value of the cash collateral. The value of the securities on loan is reported as AUM in the corresponding asset class. The value of the cash
collateral is not included in cash management AUM.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Products (continued)         Cash Management (continued)       Our cash management clientele remained largely institutional, with 80%, or $280.4 billion, of cash AUM managed on behalf of institutions and 19%, or $67.6
billion, managed for retail investors at year-end 2009. An additional $1.3 billion of cash AUM was managed in  iShares  products. The investor base was also predominantly domestic, with 76% or $265.4 billion of AUM managed for U.S. and Canadian
investors and 24%, or $83.9 billion, managed for international clients, almost all of which were based in EMEA. While we suffered significant net outflows from U.S. clients reallocating out of cash, we attracted net inflows internationally where we
gained market share as a relatively new entrant. We expect cash management AUM to remain volatile, with outflows likely as the economy stabilizes and central banks end their quantitative easing programs and eventually raise interest rates.
      BlackRock Solutions and Advisory       BlackRock offers investment systems, risk management, outsourcing and advisory services under the  BlackRock Solutions  brand name. Over $9.0 trillion of positions are processed on our  Aladdin 
operating platform, which serves as the investment system for BlackRock and a growing number of sophisticated institutional investors.  BlackRock Solutions  also offers comprehensive risk reporting via the  Green Package       and risk management advisory services, interactive fixed income analytics through our web-based calculator,
 AnSer      , middle and back office outsourcing services and investment accounting. Clients have also retained
 BlackRock Solutions  for a variety of financial markets advisory engagements, such as valuation and risk assessment of illiquid assets, portfolio restructuring, workouts and dispositions of distressed assets and financial and balance sheet
strategies.      As the global capital markets began to recover, clients remained focused on risk management, and demand for  BlackRock
Solutions  continued to grow. During the year,  BlackRock Solutions  added 48 net new assignments and revenue increased 21% to $477 million. Growth was well balanced across  Aladdin , risk management and financial markets advisory
services. Advisory AUM increased 11% to $161.2 billion, buoyed by $11.6 billion of net inflows and $4.5 billion of growth driven by market performance in these long-term liquidation portfolios. At year-end,  BlackRock Solutions  served 130
clients, including banks, insurance companies, official institutions, pension funds, asset managers and other institutional investors across North America, Europe, Asia and Australia.      The  BlackRock Solutions, Aladdin  and technology teams are also supporting key aspects of the BGI integration. These efforts, which are expected to continue through 2011, are vital to establishing a
unified operating platform and consistent operating processes. We expect the integration of BGI s extensive quantitative tools, risk management models and portfolio construction applications across asset classes to enhance the  Aladdin
 platform over time. Additionally, we will seek to leverage our scale for the benefit of our clients through the creation of a robust global trading platform.       Transition Management Services       BlackRock also offers transition management services,
involving the temporary oversight of a client s assets as they transition from one manager to another or from one strategy to another. We provide a comprehensive service that includes project management and implementation based on achieving
best execution consistent with the client s risk management tolerances. We use  Aladdin  and other state-of-the-art tools and work closely with BlackRock s trading cost research team to manage four dimensions of risk throughout the
transition: exposure, execution, process and operational risk. The average transition assignment is executed within two weeks, although the duration can be longer or shorter depending on the size, complexity and liquidity of the related assets.
These portfolios are not included in AUM unless BlackRock has been retained to manage the assets after the transition phase.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Products (continued)         * Product Performance Notes       Past performance is not indicative of future results. The performance information reflects all benchmark-based client accounts and products managed by
BlackRock, other than ETFs and structured products. Source of performance information is BlackRock, Inc. and peer medians are based in part on data from Morningstar, Inc. for non-U.S. funds. Fund performance reflects the reinvestment of dividends
and distributions, but does not reflect fees or sales charges. If fees or sales charges were reflected, the performance information shown could have differed significantly.        Clients        BlackRock
manages money for institutional and retail investors worldwide. Our client base is diversified by both geography and client type. We serve clients through 74 offices across four regions: United States and Canada, EMEA, Asia Pacific and Latin America
and Iberia. Clients include tax-exempt institutions, such as defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans, charities, foundations and endowments; official institutions, such as central banks, sovereign wealth funds, supranationals and
other government entities; taxable institutions, including insurance companies, financial institutions, corporations and third party fund sponsors; and retail and high net worth investors. We also serve both institutional and retail investors who
acquire  iShares  on stock exchanges worldwide.       AUM by Client Domicile and Client Type        Year ended December 31, 2009        

*  
  By jurisdiction of fund, rather than domicile of underlying investors.         Global Presence       BlackRock serves clients in more than 100 countries through the efforts of
professionals located in 24 countries. Our global presence enables us to deliver highly responsive service and to tailor our offerings to best serve the needs of local investors. Portfolios may be invested in local, regional or global capital
markets. Products may be structured to address location-specific issues, such as regulations, taxation, operational infrastructure, and market liquidity, and client-specific issues, such as investment policy, liability structure and ratings.

At year-end 2009, assets managed on behalf of clients domiciled in the United States and Canada (including offshore investors), totaled $2.042 trillion
or 61% of total AUM, an increase of $1.070 trillion versus reported AUM at December 31, 2008. On a pro forma combined basis, AUM increased 19% or $322.3 billion, including $62.1 billion of net new business and $264.4 billion from investment
performance and market appreciation. Offerings include closed-end funds and  iShares  traded on domestic stock exchanges, a full range of open-end mutual funds, collective investment funds, common trusts, private funds and separate accounts.
Clients invest across the full product range, as evidenced by the year-end mix of 45% in equities, 28% in fixed income, 4% in multi-asset class, 3% in alternatives, 13% in cash management and 7% in advisory mandates. In addition, we have a wide
variety of  BlackRock Solutions  assignments for institutional investors and governmental entities in the United States and Canada.            
   15   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Clients (continued)         Global Presence (continued)        

AUM for clients domiciled in EMEA ended the year at $936.0 billion or 28% of total AUM, an increase of $691.4 billion relative to reported AUM at
December 31, 2008. During the year, clients awarded us net new business of $88.4 billion on a pro forma combined basis, including inflows from clients in 31 countries across the region. Our offerings include fund families in the U.K.,
Luxembourg and Dublin, and  iShares  listed on eight stock exchanges throughout EMEA, as well as separate accounts and pooled investment products. The product mix reflected the evolution of our product line-up in the region, with more
established equity and multi-asset class offerings accounting for 47% and 5% of total EMEA client AUM, respectively, and our relatively newer fixed income, alternatives and cash management products representing 36%, 3% and 9% of EMEA client AUM at
year-end, respectively. In addition, advisory AUM represented less than 1% of EMEA client AUM, and we have  Aladdin , risk management and financial advisory assignments for institutional investors and governmental entities throughout Europe.

Clients in the Asia Pacific region are served through offices in Japan, Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and Korea and joint ventures in China
and India. At December 31, 2009, we managed $347.5 billion of AUM for clients in the region, an increase of 20% or $58.1 billion on a pro forma basis. Net new business contributed $7.3 billion, and the remainder of the increase was attributable
to investment performance and favorable market movements. At year-end, the mix of products managed for these clients consisted of 48% in equities, 41% in fixed income, 4% in multi-asset class, 5% in alternatives, 1% in advisory and less than 1% in
cash management products.          

BlackRock s business in Latin America and Iberia grew significantly during the year, from $6.8 billion of reported AUM at
year-end 2008 to $21.1 billion of AUM in December 31, 2009. On a pro forma combined basis, AUM increased $9.6 billion or 83%, driven by net new business of $1.9 billion, acquired assets of $3.8 billion (reflecting the BGI acquisition of
the NAFTRAC ETF platform in Mexico in the first half of 2009) and $3.9 billion of investment performance and market and foreign exchange appreciation. BlackRock is the largest manager of pension plan assets in Mexico, Chile, Peru and Colombia, with
clients using a combination of BlackRock s domestic and cross-border investment offerings   2   . At year-end, the product mix consisted of 55% in equities, 38% in fixed income, 7% in multi-asset class, and less than 1% in each of alternatives and cash management products.
         Institutional Investors       Assets managed for institutional investors totaled $2.462 trillion at year-end 2009, up 142%, or $1.447 trillion, relative to reported AUM at year-end 2008. Our institutional clients invest in the full
range of products offered by BlackRock. At year-end, institutional AUM included $2.182 trillion invested in a wide variety of long-dated mandates and $280.4 billion invested in institutional cash management products. Net new business during the year
reflected the shift in investor appetite for higher returns and the resulting reallocation from money market funds to equities, fixed income, multi-asset class and alternative investments. On a pro forma combined basis, AUM increased $397.0 billion,
or 19%, during the year, including $126.5 billion of net new business in long-dated assets, which was partially offset by $37.9 billion of net outflows in institutional cash products. The remaining pro forma combined growth of $309.8 billion
represented investment performance and market and foreign exchange appreciation.      Our institutional client base is well diversified by both
client domicile and client segment. At December 31, 2009, approximately 56% or $1.370 trillion of AUM was managed for clients based in the United States and Canada, 32% or $776.5 billion for clients in EMEA, 13% or $309.3 billion for clients in
Asia Pacific and less than 1% or $6.5 billion for clients in Latin America and Iberia. Globally, these clients spanned a broad range of tax-exempt, taxable and official institutions, as described below.           

2     
    Consar custody reports; Superintendencia de Pensiones; Superintendencia de Banca, Seguros y AFPs; and Superintendencia Financiera de Colombia,
respectively.            
   16   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Clients (continued)         Institutional Investors (continued)        

BlackRock is among the largest managers of pension plan assets in the world, with $1.403 trillion, or 57%, of institutional AUM managed for defined
benefit and defined contribution plans for corporations, public funds and union funds at December 31, 2009. An additional $61.8 billion or 2.5% of year-end institutional AUM was managed for other tax-exempt investors, including charities,
foundations and endowments. Assets managed for these clients grew $313.1 billion on a pro forma combined basis during 2009, as tax-exempt investors reallocated to a variety of products, including tactical and core allocations to index equity and
fixed income, liability-driven investments and fiduciary outsourcing services.          

We also managed $240.0 billion or 10% of institutional AUM for official institutions, including central banks, sovereign wealth funds, supranationals,
multilateral entities and government ministries and agencies. These clients often require specialized investment policy advice, the use of customized benchmarks, and training support. In addition, BlackRock has been selected to provide a range of
financial markets advisory services, including long-term portfolio liquidation assignments counted in advisory AUM, for these clients. During 2009, investment and advisory AUM for official institutions increased 11% or $22.8 billion.

BlackRock is also one of the top two independent managers of assets for insurance companies, which accounted for $200.8 billion or 8% of institutional
AUM at year-end. Assets managed on behalf of these clients increased $43.7 billion during 2009, and included $28.8 billion of net new business driven by a continuing trend toward outsourcing of some or all of the investment function by insurance
companies globally. Assets managed for other taxable institutions, including corporations, banks and third party fund sponsors for which we provide sub-advisory services, totaled $286.9 billion or 12% of institutional AUM at year-end.

The remaining $269.3 billion or 11% of institutional AUM was managed on behalf of taxable and tax-exempt institutions invested in our cash management
products at December 31, 2009. See the Product section above for additional information on our cash management AUM.          Retail and High Net Worth Investors       BlackRock s investment management expertise is
offered to retail investors globally through separate accounts, open-end and closed-end funds, unit trusts and private investment funds. At December 31, 2009, assets managed for retail and high net worth investors totaled $388.7 billion, up
33%, or $96.9 billion, versus year-end 2008 reported AUM. On a pro forma combined basis, we were awarded net new business of $27.9 billion in long-dated assets, which was partially offset by $21.5 billion of net outflows in money market funds.
Investment performance and market appreciation contributed $61.3 billion of additional AUM growth.      Retail and high net worth investors are
largely served through intermediaries, including broker-dealers, banks, trust companies, insurance companies and independent financial advisors. Clients invest primarily in mutual funds, which totaled $289.4 billion or 74% of retail and high net
worth AUM at December 31, 2009, with the remainder invested in private investment funds and separately managed accounts. The product mix is well diversified, with 40%, or $153.9 billion, invested in equities, 24%, or $93.2 billion, in fixed
income, 17% in each of multi-asset class ($65.2 billion) and cash management ($67.6 billion), and 2%, or $8.9 billion, in alternative investment products.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Clients (continued)         Retail and High Net Worth Investors (continued)       The client base is also diversified geographically, with $213.8 billion, or 67%, of long-dated AUM managed for retail and high net worth investors based in
the United States and Canada, $71.5 billion, or 22%, for investors based in EMEA, $29.6 billion, or 9%, in Asia Pacific, and $6.3 billion, or 2%, in Latin America and Iberia. The remaining $67.6 billion, or 17%, of retail and high net worth AUM is
invested in cash management products, principally money market funds offered in the United States. Our success in each of these regions reflects strong relationships with intermediaries and an established ability to deliver our global investment
expertise in funds and other products tailored to local regulations and requirements.      Our retail and high net worth
offerings include the  BlackRock Funds  in the United States, our Luxembourg cross-border fund families,  BlackRock Global Funds  ( BGF ) and  BlackRock Strategic Funds , and a range of retail funds in the U.K. BGF is
registered in 37 countries and has more S P rated funds than any cross-border mutual fund family. In 2009, we were ranked as the third largest cross border fund provider and the third largest asset gatherer in that universe   3   . In the U.K., we ranked among the seven largest fund
managers   3   , and are known for our innovative product
offerings, including the absolute alpha products we introduced in 2005. In the United States, we had over 50 product placements on broker-dealer platforms during the year and have grown our market position from tenth to fourth largest fund manager
since we acquired MLIM in late-2006   4   . In 2009, BlackRock
won the Dalbar award for customer service in financial services, the tenth occasion on which we have been recognized for outstanding achievement in this area.       iShares       At December 31, 2009,  iShares  AUM reached $495.5
billion, all of which was added in connection with the BGI acquisition.  iShares  is the industry s leading ETF platform, with more than 51% market share in the United States and 38% market share in EMEA   5   . In addition, we are the largest ETF manager in Mexico, have
pioneered the product in Chile and Peru, and have introduced products in Brazil, Australia and Asia Pacific.  iShares  AUM increased $169.6 billion, or 52%, during 2009 on a pro forma combined basis, including $64.6 billion of net new business
and $101.3 billion in market appreciation and favorable foreign exchange movements. At year-end, our  iShares  product mix included $381.4 billion, or 77%, in equity offerings and $102.5 billion, or 21%, in bond funds. The remainder was split
between alternative investments ($10.1 billion, or 2%) and cash management products ($1.3 billion, or less than 1%).      BlackRock brings institutional quality index management to the public market via ETFs with  iShares . Our global leadership position in the ETF market is reflected in the size, liquidity and range of our products. As of year-end, we
managed three of the top five, six of the top ten, and 13 of the top 20 ETFs by AUM in the marketplace   5   . Our 417  iShares  offerings, up from 362 at year-end 2008, were traded on 19 exchanges throughout the world. These included 220 funds in the United States and Canada with $394.3 billion, or 80%, of
 iShares  AUM. Assets in these funds increased $128.7 billion, or 48%, during the year, including $48.4 billion of net inflows.      The
 iShares  platform also has an expansive international business, with local operations in EMEA, Asia Pacific, and Latin America and Iberia. At December 31, 2009, $101.2 billion of AUM was managed in 197 funds across these regions.
International  iShares  AUM increased $41.0 billion or 68% during 2009, with $16.2 billion of the growth attributable to net inflows and $21.0 billion to favorable market and foreign exchange rate movements. In addition, the acquisition of the
NAFTRAC ETF platform in Mexico in early 2009 added $3.8 billion in AUM to the  iShares  complex and solidified our leading position in Mexico and Latin America.       

3     
    Lipper Feri      

5     
    Bloomberg            
   18   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)           Competition        BlackRock competes with investment management firms, mutual fund complexes, insurance companies, banks,
brokerage firms and other financial institutions that offer products that are similar to, or alternatives to, those offered by BlackRock. In order to grow its business, BlackRock must be able to compete effectively for AUM. Key competitive factors
include investment performance track records, the efficient delivery of beta, investment style and discipline, client service and brand name recognition. Historically, the Company has competed principally on the basis of its long-term investment
performance track record, its investment process, its risk management and analytic capabilities and the quality of its client service. Certain of the Company s competitors, however, have greater marketing resources than BlackRock, particularly
in retail channels. These factors may place BlackRock at a competitive disadvantage and there can be no assurance that the Company s strategies and efforts to maintain its existing AUM and to attract new business will be successful.   
     
   19   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)            
     Geographic Information        BlackRock has clients in over 100 countries across the globe, including the United States, the United Kingdom, and Japan.      The following table illustrates the Company s revenues and long-lived assets, including goodwill and property and equipment for the years ended
December 2009, 2008 and 2007. These amounts are aggregated on a legal entity jurisdiction basis and do not necessarily reflect where the customer is sourced.       
    Americas primarily is comprised of the United States, Canada, Brazil and Mexico, while Europe primarily is comprised of the
United Kingdom and Asia-Pacific primarily is comprised of Japan, Australia and Hong Kong.        Employees     
  At December 31, 2009, BlackRock had a total of 8,629 full-time employees. Of all full-time employees, 3,532 are located in offices outside the United
States. At December 31, 2008, BlackRock had a total of 5,341 full-time employees.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)            
     Regulation        Virtually all aspects of BlackRock s business are subject to various laws and regulations both in and outside the United States, some of which are summarized below. These laws and regulations are
primarily intended to protect investment advisory clients, stockholders of registered and unregistered investment companies, trust customers of BlackRock Institutional Trust Company, N.A. ( BTC ) and the bank subsidiaries of Bank of
America and PNC and their customers. Under these laws and regulations, agencies that regulate investment advisers, investment funds and financial and bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, such as BlackRock and its subsidiaries, have broad
administrative powers, including the power to limit, restrict or prohibit the regulated entity from carrying on business if it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Possible sanctions for significant compliance failures include the
suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain lines of business for specified periods of time, revocation of investment adviser and other registrations, censures and fines.      Recent market disruptions have led to numerous proposals both in and outside the United States for changes in the regulation of the financial services
industry. New laws or regulations, or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could adversely impact the scope or profitability of BlackRock s business activities, could require BlackRock to change certain business practices and
could expose BlackRock to additional costs (including compliance and tax costs) and liabilities, as well as reputational harm. Regulatory changes could also lead to business disruptions, could adversely impact the value of assets in which BlackRock
has invested directly and/or on behalf of clients, and, to the extent the regulations strictly control the activities of financial services firms, could make it more difficult for BlackRock to conduct certain businesses or distinguish itself from
competitors.      Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by our regulators and self-regulatory organizations, or changes in the
interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules may directly affect the method of operation and profitability of BlackRock. The profitability of BlackRock also could be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and
financial communities in general, including changes to the laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce.      The rules
governing the regulation of financial institutions and their holding companies and subsidiaries are very detailed and technical. Accordingly, the below discussion is general in nature and does not purport to be complete.       U.S. Regulation       Certain of
BlackRock s U.S. subsidiaries are subject to regulation, primarily at the federal level, by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ), the Department of Labor (the  DOL ), the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency of the United States (the  OCC ), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ), the National Futures Association (the
 NFA ), the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC ) and other government agencies and regulatory bodies. Certain BlackRock U.S. subsidiaries are also subject to various terrorist financing, privacy, anti-money
laundering regulations and economic sanctions, laws and regulations established by various agencies.      The Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as
amended (the  Advisers Act ), imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers such as BlackRock, including record-keeping, operational and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent
activities. The Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the  Investment Company Act ), imposes stringent governance, compliance, operational, disclosure and related obligations on registered investment companies and their investment
advisers and distributors, such as BlackRock. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment
adviser s registration. Investment advisers also are subject to certain state securities laws and regulations. Non-compliance with the Advisers Act, the Investment Company Act or other federal and state securities laws and regulations could
result in investigations, sanctions, disgorgement, fines and reputational damage.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)            

     Regulation (continued)           

    U.S. Regulation (continued)          
   BlackRock s trading and investment activities for client accounts are regulated under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), as well as the rules of various U.S. and non-U.S. securities exchanges and self-regulatory organizations, including laws governing trading on inside information, market
manipulation and a broad number of technical requirements (e.g., volume limitations, reporting obligations) and market regulation policies in the United States and globally. In addition, BlackRock manages a variety of investment funds listed on U.S.
and non-U.S. exchanges, which are subject to the rules of such exchanges. Violation of these laws and regulations could result in restrictions on the Company s activities and in damage to its reputation. BlackRock manages a variety of private
pools of capital, including hedge funds, funds of hedge funds, private equity funds, real estate funds, collective investment trusts, managed futures funds and hybrid funds. Congress, regulators, tax authorities and others continue to explore, on
their own and in response to demands from the investment community and the public, increased regulation related to private pools of capital, including changes with respect to investor eligibility, certain limitations on trading activities, the scope
of anti-fraud protections, safekeeping of client assets and a variety of other matters. BlackRock may be adversely affected by new legislation, rule-making or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing rules and regulations imposed by
various regulators.      Certain BlackRock subsidiaries are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
( ERISA ), and to regulations promulgated thereunder by the DOL, insofar as they act as a  fiduciary  under ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose certain
duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit certain transactions involving ERISA plan clients and impose excise taxes for violations of these prohibitions, mandate certain required periodic reporting and disclosures and require
BlackRock to carry bonds ensuring against losses caused by fraud or dishonesty. ERISA also imposes additional compliance, reporting and operational requirements on BlackRock that otherwise are not applicable to non-benefit plan clients.   
  BlackRock has two subsidiaries that are registered as commodity pool operators and commodity trading advisers, two other subsidiaries that are registered
as commodity trading advisers and three additional subsidiaries only registered as commodity pool operators with the CFTC. All seven of these subsidiaries are members of the NFA. The CFTC and NFA each administer a comparable regulatory system
covering futures contracts and various other financial instruments in which certain BlackRock clients may invest. Four of BlackRock s other subsidiaries, BlackRock Investments, LLC ( BRIL ), BlackRock Capital Markets, LLC, BlackRock
Execution Services, and BlackRock Fund Distribution Company ( BFDC ) are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers and are member-firms of FINRA. Each broker-dealer has a membership agreement with FINRA that limits the scope of such
broker-dealer s permitted activities. BRIL is also an approved person with the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ). BRIL and BFDC are members of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board ( MSRB ) and are subject to MSRB rules.
        
   22   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)            

     Regulation (continued)           
    U.S. Banking Regulation       Each of Bank of America and PNC is a bank holding company and a  financial holding company  regulated by the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ). Because the ownership interests of each of Bank of America and PNC in BlackRock exceeds 25% on an economic or voting basis, BlackRock is deemed to be a non-bank subsidiary of Bank of America
and PNC and is therefore subject to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve and to most banking laws, regulations and orders that apply to Bank of America and PNC. The supervision and regulation of Bank of America, PNC and their
respective subsidiaries under applicable banking laws is intended primarily for the protection of their respective banking subsidiaries, their depositors, the deposit insurance funds of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the banking
system as a whole, rather than for the protection of stockholders, creditors or clients of Bank of America, PNC or BlackRock. Bank of America s and PNC s relationships and good standing with their regulators are important to the conduct of
BlackRock s business. BlackRock may also be subject to foreign banking laws and supervision that could affect its business.      BTC is a
national trust company that does not accept deposits and is a member of the Federal Reserve System. Accordingly, BTC is examined and supervised by the OCC and is subject to various banking laws and regulations enforced by the OCC, such as capital
adequacy, regulations governing fiduciaries, conflicts of interest, self-dealing, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. BTC is also subject to various Federal Reserve regulations applicable to member institutions, such as regulations
restricting transactions with affiliates. These laws and regulations are meant for the protection of BTC s customers, and not BTC, BTC s affiliates or shareholders.      BlackRock generally may conduct only activities that are authorized for a  financial holding company  under the BHC Act. Investment management is an authorized activity, but must be conducted
within applicable regulatory requirements, which in some cases are more restrictive than those BlackRock faces under applicable securities laws. BlackRock may also invest in investment companies and private investment funds to which it provides
advisory, administrative or other services, to the extent consistent with applicable law and regulatory interpretations. The Federal Reserve has broad powers to approve, deny or refuse to act upon applications or notices for BlackRock to conduct new
activities, acquire or divest businesses or assets, or reconfigure existing operations. There are limits on the ability of bank subsidiaries of Bank of America and PNC to extend credit to or conduct other transactions with BlackRock. Bank of
America, PNC and their subsidiaries are also subject to examination by various banking regulators, which results in examination reports and ratings that may adversely impact the conduct and growth of BlackRock s businesses.      The Federal Reserve has broad enforcement authority over BlackRock, including the power to prohibit BlackRock from conducting any activity that, in the
Federal Reserve s opinion, is unauthorized or constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting BlackRock s business. The Federal Reserve may also impose substantial fines and other penalties for violations of applicable banking
laws, regulations and orders.      Any failure of either Bank of America or PNC to maintain its status as a financial holding company could result
in substantial limitations on certain BlackRock activities and its growth. Such a change of status could be caused by any failure of one of Bank of America s or PNC s bank subsidiaries to remain  well capitalized,  by any
examination downgrade of one of Bank of America s or PNC s bank subsidiaries, or by any failure of one of Bank of America s or PNC s bank subsidiaries to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act.
      Non-U.S. Regulation       BlackRock s international operations are subject to the laws and regulations of non-U.S. jurisdictions and non-U.S. regulatory agencies and bodies. As BlackRock continues to expand its international business, a number of its
subsidiaries and international operations have become subject to regulatory systems comparable to those affecting its operations in the United States.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)            

     Regulation (continued)           

    Non-U.S. Regulation (continued)          
   The Financial Services Authority (the  FSA ) regulates BlackRock s subsidiaries in the
United Kingdom. Authorization by the FSA is required to conduct any financial services related business in the United Kingdom pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The FSA s rules govern a firm s capital resources
requirements, senior management arrangements, conduct of business, interaction with clients and systems and controls. Breaches of these rules may result in a wide range of disciplinary actions against the Company s U.K.-regulated subsidiaries.
In addition, these subsidiaries and other European subsidiaries and branches, must comply with the pan-European regime established by the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive ( MiFID ), which came into effect on November 1, 2007
and regulates the provision of investment services throughout the European Economic Area, as well as the Capital Requirements Directive, which delineates regulatory capital requirements. MiFID sets out more detailed requirements governing the
organization and conduct of business of investment firms and regulated markets. It also includes pre- and post-trade transparency requirements for equity markets and more extensive transaction reporting requirements.      The United Kingdom has adopted the MiFID rules into national legislation, as have those other European jurisdictions (excluding Switzerland which is not
part of the EU) in which BlackRock has a presence. However, the introduction of further new regulations that will apply to BlackRock s European activities remains likely as a result of further EU-wide legislation. A review of MiFID by the
European Commission is mandated for 2010 to report on the need for extensions to the pre- and post-trade transparency obligations and may result in further rules in this area. A new EU directive, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive,
is currently in draft form and is likely to be implemented in 2013. This will regulate managers of, and service providers to, alternative investment funds domiciled within Europe and the marketing of all alternative investment funds into Europe.
There are also ongoing plans to reform the framework to which regulated firms are subject, including in relation to regulatory capital and the protection of client assets.      In addition to the FSA, the activities of certain BlackRock subsidiaries, branches, and representative offices are overseen by comparable regulators in Germany, The Netherlands, Ireland, Luxembourg,
Switzerland, Isle of Man, Jersey, Guernsey, France, Belgium, Italy, Poland, Spain and Sweden. Regulators in these jurisdictions have authority with respect to financial services including, among other things, the authority to grant or cancel
required licenses or registrations. In addition, these regulators may subject certain BlackRock subsidiaries to net capital requirements. Other BlackRock subsidiaries, branches, and representative offices are regulated in China, Hong Kong,
Singapore, Taiwan, South Korea, India, Dubai, Brazil, Chile, Mexico and Canada.      In Japan, certain BlackRock subsidiaries are subject to the
Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (the  FIEL ) and the Law Concerning Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations. These laws are administered and enforced by the Japanese Financial Services Agency (the  JFSA ), which
establishes standards for compliance, including capital adequacy and financial soundness requirements, customer protection requirements and conduct of business rules. The JFSA is empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in
censure, fine, the issuance of cease and desist orders or the suspension or revocation of registrations and licenses granted under the FIEL.      In Australia, BlackRock s subsidiaries are subject to various Australian federal and state laws and certain subsidiaries are regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (the  ASIC ) and the Australian
Prudential Regulatory Authority (the  APRA ). The ASIC regulates companies and financial services in Australia and is responsible for promoting investor, creditor and consumer protection. The APRA is the prudential regulator of the
Australian financial services industry and oversees banks, credit unions, building societies, general insurance and reinsurance companies, life insurance, friendly societies and most members of the superannuation (pension) industry. Failure to
comply with applicable law and regulations could result in the cancellation, suspension or variation of the regulated subsidiaries licenses in Australia.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS (continued)            

     Regulation (continued)           
   The activities of certain BlackRock subsidiaries in Hong Kong are subject to the Securities and Futures
Ordinance (the  SFO ) which governs the securities and futures markets and the non-bank retail leveraged foreign exchange market in Hong Kong. The SFO is administered by the Securities and Futures Commission (the  SFC ), an
independent non-governmental body. The relevant subsidiaries, and certain individuals representing them, which conduct business in any of the regulated activities specified in the SFO are generally required to be registered or licensed with the SFC,
and are subject to the rules, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC from time to time.      There are parallel legal and regulatory arrangements
in force in many other non-U.S. jurisdictions where BlackRock s subsidiaries are authorized to conduct business.        Available Information        BlackRock files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and all amendments to
these reports and other information with the SEC. BlackRock makes available free-of charge, on or through its website at  http://www.blackrock.com , the Company s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and all amendments to those filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Company also makes available on its website the charters for
the Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors, its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers
and its Corporate Governance Guidelines. Further, BlackRock will provide, without charge, upon written request, a copy of the Company s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements
and all amendments to those filings as well as the committee charters, its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers and its Corporate Governance Guidelines. Requests for copies should
be addressed to Investor Relations, BlackRock, Inc., 55 East 52nd Street, New York, New York 10055. Investors may read and copy any document BlackRock files at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please
call 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. Reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including BlackRock s filings, are also
available to the public from the SEC s website at  http://www.sec.gov .         
   25   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS         As a leading investment
management firm, risk is an inherent part of BlackRock s business. Global markets, by their nature, are prone to uncertainty and subject participants to a variety of risks. While BlackRock devotes significant resources across all of its
operations to identify, measure, monitor, manage and analyze market and operating risks, BlackRock s business, financial condition, operating results or non-operating results could be materially adversely affected, however, by any of the
following risks.        Risks Related to BlackRock s Business and Competition          Changes in the value levels of the capital markets or other asset classes could lead to a decline in revenues and earnings.        BlackRock s investment management revenues are primarily comprised of fees based on a percentage of the value of AUM and, in some cases, performance
fees expressed as a percentage of the returns earned on AUM. Movements in equity market prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, or all three could cause the following, which would result in lower investment advisory, administration and
performance fees or earnings:       

the value of AUM to decrease;          

the returns realized on AUM to decrease;          

clients to withdraw funds in favor of products in markets that they perceive offer greater opportunity and that BlackRock does not serve;

clients to rebalance assets away from products that BlackRock manages into products that it does not manage;          

clients to rebalance assets away from products that earn higher fees into products with lower fees; and          

an impairment to the value of intangible assets and goodwill.           Poor investment performance could lead to the loss of clients and a decline in revenues and earnings.        The Company s management believes that investment performance is one of the most important factors for the growth and retention of AUM. Poor investment performance relative to applicable portfolio
benchmarks or to competitors could reduce revenues and cause earnings to decline as a result of:       

existing clients withdrawing funds in favor of better performing products, which could result in lower investment advisory and administration fees;

the diminishing ability to attract funds from existing and new clients;          

the Company earning minimal or no performance fees; and          

an impairment to the value of intangible assets and goodwill.           BlackRock may elect to provide support to its products from time to time.        BlackRock may, at its option, from time to time support investment products through capital or credit support. See,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital
Resources.  Such support utilizes capital that would otherwise be available for other corporate purposes. Losses on such support, or failure to have or devote sufficient capital to support products, could have an adverse impact on revenues and
earnings.        Changes in the value levels of the capital markets or other asset classes could lead to a decline in the value of investments
that BlackRock owns.        At December 31, 2009, BlackRock held approximately $1 billion of investments that are reflected on its
statement of financial condition. Approximately $0.5 billion of this amount is the result of consolidation of certain sponsored investment funds. BlackRock s economic interest in these investments is primarily the result of seed and
co-investments in its sponsored investment funds. A decline in the prices of stocks or bonds, or the value of real estate or other alternative investments within or outside the United States could lower the value of these investments and result in a
decline of non-operating income and increased volatility to earnings.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS (continued)            
     Continued capital losses on investments could have adverse income tax consequences.
       The Company may generate realized and unrealized capital losses on seed investments and co-investments. Realized capital losses may
be carried back three years and carried forward five years and offset against realized capital gains for federal income tax purposes. The Company has unrealized capital losses for which a deferred tax asset has been established. In the event such
unrealized losses are realized, the Company may not be able to offset such losses within the carryback or carryforward period or from future realized capital gains, in which case the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The failure to utilize
the deferred tax asset could materially increase BlackRock's income tax expense.        The soundness of other financial institutions could
adversely affect BlackRock.        Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other
relationships. BlackRock, and the products and accounts that it manages, have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and
dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose BlackRock or the funds and accounts that it manages to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or
client. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely impact BlackRock s revenues and earnings.       The
failure or negative performance of products of other financial institutions could lead to reduced AUM in similar products of BlackRock without regard to the performance of BlackRock s products.        The failure or negative performance of products of other financial institutions could lead to a loss of confidence in similar products of BlackRock
without regard to the performance of BlackRock s products. Such a negative contagion could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products and have a material adverse impact on our AUM, revenues and earnings.   
    Loss of key employees could lead to the loss of clients and a decline in revenues.        The ability to attract and retain quality personnel has contributed significantly to BlackRock s growth and success and is important to attracting and
retaining clients. The market for qualified fund managers, investment analysts, financial advisers and other professionals is competitive. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its efforts to recruit and retain required
personnel. Loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company.        BlackRock s investment advisory contracts may be
terminated or may not be renewed by clients and the liquidation of certain funds may be accelerated at the option of investors.        Separate account and commingled trust clients may terminate their investment management contracts with BlackRock or withdraw funds on short notice. The Company has, from time to time, lost separate accounts and could, in the future, lose
accounts or significant AUM under various circumstances such as adverse market conditions or poor performance.      Additionally, BlackRock
manages its U.S. mutual funds and exchanged traded funds under management contracts with the funds that must be renewed and approved by the funds  boards of directors annually. A majority of the directors of each mutual fund are independent
from BlackRock. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the board of directors of each fund managed by the Company will approve the fund s management contract each year, or will not condition its approval on the terms of the management
contract being revised in a way that is adverse to the Company .       Further, the governing agreements of many of the Company s
private investment funds generally provide that, subject to certain conditions, investors in those funds, and in some cases independent directors of those funds, may remove the investment adviser, general partner or the equivalent of the fund or
liquidate the fund without cause by a simple majority vote, resulting in a reduction in the management or performance fees as well as the total carried interest BlackRock could earn.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS (continued)            
     Failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or guidelines could result in damage
awards against BlackRock and loss of revenues due to client terminations.        When clients retain BlackRock to manage assets or provide
products or services on their behalf, they specify guidelines or contractual requirements that the Company is required to observe in the provision of its services. A failure to comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could result in
damage to BlackRock s reputation or in its clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their AUM or terminating their contracts, any of which could cause the Company s revenues and earnings to decline.        Competitive fee pressures could reduce revenues and profit margins.        The investment management business is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. To the extent that the Company is forced to compete on the basis of price, it may not be able to maintain
its current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could cause revenues and profit margins to decline.        Performance fees may increase earnings volatility, which could decrease BlackRock s stock price.        A portion of the
Company s revenues is derived from performance fees on investment and risk management advisory assignments. In most cases, performance fees are based on relative or absolute investment returns, although in some cases they are based on achieving
specific service standards. Generally, the Company is entitled to performance fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. If these targets are not exceeded, performance fees for that
period will not be earned and, if targets are based on cumulative returns, the Company may not earn performance fees in future periods. Performance fees will vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns and the timing
of revenue recognition, causing earnings to be more volatile. The volatility in earnings may decrease BlackRock s stock price. Performance fees represented $202 million, or 4%, of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009.
       Additional acquisitions may decrease earnings and harm the Company s competitive position.        BlackRock employs a variety of strategies intended to enhance earnings and expand product offerings in order to improve profit margins. These strategies
have included smaller-sized lift-outs of investment teams and acquisitions of investment management businesses, such as the MLIM, Quellos and BGI Transactions. These strategies may not be effective and failure to successfully develop and implement
these strategies may decrease earnings and harm the Company s competitive position in the investment management industry. In the event BlackRock pursues additional sizeable acquisitions, it may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire
at acceptable prices and it may not be able to successfully integrate or realize the intended benefits from such acquisitions.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS (continued)            
     Risks Related to BlackRock s Operations          Failure to maintain adequate infrastructure could impede BlackRock s productivity and growth.        The Company s infrastructure, including its technological capacity, data centers, backup facilities and office space, is vital to the competitiveness
of its business. The failure to maintain an adequate infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of its business, including any expansion, could impede the Company s productivity and growth, which could cause the Company s earnings
or stock price to decline.        Operating in international markets increases BlackRock s operational, regulatory and other risks.
       As a result of BlackRock s extensive international business activities, the Company faces increased operational, regulatory,
reputational and foreign exchange rate risks. The failure of the Company s systems of internal control to properly mitigate such additional risks, or of its operating infrastructure to support such international activities, could result in
operational failures and regulatory fines or sanctions, which could cause the Company s earnings or stock price to decline.        Failure to maintain a technological advantage could lead to a loss of clients and a decline in revenues.        A key element
to BlackRock s continued success is the ability to maintain a technological advantage both in terms of operational efficiency and in providing the sophisticated risk analytics incorporated into BlackRock s operating systems that support
investment advisory and  BlackRock Solutions  clients. Moreover, the Company s technological and software advantage is dependent on a number of third parties who provide various types of data. The failure of these third parties to provide
such data or software could result in operational difficulties and adversely impact BlackRock s ability to provide services to its investment advisory and  BlackRock Solutions  clients. There can be no assurance that the Company will be
able to maintain this technological advantage or be able to effectively protect and enforce its intellectual property rights in these systems and processes.        Failure to implement effective information security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial losses that could result in a decrease in BlackRock s
earnings or stock price.        BlackRock is dependent on the effectiveness of its information security policies, procedures and
capabilities to protect its computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. An externally caused information security incident, such as a hacker attack, virus or worm, or an internally caused
issue, such as failure to control access to sensitive systems, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information and could result in material financial loss, regulatory
actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, could cause a decline in the Company s earnings or stock price.        The failure of a key vendor to BlackRock to fulfill its obligations could have a material adverse effect on BlackRock and its products.        BlackRock depends on a number of key vendors for various fund administration, custody and transfer agent roles and other operational needs. The failure or
inability of BlackRock to diversify its sources for key services or the failure of any key vendors to fulfill their obligations could lead to operational issues in certain products, which could result in financial losses for the Company and its
clients.         
   29   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS (continued)            
     The continuing integration of the BGI business creates risks and uncertainties that could
adversely affect profitability.        The BGI business and personnel are in the process of being integrated with BlackRock s
previously existing business and personnel. These transition activities are complex and the Company may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs including:       

the diversion of management s attention to integration matters;          

difficulties in achieving expected synergies associated with the transaction;          

difficulties in the integration of operations and systems;          

difficulties in the assimilation of employees;          

challenges in keeping existing clients and obtaining new clients, including potential conflicts of interest and client imposed concentration limits on
the use of an investment manager; and          

challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel.         As a result, the Company may not be able to realize the expected revenue growth and other benefits that it hopes to achieve from the transaction. In addition, BlackRock may be required to spend additional
time or money on integration that would otherwise be spent on the development and expansion of its business and services.        Failure to
manage risks in operating securities lending for clients could lead to a loss of clients and a decline in revenues and liquidity        The
size of BlackRock s securities lending programs increased significantly with the completion of the BGI transaction. As part of these programs, BlackRock must manage risks associated with (i) ensuring that the value of the collateral held
against the securities on loan does not decline in value or become illiquid and that its nature and value complies with regulatory requirements, (ii) the potential that a borrower may not return a security on a timely basis, (iii) the
potential that the collateral held may not be sufficient to repurchase the loaned security, and (iv) errors in the settlement of securities, daily mark-to-market valuations and collateral collection. The failure of the Company s controls
to mitigate these risks could result in financial losses for our clients that participate in our securities lending programs as well as for the Company.        Risks Related to Relationships with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, PNC, Barclays and Other Institutional Investors          Merrill Lynch is an important distributor of BlackRock s products, and the Company is therefore subject to risks associated with the business of Merrill Lynch.        Under a global distribution agreement entered into with Merrill Lynch, Merrill Lynch provides distribution, portfolio administration and servicing for
certain BlackRock investment management products and services through its various distribution channels. The Company may not be successful in distributing products through Merrill Lynch or in distributing its products and services through other
third party distributors. If BlackRock is unable to distribute its products and services successfully or if it experiences an increase in distribution-related costs, BlackRock s business, results of operations or financial condition may be
adversely affected.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS (continued)            
     Loss of market share with Merrill Lynch s Global Wealth   Investment Management
business could harm operating results.        A significant portion of BlackRock s revenue has historically come from AUM generated by
Merrill Lynch s Global Wealth   Investment Management ( GWIM ) business. BlackRock s ability to maintain a strong relationship with GWIM is material to the Company s future performance. If one of the Company s
competitors gains significant additional market share within the GWIM retail channel at the expense of BlackRock, then BlackRock s business, results of operations or financial condition may be negatively impacted.        The failure of Barclays to fulfill its commitments, or the inadequacy of the support provided, under certain capital support agreements in favor of a
number of securities lending related cash management funds acquired in the BGI Transaction, could negatively impact such funds and BlackRock.        Barclays has provided capital support agreements to support certain securities lending related cash management products acquired by BlackRock in the BGI Transaction. The failure of Barclays to fulfill its obligations under these agreements,
or the inadequacy of the support provided, could cause our clients to suffer losses and BlackRock to suffer reputational and other adverse impacts. For a discussion on the capital support agreements see  Management, Discussion and Analysis
  Liquidity and Capital Resources   Barclays Support of Certain Securities Lending Related Cash Funds.         For so long as
Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, PNC and Barclays maintain certain levels of stock ownership, Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, PNC and Barclays will vote as stockholders in accordance with the recommendation of BlackRock s Board of Directors, and
certain actions will require special board approval or the prior approval of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, PNC and Barclays.        Bank of
America/Merrill Lynch, PNC and Barclays have agreed to vote all of their shares in accordance with the recommendation of BlackRock s Board of Directors to the extent consistent with the provisions of their respective stockholder agreements with
BlackRock. As a consequence, matters submitted to a stockholder vote that require a majority or a plurality of votes for approval, including elections of directors, will likely be approved or disapproved solely in accordance with the determinations
of the BlackRock Board of Directors, so long as the shares held by Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, PNC and Barclays constitute a substantial portion of the outstanding shares. This arrangement has the effect of concentrating control over BlackRock in
its Board of Directors, whether or not stockholders agree with any particular determination of the Board. At December 31, 2009, Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, PNC and Barclays owned approximately 3.7%, 35.2% and 4.8%, respectively, of
BlackRock s voting common stock.        The majority of our stock is held by a group of large shareholders. Future sales of our common
stock in the public market by us or our large stockholders could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.        As of
December 31, 2009, Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, PNC and Barclays owned 34.2%, 24.5% and 19.8% of our capital stock, respectively. In connection with the BGI Transaction, 16.4 million shares were sold to other institutional investors. We
have entered into registration rights agreements with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, PNC and Barclays, as well as the institutional investors who purchased shares of BlackRock capital stock in connection with the BGI Transaction. The registration
rights agreements, which include customary  piggyback  registration provisions, allow the respective stockholders to cause us to file one or more registration statements for the resale of their respective shares of capital stock and
cooperate in certain underwritten offerings. Sales by us or our large stockholders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market pursuant to registration rights or otherwise, or the perception that these sales might
occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS (continued)            
     Legal and Regulatory Risks          BlackRock is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and internationally.        BlackRock s business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and around the world. See the discussion under the heading  Business
  Regulation.  Violation of applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, temporary or permanent prohibition of the engagement in certain activities, reputational harm, suspensions of personnel or revocation of their licenses,
suspension or termination of investment adviser or broker-dealer registrations, or other sanctions, which could cause the Company s earnings or stock price to decline.        BlackRock may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes in the United States and internationally.        Recent market disruptions have led to numerous proposals in the United States and internationally for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry. New laws or regulations, or changes in
enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could adversely impact the scope or profitability of BlackRock s business activities, could require BlackRock to change certain business practices and could expose BlackRock to additional costs
(including increased capital, compliance and tax costs) as well as reputational harm. Regulatory changes could also lead to business disruptions, could adversely impact the value of assets in which BlackRock has invested directly and on behalf of
clients, and, to the extent the regulations strictly control the activities of financial services firms, could make it more difficult for BlackRock to conduct certain businesses or to distinguish itself from competitors.        Failure to comply with the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act and related regulations could result in substantial harm to BlackRock s
reputation and results of operations.        Certain BlackRock subsidiaries are registered with the SEC under the Advisers Act and
BlackRock s U.S. mutual funds are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations and fiduciary duties on registered investment advisers, including record-keeping, operating and marketing
requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act imposes similar obligations, as well as additional detailed operational requirements, on investment advisers to registered investment
companies. The failure of any of BlackRock s subsidiaries to comply with the Advisers Act or the Investment Company Act could cause the SEC to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of either of these acts, including censure,
termination of an investment adviser s registration or prohibition to serve as adviser to SEC-registered funds, and could lead to litigation by investors in those funds or harm to the Company s reputation, any of which could cause its
earnings or stock price to decline.        Failure to comply with ERISA regulations could result in penalties and cause the Company s
earnings or stock price to decline.        Certain BlackRock subsidiaries are subject to ERISA and to regulations promulgated thereunder,
insofar as they act as a  fiduciary  under ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit specified transactions
involving ERISA plan clients and provide monetary penalties for violations of these prohibitions. The failure of any of the relevant subsidiaries to comply with these requirements could result in significant penalties that could reduce the
Company s earnings or cause its stock price to decline.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS (continued)            
     BlackRock is subject to banking regulations that may limit its business activities.
       Because the total equity ownership interest of each of Bank of America and PNC in BlackRock exceeds 25% on an economic or voting
basis, BlackRock is deemed to be a non-bank subsidiary of each of Bank of America and PNC, which are both financial holding companies under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. As a non-bank subsidiary of Bank of America and PNC,
BlackRock is subject to banking regulation, including the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve. Such banking regulation limits the activities and the types of businesses that BlackRock may conduct. The Federal Reserve has broad
enforcement authority over BlackRock, including the power to prohibit BlackRock from conducting any activity that, in the Federal Reserve s opinion, is unauthorized or constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting BlackRock s
business, and to impose substantial fines and other penalties for violations. Any failure of either Bank of America or PNC to maintain its status as a financial holding company could result in substantial limitations on certain BlackRock activities
and its growth. In addition, BlackRock s trust bank subsidiary is subject to regulation by the OCC parallel in many respects to that imposed under the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act as described above and to capital requirements
established by the OCC. The OCC has broad enforcement authority over BlackRock s trust bank subsidiary. Being subject to banking regulation may put BlackRock at a competitive disadvantage because most of its competitors are not subject to these
limitations.        Failure to comply with laws and regulations in the United Kingdom, other member states of the European Union, Hong Kong,
Japan, Australia and other non-U.S. jurisdictions in which BlackRock operates could result in substantial harm to BlackRock s reputation and results of operations.        The Financial Services Authority (the  FSA ) regulates BlackRock s subsidiaries in the United Kingdom. Authorization by the FSA is required to conduct any financial services-related
business in the United Kingdom under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The FSA s rules govern a firm s capital resources requirements, senior management arrangements, conduct of business, interaction with clients and systems and
controls. Breaches of these rules may result in a wide range of disciplinary actions against the Company s U.K.-regulated subsidiaries.      In addition, these subsidiaries, and other European subsidiaries, branches or representative offices, must comply with the pan-European regime established by the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, which regulates the provision of
investment services throughout the European Economic Area, as well as the Capital Requirements Directive, which delineates regulatory capital requirements.      In Japan, certain BlackRock subsidiaries are subject to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (the  FIEL ) and the Law Concerning Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations. These laws
are administered and enforced by the Japanese Financial Services Agency (the  JFSA ), which establishes standards for compliance, including capital adequacy and financial soundness requirements, customer protection requirements and conduct
of business rules. The JFSA is empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease and desist orders or the suspension or revocation of registrations and licenses granted under the FIEL.
     In Australia, BlackRock s subsidiaries are subject to various Australian federal and state laws and certain subsidiaries are regulated
by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (the  ASIC ) and the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority. The ASIC regulates companies and financial services in Australia and is responsible for promoting investor, creditor
and consumer protection. Failure to comply with applicable law and regulations could result in the cancellation, suspension or variation of the relevant subsidiaries  licenses in Australia.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS (continued)            
   The activities of certain BlackRock subsidiaries in Hong Kong are subject to the Securities and Futures
Ordinance (the  SFO ) which governs the securities and futures markets and the non-bank retail leveraged foreign exchange market in Hong Kong. The SFO is administered by the Securities and Futures Commission (the  SFC ), an
independent non-governmental body. The relevant subsidiaries, and certain individuals representing them, which conduct business in any of the regulated activities specified in the SFO are generally required to be registered or licensed with the SFC,
and are subject to the rules, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC from time to time.      There are parallel legal and regulatory arrangements
in force in many other non-U.S. jurisdictions where BlackRock s subsidiaries conduct business or where the funds and products it manages are organized. Failure to comply with laws and regulations in any of these jurisdictions could result in
substantial harm to BlackRock s reputation and results of operation.        Legal proceedings could adversely affect operating results
and financial condition for a particular period.        Many aspects of BlackRock s business involve substantial risks of legal
liability. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have been named as defendants in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation arising in connection with BlackRock s activities. From time to time,
BlackRock receives subpoenas or other requests for information from various U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and regulatory authorities in connection with certain industry-wide or other investigations or proceedings. Additionally, certain of the
investment funds that the Company manages are subject to lawsuits, any of which could potentially harm the investment returns of the applicable fund or result in the Company being liable to the funds for any resulting damages.        The legislative and economic effects of climate change could impact investment strategies and the value of assets that BlackRock manages.   
     BlackRock invests in a variety of sectors on behalf of its clients. To the extent certain of these sectors are negatively impacted by climate
change or legislation or international agreements related to climate change, the value of, and the returns realized on, the related AUM could decrease or cause clients to withdraw funds in favor of products in sectors that BlackRock may not offer.
        
   34   

Table of Contents  

Item 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS         The Company
has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff relating to BlackRock s periodic or current reports filed with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act of 1934.       

Item 2.   
   PROPERTIES         BlackRock s principal
office, which is leased, is located at 55 East 52nd Street, New York, New York. BlackRock leases additional office space in New York City at 40 East 52nd Street and throughout the world, including Boston, Chicago, Edinburgh, Florham Park (New
Jersey), Hong Kong, London, Melbourne, Munich, Plainsboro (New Jersey), San Francisco, Seattle, Singapore, Sydney and Tokyo. The Company also owns an 84,500 square foot office building in Wilmington (Delaware).       

Item 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         From time to time,
BlackRock receives subpoenas or other requests for information from various U.S. federal, state governmental and regulatory authorities in connection with certain industry-wide or other investigations or proceedings. It is BlackRock s policy to
fully cooperate with such inquiries. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have been named as defendants in various legal actions, including arbitrations and other litigation arising in connection with BlackRock s activities.
Additionally, certain of the investment funds that the Company manages are subject to lawsuits, any of which could potentially harm the investment returns of the applicable fund or result in the Company being liable to the funds for any resulting
damages.      Management, after consultation with legal counsel, currently does not anticipate that the aggregate liability, if any, arising out
of regulatory matters or lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on BlackRock s earnings, financial position, or cash flows although, at the present time, management is not in a position to determine whether any such pending or threatened
matters will have a material adverse effect on BlackRock s results of operations in any future reporting period.       

Item 4.   
   RESERVED            
   35   

Table of Contents  

    Part II        

Item 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES         BlackRock s common stock is listed on the NYSE and is traded under the symbol  BLK . At the close of business on January 31, 2010, there
were 441 common stockholders of record. Common stockholders include institutional or omnibus accounts that hold common stock for multiple underlying investors.      The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low reported sale prices, period-end closing prices for the common stock and dividends declared per share for the common stock as
reported on the NYSE:       
    BlackRock s closing common stock
price as of March 5, 2010 was $219.83.        Dividends        On February 25, 2010, the Board of Directors approved an increase of BlackRock s quarterly dividend to $1.00 to be paid on March 23, 2010 to
stockholders of record on March 8, 2010.      Barclays, Merrill Lynch, PNC and their respective affiliates along with other institutional
investors receive dividends on the non-voting participating preferred stock that they hold equivalent to the dividends received by common stockholders.         
   36   

Table of Contents  

Item 5.   
   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES (continued)            
     Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities        During the three months ended December 31, 2009, the Company made the following purchases of its common stock, which is registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.       

1     
    Reflects purchases made by the Company primarily to satisfy income tax withholding obligations of employees and members of our Board of Directors
related to the vesting of certain restricted stock or restricted stock unit awards. All such purchases were made outside of the publicly announced share repurchase program.      

2     
    On August 2, 2006, the Company announced a 2.1 million share repurchase program with no stated expiration date.      
     
   37   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA         The selected
financial data presented below has been derived in part from, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements of BlackRock and Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations  included in this Form 10-K. Prior year data reflects certain reclassifications to conform to the current year presentation.       
       
   38   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (continued)            

2     
    Includes a 2006 fee sharing payment to MetLife, Inc. representing a one-time expense related to a large institutional real estate equity client account
acquired in the SSR Transaction.      

3   
        Includes all other
operating expenses.      

4     
    Includes both redeemable and nonredeemable non-controlling interests.      

5   
        Series A, B, C and
D non-voting participating preferred stock is considered to be a common stock equivalent for purposes of earnings per share calculations.      

6   
        Total BlackRock
stockholders  equity divided by total common and preferred shares outstanding at December 31 of the respective year-end.      

8   
        Equal and
offsetting amounts, related to separate account assets which are segregated funds held for purposes of funding individual and group pension contracts and collateral held under securities lending agreements related to these assets, are recorded in
liabilities.      

9   
        Advisory AUM
represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.            
   39   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS           Forward-looking Statements        This report, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRock s future financial or business performance,
strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as  trend,   potential,   opportunity,   pipeline,   believe,   comfortable, 
 expect,   anticipate,   current,   intention,   estimate,   position,   assume,   outlook,   continue,   remain,   maintain, 
 sustain,   seek,   achieve,  and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as  will,   would,   should,   could,   may  or similar expressions.
     BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking
statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.      In addition to risk factors previously disclosed in
BlackRock s Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) reports and those identified elsewhere in this report the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or
historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes and volatility in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment, foreign exchange
rates or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock s investment products;
(4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of capital improvement projects; (6) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (7) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (8) the extent and timing
of any share repurchases; (9) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property protection; (10) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms and regulatory, supervisory or
enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock, Barclays PLC, Bank of America Corporation, Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. or The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.; (11) terrorist activities and international hostilities,
which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries or BlackRock; (12) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (13) fluctuations in the carrying
value of BlackRock s investments; (14) the impact of changes to tax legislation and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (15) BlackRock s success in maintaining the distribution of its products; (16) the impact of
BlackRock electing to provide support to its products from time to time; (17) the impact of problems at other financial institutions or the failure or negative performance of products at other financial institutions; and (18) the ability
of BlackRock to integrate the operations of Barclays Global Investors.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            
     Overview        BlackRock, Inc. ( BlackRock  or the  Company ) is the largest publicly traded investment management firm which as of
December 31, 2009 managed $3.346 trillion of assets under management ( AUM ) on behalf of institutional and individual investors worldwide. The Company s products include equities, fixed income, multi-asset class, alternatives
and cash management, and offer clients diversified access to global markets through separate accounts, common trust funds, mutual funds, exchange traded funds, hedge funds, and closed-end funds. In addition,  BlackRock Solutions       provides market risk management, financial markets advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad
base of clients. Financial markets advisory services include valuation of illiquid securities, dispositions and workout assignments (including long-term portfolio liquidation assignments), risk management and strategic planning and execution.
     On September 29, 2006, Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. ( Merrill Lynch ) contributed the entities and assets that
constituted its investment management business, Merrill Lynch Investment Managers ( MLIM ), to BlackRock in exchange for common and non-voting preferred stock such that immediately after such closing Merrill Lynch held approximately 45% of
BlackRock s common stock outstanding and approximately 49.3% of the Company s capital stock on a fully diluted basis (the  MLIM Transaction ). On October 1, 2007, BlackRock acquired certain assets and assumed certain
liabilities of the fund of funds business of Quellos Group, LLC ( Quellos ) for up to $1.719 billion in a combination of cash and common stock (the  Quellos Transaction ).      On January 1, 2009, Bank of America Corporation ( Bank of America ) acquired Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. ( Merrill Lynch ).
In connection with this transaction, BlackRock entered into exchange agreements with each of Merrill Lynch and The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ( PNC ) pursuant to which each agreed to exchange a portion of the BlackRock voting
common stock they held for non-voting preferred stock.      On December 1, 2009, BlackRock acquired from Barclays Bank PLC
( Barclays ) all of the outstanding equity interests of subsidiaries of Barclays conducting the business of Barclays Global Investors ( BGI ) in exchange for capital shares valued at closing of $8.53 billion and $6.65 billion in
cash, both of which are subject to certain adjustments.      As of December 31, 2009, equity ownership of BlackRock was as follows:

41   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Overview (continued)           
   The following table summarizes BlackRock s operating performance for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:       BlackRock, Inc.        Financial Highlights        (Dollar amounts in millions,
except per share data)        
         NM   Not Meaningful        

1     
    Includes net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (redeemable and nonredeemable) related to investment and non-investment
activities.            
   42   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Overview (continued)           
   BlackRock reports its financial results on a GAAP basis; however, management believes
that evaluating the Company s ongoing operating results may be enhanced if investors have additional non-GAAP basis financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and, for the reasons described
below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock s financial performance over time. BlackRock s management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in
isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.      Certain prior period non-GAAP
data has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Computations for all periods are derived from the Company s consolidated statements of income as follows:       

(a)   
   Operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted:         Operating income, as adjusted, equals operating income, GAAP basis, excluding certain items deemed non-recurring by management or transactions that ultimately will not impact BlackRock s book value,
as indicated in the table below. Operating income used for operating margin measurement equals operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Operating margin, as adjusted, equals operating
income used for operating margin measurement, divided by revenue used for operating margin measurement, as indicated in the table below.       
       
   43   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Overview (continued)           

    BlackRock, Inc.        Financial Highlights        (continued)          

(a)  
  (continued)           
   Management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as
adjusted, are effective indicators of BlackRock s financial performance over time. As such, management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, provide useful disclosure to investors.       Operating income, as adjusted:       Restructuring charges recorded in 2008 and 2009 consist of compensation costs, occupancy costs and professional fees. MLIM and Quellos integration costs recorded in 2007 consist principally of certain
professional fees, rebranding costs and compensation costs incurred in conjunction with these integrations. BGI transaction/integration costs recorded in 2009 consist principally of certain advisory fees, compensation expense, legal fees and
consulting expenses incurred in conjunction with the BGI transaction. The expenses associated with: (i) the 2008 and 2009 restructuring, (ii) BGI transaction and integration costs, (iii) MLIM and Quellos integration costs and
(iv) the 2007 termination of the closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements with Merrill Lynch have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from operating income, as adjusted, to help enhance the
comparability of this information to prior periods. As such, management believes that operating margins exclusive of these costs are useful measures in evaluating BlackRock s operating performance for the respective periods.      The portion of compensation expense associated with certain long-term incentive plans ( LTIP ) that will be funded through the
distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and a Merrill Lynch cash compensation contribution, a portion of which has been received, have been excluded because these charges ultimately do not impact BlackRock s book
value.      Compensation expense associated with appreciation (depreciation) on assets related to certain BlackRock deferred
compensation plans has been excluded as returns on investments set aside for these plans, which substantially offset this expense, are reported in non-operating income.       Operating margin, as adjusted:       Operating income used for measuring
operating margin, as adjusted, is equal to operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Management believes that excluding such costs and commissions is useful because these costs can fluctuate
considerably and revenues associated with the expenditure of these costs will not fully impact the Company s results until future periods.      Operating margin, as adjusted, allows the Company to compare performance from period-to-period by adjusting for items that may not recur, recur infrequently or may fluctuate based on market movements,
such as restructuring charges, transaction/integration costs, closed-end fund launch costs and fluctuations in compensation expense based on mark-to-market movements in investments held to fund certain compensation plans. The Company also uses
operating margin, as adjusted, to monitor corporate performance and efficiency and as a benchmark to compare its performance to other companies. Management uses both the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures in evaluating the financial performance
for BlackRock. The non-GAAP measure by itself may pose limitations because it does not include all of the Company s revenues and expenses.      Revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, excludes distribution and servicing costs paid to related parties and to other third parties. Management believes that excluding such costs is useful to
BlackRock because it creates consistency in the treatment for certain contracts for similar services, which due to the terms of the contracts, are accounted under GAAP on a net basis within investment advisory, administration fees and securities
lending revenue. Amortization of deferred mutual fund sales commissions is excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because such costs, over time, offset distribution fee revenue earned by the Company. Reimbursable
property management compensation represented compensation and benefits paid to personnel of Metric Property Management, Inc. ( Metric ), a subsidiary of BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ( Realty ). Prior to the transfer in 2008,
these employees were retained on Metric s payroll when certain properties were acquired by Realty s clients. The related compensation and benefits were fully reimbursed by Realty s clients and have been excluded from revenue used for
operating margin, as adjusted, because they did not bear an economic cost to BlackRock. For each of these items, BlackRock excludes from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, the costs related to each of these items as a proxy for such
offsetting revenues.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Overview (continued)           

    BlackRock, Inc.        Financial Highlights        (continued)          

(b)   
   Non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted:         Non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests ( NCI ), as adjusted, equals
non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis, less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, GAAP basis, adjusted for compensation expense associated with depreciation (appreciation) on assets related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans. The
compensation expense offset is recorded in operating income. This compensation expense has been included in non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, to offset returns on investments set aside for these
plans, which are reported in non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis.       

1     
    Includes net income (loss) attributable to NCI (redeemable and nonredeemable) related to investment and non-investment activities.
        Management believes that non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to
non-controlling interests, as adjusted, provides for comparability of this information to prior periods and is an effective measure for reviewing BlackRock s non-operating contribution to its results. As compensation expense associated with
depreciation (appreciation) on assets related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans, which is included in operating income, offsets the gain/(loss) on the investments set aside for these plans, management believes that non-operating
income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, provides a useful measure, for both management and investors, of BlackRock s non-operating results that impact book value.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Overview (continued)           

    BlackRock, Inc.        Financial Highlights        (continued)          

(c)   
   Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted:         Management believes that net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, and diluted earnings per common share, as adjusted, are useful measures of BlackRock s profitability and financial
performance. Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, equals net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., GAAP basis, adjusted for significant non-recurring items as well as charges that ultimately will not impact BlackRock s
book value.       
    The restructuring charges and the BGI, MLIM and Quellos integration costs reflected in GAAP net income
attributable to BlackRock, Inc. have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, to help enhance the comparability of this information to prior reporting periods.
     The portion of the compensation expense associated with LTIP awards that will be funded through the distribution to
participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and the Merrill Lynch cash compensation contribution, a portion of which has been received, have been excluded from net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, because these charges
ultimately do not impact BlackRock s book value. The termination of the closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements with Merrill Lynch has been excluded from net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, as the
termination of the arrangements is deemed non-recurring by management.      During third quarter 2009, legislation was enacted
primarily with respect to New York City corporate income taxes, effective January 1, 2009, which resulted in a revaluation of deferred income tax assets and liabilities. The resulting decrease in income taxes has been excluded from net income
attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, as it is non-recurring, it does not ultimately impact cash flows and to enhance comparability to prior reporting periods.       
  
   46   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Overview (continued)           

    BlackRock, Inc.        Financial Highlights        (continued)          

(c)   
   Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted (continued):          
  
   During third quarter 2007, the United Kingdom and Germany enacted legislation reducing
corporate income taxes, effective in April and January of 2008, respectively, which resulted in a revaluation of certain deferred tax liabilities. The resulting decrease in income taxes has been excluded from net income, as adjusted, as it is
non-recurring, it does not ultimately impact cash flows and to enhance comparability to current and prior reporting periods.       

(e)  
  Series A, B, C and D non-voting participating preferred stock are considered to be common stock equivalents for purposes of determining basic and diluted earnings per
share calculations. Certain unvested restricted stock units are not included in this number as they are deemed participating securities in accordance with required provisions of Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) 260-10,  Earnings
per Share  ( ASC 260-10 ).     

(f)  
  Allocation of net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, to common shares and participating RSUs is calculated pursuant to the two-class method as defined
in ASC 260-10.           
   47   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Overview (continued)           
   BlackRock has portfolio managers located around the world, including the United States, the United
Kingdom, the Netherlands, Japan, Hong Kong, Australia and Germany. The Company provides a wide array of taxable and tax-exempt fixed income, equity and balanced investment funds, including exchange traded funds and mutual funds, and separate
accounts, as well as a wide assortment of index-based equity and alternative investment products for a diverse global clientele. BlackRock provides global advisory services for investment funds and other non-U.S. equivalent retail products. The
Company s non-U.S. mutual funds are based in a number of domiciles and cover a range of asset classes, including cash management, fixed income and equities. The BlackRock Global Funds, the Company s primary retail fund group offered
outside the United States, are authorized for distribution in more than 35 jurisdictions worldwide. In the United States, the primary retail offerings include various open-end and closed-end funds. Additional fund offerings include structured
products, real estate funds, hedge funds, hedge funds of funds, private equity funds and funds of funds, managed futures funds and exchange funds. These products are sold to both U.S. and non-U.S. high net worth, retail and institutional investors
in a wide variety of active and passive strategies covering both equity and fixed income assets.      BlackRock s client base consists of
financial institutions and other corporate clients, pension funds, high net worth individuals and retail investors around the world. BlackRock maintains a significant sales and marketing presence both inside and outside the United States that is
focused on establishing and maintaining retail and institutional investment management relationships by marketing its services to retail and institutional investors directly and through financial professionals, pension consultants and establishing
third-party distribution relationships. BlackRock also distributes its products and services through Merrill Lynch under a global distribution agreement, which, following Bank of America s acquisition of Merrill Lynch, runs through January
2014. After such term, the agreement will renew for one automatic three-year extension if certain conditions are met. See Note 17, Related Party Transactions, to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.
     BlackRock derives a substantial portion of its revenue from investment advisory and administration fees, which are recognized as the services
are performed. Such fees are primarily based on pre-determined percentages of the market value of AUM, percentages of committed capital during investment periods of certain alternative products, or, in the case of certain real estate equity clients,
net operating income generated by the underlying properties, and are affected by changes in AUM, including market appreciation or depreciation, foreign exchange gains or losses and net subscriptions or redemptions. Net subscriptions or redemptions
represent the sum of new client assets, additional fundings from existing clients (including dividend reinvestment), withdrawals of assets from, and termination of, client accounts, purchases and redemptions of investment fund shares and
distributions to investors representing return of capital and return on investments to investors. Market appreciation or depreciation includes current income earned on, and changes in the fair value of, securities held in client accounts.
     BlackRock also earns revenue by lending securities on behalf of clients, primarily to brokerage institutions. Such revenues are accounted for
on an accrual basis. The security loans are secured by collateral in the form of cash and securities, ranging from approximately 102% to 108% of the value of the loaned securities. The net income earned on the collateral is shared between BlackRock
and the funds or other third-party accounts managed by the Company from which the securities are borrowed.      Investment advisory agreements for
certain separate accounts and BlackRock s alternative investment products provide for performance fees, based upon relative and/or absolute investment performance, in addition to base fees based on AUM. Investment advisory performance fees
generally are earned after a given period of time and when investment performance exceeds a contractual threshold. As such, the timing of recognition of performance fees may increase the volatility of BlackRock s revenue and earnings.
        
   48   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Overview (continued)           
   BlackRock provides a variety of risk management, investment analytic and investment system and advisory
services to financial institutions, pension funds, asset managers, foundations, consultants, mutual fund sponsors, real estate investment trusts and government agencies. These services are provided under the brand name  BlackRock Solutions  and
include a wide array of risk management services, valuation services related to illiquid securities, disposition and workout assignments (including long-term portfolio liquidation assignments), strategic planning and execution, and enterprise
investment system outsourcing to clients. Fees earned for  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory services are determined using some, or all, of the following methods: (i) fixed fees, (ii) percentages of various attributes of advisory
assets under management and (iii) performance fees if contractual thresholds are met.      The Company also earns fees for transition
management services comprised of referral fees or agency commissions from acting as an introducing broker-dealer in buying and selling securities on behalf of its customers. Commissions and related clearing expenses related to transition management
services are recorded on a trade-date basis as securities transactions occur.      Operating expenses reflect employee compensation and benefits,
distribution and servicing costs, amortization of deferred mutual fund sales commissions, direct fund expenses, general and administration expenses and amortization of finite-lived intangible assets.       

Employee compensation and benefits expense reflects salaries, commissions, deferred and incentive compensation, employer payroll taxes and related
benefit costs.          

Distribution and servicing costs include payments made to Merrill Lynch-affiliated entities under a global distribution agreement and to PNC-affiliated
entities, as well as other third parties, primarily associated with the distribution and servicing of client investments in certain BlackRock products.          

Direct fund expenses consist primarily of third party non-advisory expenses incurred by BlackRock related to certain funds for the use of certain index
trademarks, reference data for certain indices, custodial services, fund administration, fund accounting, transfer agent services, shareholder reporting services, legal expenses, audit and tax services as well as other fund related expenses directly
attributable to the non-advisory operations of the fund. These expenses may vary over time with fluctuations in AUM, number of shareholder accounts, or other attributes directly related to volume of business.         BlackRock holds investments primarily in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including private equity, distressed
credit/mortgage debt securities, hedge funds and real estate. Investments generally are made for co-investment purposes, to establish a performance track record, to hedge exposure to certain deferred compensation plans, or for regulatory purposes.
Non-operating income (expense) and other comprehensive income for available-for-sale investments includes the impact of changes in the valuations or pick up of equity method earnings of these investments, as well as interest income and interest
expense.         
   49   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            
     Assets Under Management        AUM for reporting purposes is generally based upon how investment advisory and administration fees are calculated for each portfolio. Net asset values, total
assets, committed assets or other measures may be used to determine portfolio AUM.       BlackRock, Inc.        Assets Under Management   1            By Asset Class        
         NM   Not Meaningful        

1     
    Data reflects the reclassification of AUM into the current period presentation.      

2   
        Advisory AUM
represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.            
   50   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Assets Under Management (continued)           
    BlackRock, Inc.        Mix of Assets Under Management        By Asset Class   1            

1     
    Data reflects the reclassification of AUM into the current period presentation.      

2     
    Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.         AUM increased approximately $2.039 trillion, or 156%, to $3.346 trillion at December 31, 2009, compared to $1.307 trillion at December 31, 2008. The growth in AUM was primarily attributable to
$1.849 trillion acquired in the BGI Transaction, $1 billion acquired from R3 Capital Management, LLC, $145 billion in net market appreciation and foreign exchange movements, $82 billion of net subscriptions in long-dated mandates, $12 billion of net
new business in advisory assignments offset by $49 billion of outflows in cash management products. Net market appreciation of $144 billion included $104 billion of net appreciation in equity products due to an increase in global equity markets, $29
billion in fixed income products due to current income and changes in interest rate spreads and $16 billion in multi-asset class products, offset by $5 billion market depreciation in alternative products, primarily in real estate products.
        
   51   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Assets Under Management (continued)           
   The following table presents the component changes in BlackRock s AUM for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.       BlackRock, Inc.        Component Changes in Assets Under Management        
        NM   Not Meaningful       

1     
    Includes distributions representing return of capital and return of investment to investors.      

2     
    Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.      

3     
    Includes AUM acquired from Barclays in December 2009, R3 Capital Management, LLC in April 2009 and Quellos Group, LLC in October 2007 and acquisition
adjustments to conform to current period combined AUM policy.      

4     
    Foreign exchange reflects the impact of converting non-U.S. dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.
        BlackRock has historically grown aggregate AUM through organic growth and acquisitions. Management believes that the
Company will be able to continue to grow AUM by focusing on strong investment performance and client service and by developing new products and new distribution capabilities.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Assets Under Management (continued)           
   The following table presents the component changes in BlackRock s AUM
   1    by product type during 2009.       

1     
    Data reflects the reclassification of AUM into the current period presentation.      

2     
    Includes distributions representing return of capital and return on investment to investors.      

3     
    Includes AUM acquired from Barclays in December 2009 and R3 Capital Management, LLC in April 2009 and acquisition adjustments to conform to current
period combined AUM policy.      

4     
    Foreign exchange reflects the impact of converting non-U.S. dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.

5     
    Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.           Business Outlook        The Company began 2010 with a substantially increased AUM base as a result of the BGI Transaction and strong market and organic growth in 2009. At the same time, domestic and international markets continue to be volatile as a result of
investor concerns that the global economy is weaker than investors expected. The U.S. housing market, employment levels, debt levels in European nations and the stability of certain foreign currencies are heightening investor anxiety in the early
part of 2010. The timing and direction of these volatile markets, investment performance and the level of new client asset flows will have a direct impact on the Company s revenue. With the BGI Transaction, the Company offers an expanded range
of products with investment objectives to track various indices and others that target returns in excess of specified benchmarks as well as liquidity funds. Consequently, BlackRock should be well positioned to meet these challenges, as well as
navigate the following issues that may also impact the Company s results in 2010:       

The levels of institutional liquidity assets may continue to decline from year-end levels. These assets are expected to be redeployed to direct
investment, bank deposits or longer-dated strategies as market conditions stabilize. The Company s diversified global product offerings, client service and independent advice may enable it to retain a portion of these assets.

Additionally, as investors shift their preferences between active and passive investment styles, the Company s broad active and passive product
profile ability should enable it to retain and capture AUM as it has a wide array of offerings in both product styles.            
   53   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Business Outlook (continued)           

The regulatory environment is evolving for financial institutions. The SEC has enacted reforms to Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act, governing
money market funds with the intent to protect the industry and our clients. The SEC indicated there is likely to be a second round of changes governing money market funds. These changes, should they be enacted, may affect the margins of the money
market industry and may affect industry participants differently depending on scale. Other financial services reforms may favor the separation of fiduciary management and banking activities from proprietary investing. BlackRock acts as an
independent asset manager and does not engage in proprietary trading or deposit taking activities.          

The liquidity crunch and associated market disruption gave rise to greater demand for our advisory services, combining our extensive capital markets
and structuring expertise with rigorous modeling and analytical capabilities. While the demand for these services remained high through the volatile markets, demand for short-term advisory services may decline as market concerns ease. A meaningful
percentage of  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenues in 2009 was composed of one-time advisory and portfolio structuring fees. At the same time, as markets have stabilized, we have seen clients investing in longer-term risk and systems
solutions.          

A return to higher market levels may enable the Company s alternative investment products with absolute return objectives to contribute additional
performance fee revenue. However, such fees are dependent on achieving investor  high water marks .          

The global exchange traded funds market is expected to continue to grow. BlackRock has a large array of products and assets under management in this
market. As a first mover in several products, many of the iShares products have achieved a critical mass, providing both liquidity to investors and minimizing the difference between the unit exchange traded market values and the underlying unit net
asset values. As additional asset managers enter the marketplace to offer exchange traded funds, the Company s market share may decline even while the overall market grows.          

The Company will continue to assess the appropriateness of its cost structure as it integrates BGI. The Company may decide to take additional measures
to reduce costs. The benefits of any cost reduction measures may be realized over time and may or may not require upfront costs.          

At the same time, the Company plans to invest in future growth opportunities. There may be opportunities where the cost in the current period will
precede the expected future revenue.          

Certain costs, such as direct fund expenses and cash incentive compensation, will tend to move in line with revenue. As stock awards are expensed
subsequent to their grant date, the associated expense will not vary with future revenues. The stock awards related to 2009 performance will be expensed in 2010 and subsequent years.          

Real estate costs are expected to increase. We leased new space, most notably in London, on which we will begin incurring rent expense even though we
will not move into that space until it is fully built out in 2011. The Company has not completed analyzing its requirements in all other locations impacted by the acquisition of BGI.          

Marketing expenses, including travel and entertainment, are expected to increase to levels which reflect our increased client base, a more
geographically diverse firm and additional client opportunities.          

The effective tax rate of the Company is affected, among other things, by the geographic distribution of earnings and global changes in tax
legislation, including efforts by governments to raise taxes to reduce projected deficits. The effective tax rate may vary from period to period as a result of these factors.            
   54   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            
     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared with the
year ended December 31, 2008         Revenue        
         NM   Not Meaningful       Total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $364 million, or 7%, to $4,700
million, compared with $5,064 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes $312 million of incremental revenue related to the BGI acquisition. The $364 million decrease was the
result of a $431 million decrease in total investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue, a $39 million decrease in distribution fees and a $3 million decrease in other revenue, offset by an $84 million increase in
 BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenue and a $25 million increase in performance fees.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 200   9,    as
compared with the year ended December 31, 2008 (continued)           

    Revenue (continued)          
     Investment Advisory, Administration Fees and Securities Lending Revenue   
     Investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 included approximately $278
million of fees related to the BGI acquisition. The decrease in investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenues of $431 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared with the year ended December 31, 2008
consisted of decreases of $357 million in active equity products, $40 million in multi-asset class products, $141 million in alternative investment products, $7 million in active fixed income products and $83 million in cash management products
primarily associated with a market driven reduction in average AUM for equity, multi-asset class and alternative products and net redemptions in cash management products. The decrease is offset by a $164 million increase in equity index products and
a $33 million increase in fixed income index products primarily related to products acquired in the BGI acquisition.        Performance Fees        Investment advisory performance fees increased $25 million, or 14%, to $202 million for the year ended
December 31, 2009, as compared to $177 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, primarily due to an increase in performance fees in alternative equity hedge funds, fixed income and multi-asset class separate accounts, offset by a
decrease in international equity separate accounts. The year ended December 31, 2009 included $24 million of performance fees related to the BGI acquisition.        BlackRock Solutions and Advisory         BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenue
for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $84 million, or 21%, compared with the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenue was primarily the result of additional advisory assignments
during the period, as well as additional Aladdin and risk management mandates. Revenue earned on advisory assignments was comprised of advisory and portfolio structuring assignment fees and ongoing fees based on AUM of the respective portfolio
assignments.        Distribution Fees        Distribution fees decreased $39 million to $100 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $139 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in distribution fees
was primarily the result of lower sales, redemptions and AUM in certain share classes of open-end mutual funds.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 200   9,    as
compared with the year ended December 31, 2008 (continued)           

    Revenue (continued)          
     Other Revenue         
         NM   Not Meaningful        

(1)     
    Related to operating and advisory company investments.         Other revenue of $95 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $3 million, or 3%, compared with the year ended December 31, 2008. Other revenue for the year ended December 31,
2009 included $10 million of incremental revenue related to the operations of BGI.      The decrease in other revenue was primarily the result of
a $31 million decline in property management fees primarily related to the outsourcing in the fourth quarter of 2008 of Metric contracts with BlackRock real estate clients, partially offset by a $14 million increase in BlackRock s share of
underlying earnings from certain operating and advisory company investments and a $9 million increase in fees earned for transition management services.         
   57   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2008 (continued)           
    Expenses        
         NM   Not Meaningful        

(1)     
    Adjusted for BGI integration costs, PNC LTIP funding obligation, Merrill Lynch compensation cash contribution and compensation expense related to
appreciation (depreciation) on certain deferred compensation plans.         Total GAAP expenses decreased $49 million, or 1%, to
$3,422 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $3,471 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Excluding certain items deemed non-recurring by management or transactions that ultimately will not effect the
Company s book value, total expenses, as adjusted, decreased $272 million, or 8%. The decrease in total expenses, as adjusted, is primarily attributable to decreases in employee compensation and benefits, distribution and servicing costs and
amortization of deferred mutual funds sales commissions.         
   58   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2008 (continued)           

    Expenses (continued)          
     Employee Compensation and Benefits        Employee compensation and benefits expense decreased $13 million, or 1%, to $1,802 million, for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $1,815
million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Employee compensation and benefits expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 included $89 million of incremental expense related to an increase in the number of employees related to BGI.
     The decrease in employee compensation and benefits expense was attributable to a $118 million decrease in salaries, benefits and commissions,
a $12 million decrease in incentive compensation associated with lower operating income, partially offset by a $60 million increase related to the BGI integration costs and a $57 million increase in deferred compensation, which is offset primarily
by an increase in non-operating income related to appreciation on assets associated with certain deferred compensation plans. The $118 million decrease in salaries, benefits and commissions is due to lower employment levels as a result of the
Company s cost control efforts and outsourcing of Metric services, partially offset by a one month impact of the increase in employees related to the BGI Transaction. Employees at December 31, 2009 totaled 8,629 as compared to 5,341 at
December 31, 2008.        Distribution and Servicing Costs        Distribution and servicing costs decreased $114 million to $477 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $591 million for the year
ended December 31, 2008. These costs include payments to Bank of America/Merrill Lynch under a global distribution agreement, and payments to PNC as well as other third parties, primarily associated with the distribution and servicing of client
investments in certain BlackRock products. The $114 million decrease primarily related to lower levels of average AUM serviced by related parties across all asset classes and an increase in waivers within certain cash management funds, resulting in
lower distribution payments.      Distribution and servicing costs for the year ended December 31, 2009 included $349 million of costs
attributable to Bank of America/Merrill Lynch and affiliates and $19 million of costs attributable to PNC and affiliates as compared to $464 million and $30 million, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2008. Distribution and servicing
costs related to other third parties increased $12 million to $109 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $97 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 due to an expansion of distribution platforms.        Amortization of Deferred Mutual Fund Sales Commissions        Amortization of deferred mutual fund sales commissions decreased $30 million to $100 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $130 million for the year ended December 31,
2008. The decrease in amortization of deferred mutual fund sales commissions was primarily the result of lower sales and redemptions in certain share classes of U.S. open-end mutual funds.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2008 (continued)           

    Expenses (continued)          
     Direct Fund Expenses        Direct fund expenses incurred by BlackRock related to non-advisory operating expenses of certain funds increased $9 million primarily related to the addition
of BGI funds with these arrangements.        General and Administration Expenses         
     
    General and administration expenses increased $114 million, or 17%, for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared with the year ended December 31,
2008.      The year ended December 31, 2009 included $91 million, $11 million, $7 million, $1 million, and $13 million of professional
services, marketing and promotional, technology, occupancy, and other general and administration expenses, respectively, related to the acquisition and integration of BGI. Excluding these expenses, general and administration expenses decreased $9
million, or 1%, for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008.      Total general and administration
expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009 included $43 million of incremental BGI expenses related to each category, excluding closed-end fund launch costs.      Marketing and promotional expenses decreased $69 million, or 45%, primarily due to a decline in travel and promotional expenses. Occupancy increased $26 million which included an $11 million expense
related to the write-off of certain leasehold improvements. Portfolio service costs increased $12 million, or 14%, to $100 million, due to fund expense reimbursements. Professional services increased $86 million, or 113%, to $162 million compared to
$76 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily related to legal, advisory and consulting costs incurred in connection with the BGI Transaction. Other general and administration expenses increased $68 million, or 82%, to $151 million
from $83 million, primarily related to a $61 million increase in balance sheet related foreign currency remeasurement costs, a $21 million increase to a provision related to an outstanding loan to Anthracite Capital Inc., and a $10 million expense
for potentially uncollectible fee receivables, partially offset by a reduction of various expenses primarily the result of cost control efforts.         
   60   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2008 (continued)           

    Expenses (continued)          
     Restructuring Charges        For the year ended December 31, 2009 BlackRock recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $22 million, primarily related to severance, outplacement
costs, occupancy costs and accelerated amortization of certain previously granted stock awards associated with a reduction in work force and reengineering efforts. For the year ended December 31, 2008, BlackRock recorded pre-tax restructuring
charges of $38 million, primarily related to severance, outplacement costs and accelerated amortization of certain previously granted stock awards associated with a 9% reduction in work force. See Restructuring charges discussion in Note 20 to
the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.        Amortization of Intangible Assets
       Amortization of intangible assets increased $1 million to $147 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $146
million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in amortization of intangible assets reflects amortization of finite-lived management contracts acquired in the BGI Transaction.         
   61   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            
     Non-operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2008         Non-Operating Income (Expense), Less Net Income (Loss) Attributable to
Non-Controlling Interests       Non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests for the years
ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows:       
         NM   Not Meaningful        

1   
        Includes net
income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (redeemable and nonredeemable) related to investment and non-investment activities.         The components of non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows:       
         NM   Not Meaningful        

1     
    Includes net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (redeemable and nonredeemable) related to investment and non-investment
activities.      

2     
    Includes net gains / (losses) related to equity and fixed income investments and BlackRock s seed capital hedging program.

3     
    Includes non-controlling interests related to operating entities (non-investment activities).            
   62   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Non-operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared with the
year ended December 31, 2008 (continued)           

    Non-Operating Income (Expense), Less Net Income (Loss) Attributable to
Non-Controlling Interests (continued)          
   Non-operating expense, less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, decreased $394
million to $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $422 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.      The
$20 million net gain on investments, less non-controlling interests, related to the Company s co-investment and seed investments, included valuation gains in distressed credit/mortgage funds of $100 million, investments related to deferred
compensation plans of $18 million, hedge funds/funds of hedge funds of $18 million and private equity products of $9 million offset by net losses in real estate products of $114 million and other investments of $11 million.      Net interest expense was $48 million, an increase of $44 million primarily due to a decline in interest rates earned on cash equivalents and interest rates
paid on its line of credit, offset by an $8 million increase in interest expense related to $2.5 billion in issuances of long-term notes in December 2009.        Net Economic Investment Portfolio        The Company reviews its net economic exposure to
its investment portfolio by reducing its GAAP investments by the net assets attributable to non-controlling interests of consolidated sponsored investment funds. Changes in the investment portfolio are due to purchases, sales, maturities,
distributions as well as the impact of valuations. The following table represents the carrying value, by asset type, at December 31, 2009 and 2008:       
     Income Tax Expense       Income tax expense was $375 million and $387 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 was 30.0%,
as compared to 33.0% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The year over year tax rate decrease is primarily attributable to approximately $45 million of tax benefits related to legislation which was enacted in 2009 with respect to New York
City corporate income taxes.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2008 (continued)           
    Operating Income and Operating Margin         GAAP        Operating
income totaled $1,278 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, which was a decrease of $315 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Year ended December 31, 2009 operating income included $141 million resulting from
incremental revenue and expenses related to the operations of BGI and $183 million of BGI transaction and integration costs. The transaction and integration expenses are not part of the on-going business and are principally comprised of advisory
fees, compensation expense, legal fees and consulting expenses.      Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 included the
effect of a $431 million decrease in investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue, associated with a market driven reduction in average AUM for all asset classes for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the
year ended December 31, 2008, a $42 million reduction in distribution fees and other revenue, offset by an $84 million increase in  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenue, a $25 million increase in performance fees revenue and a $49
million net decrease in operating expenses primarily due to declines in employee compensation and benefits, distribution and servicing costs, amortization of deferred mutual fund sales commissions and restructuring expenses, offset by increases in
direct fund expenses and general and administration expenses.      The Company s operating margin was 27.2% for the year ended
December 31, 2009, compared to 31.5% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The reduction in operating margin in 2009 as compared to 2008 included the effect of $183 million of BGI transaction and integration costs and a change from $50
million of foreign currency remeasurement benefits in 2008 to $11 million of foreign currency remeasurement costs in 2009.        As Adjusted        Operating income, as adjusted, totaled $1,570 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, which was
a decrease of $92 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The decline of operating income, as adjusted, for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 is related to the effect of the
$364 million decrease in total revenue offset by a $272 million decrease in operating expenses due to decreases in employee compensation and benefits, distribution and servicing costs and general and administration expenses.      Operating margin, as adjusted, was 38.2% and 38.7% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The reduction in margin includes the
effect of the $61 million increase in expenses related to the change in foreign currency remeasurement offset by a reduction of certain expenses as a result of additional cost controls in 2009.      Operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, are described in more detail in the Overview to Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.         
   64   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2008 (continued)           
    Net Income Attributable to BlackRock, Inc.       The components of net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. and net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, for the years ended
December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as follows:       

1   
        Includes net
income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (redeemable and nonredeemable) related to investment and non-investment activities.      

2   
        Series A, B, C,
and D non-voting participating preferred stock are considered to be common stock equivalents for purposes of determining basic and diluted earnings per share calculations. Certain unvested restricted stock units are not included in this number as
they are deemed participating securities in accordance with required provisions of ASC 260-10 .             GAAP        Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes operating income of
$1,278 million, or $5.75 per diluted common share, non-operating expenses, less net income attributable to non-controlling interests, of $28 million, or $0.13 per diluted common share and $70 million, or $0.49 per diluted common share, of tax
benefits related to local income tax law changes, a favorable tax ruling and the final resolution of outstanding tax matters. Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. totaled $875 million, or $6.11 per diluted common share, for the year ended
December 31, 2009, which was an increase of $91 million, or $0.33 per diluted common share, compared to the year ended December 31, 2008.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2008 (continued)           

    Net Income Attributable to BlackRock, Inc. (continued)          
   Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2009 included the
after-tax effect of the portion of LTIP awards, which will be funded through a capital contribution of BlackRock stock held by PNC of $41 million, BGI transaction/integration costs of $129 million, restructuring charges of $14 million, and an
expected cash contribution, a portion of which has been paid by Merrill Lynch in third quarter 2009 of $7 million to fund certain compensation of former MLIM employees. In addition, net income for the year ended December 31, 2009 included a $45
million one-time reduction in income tax expense as a result of enacted legislation primarily with respect to New York City corporate income taxes, which resulted in a revaluation of certain deferred income tax assets and liabilities.      Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. of $784 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 included the after-tax effect of the portion of certain
LTIP awards, which will be funded through a capital contribution of BlackRock stock held by PNC of $39 million, restructuring charges of $26 million and an expected contribution by Merrill Lynch of $7 million to fund certain compensation of former
MLIM employees, a portion of which was received by BlackRock in third quarter 2009.        As Adjusted        Exclusive of the items discussed above, diluted earnings per common share, as adjusted, of $7.13 for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $0.83,
or 13%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2008.      Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, for the year ended
December 31, 2009 includes operating income of $1,570 million, or $7.35 per diluted common share, non-operating expenses, less net income attributable to non-controlling interests, of $46 million, or $0.22 per diluted common share.   
  Diluted earnings per common share, as adjusted, is described in more detail in the Overview to Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            
     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared with the
year ended December 31, 2007        AUM decreased $49 billion, or 4%, to $1.307 trillion at December 31, 2008, compared with $1.357
trillion at December 31, 2007. The decline in AUM was attributable to $189 billion in net market depreciation and $28 billion in net foreign exchange movements, partially offset by $168 billion in net subscriptions.      The following table presents the component changes in BlackRock s AUM   1    for 2008.       

1     
    Includes distributions representing return of capital and return on investment to investors.      

2     
    Foreign exchange reflects the impact of converting non-U.S. dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.

3     
    Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.         Net market depreciation of $189 billion was primarily due to depreciation in equity products of $141 billion, as equity markets declined during the year ended December 31, 2008, net depreciation on
fixed income products of $16 billion, depreciation on multi-asset products of $20 billion and alternative investment products of $13 billion. The $28 billion reduction in AUM from foreign exchange was across all asset classes due to the
strengthening of the U.S. dollar which resulted in foreign exchange translation loss from converting non U.S.-dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars. Net subscriptions of $168 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008 were attributable to
net new business of $145 billion in long-term advisory liquidation assignments, $26 billion in cash management products, $5 billion in multi-asset class products and $5 billion in alternative investment products, partially offset by $6 billion and
$7 billion of net outflows in equity and fixed income products, respectively.         
   67   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2007 (continued)           
    Revenue        
    Total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased $219 million, or 5%, to $5,064 million, compared
with $4,845 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The $219 million increase was primarily the result of a $220 million increase in total investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue, a $203 million increase in
 BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenue and a $16 million increase in distribution fees, offset by a $173 million decrease in investment advisory performance fees and a $47 million decrease in other revenue.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2007 (continued)           

    Revenue (continued)          
     Investment Advisory, Administration Fees and Securities Lending Revenue   
     The increase in investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue of $220 million for the year ended December 31,
2008, compared with the year ended December 31, 2007, consisted of increases of, $169 million in alternative investment products, $185 million in cash management products and $100 million in multi-asset class products, offset by decreases of
$211 million in active and index equity products and $23 million in active fixed income products. Investment advisory and administration base fees increased for the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily as a result of increased average AUM in
2008 compared to 2007 for cash management products due to net subscriptions and alternative investment products due to the full year effect of the Quellos Transaction, offset by lower fees in equity products due to the impact of market depreciation
on AUM.        Investment Advisory Performance Fees        Investment advisory performance fees decreased by $173 million, or 49%, to $177 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to $350 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
primarily as a result of lower investment advisory performance fees earned on alternative investment products, including real estate funds and fixed income hedge funds, and international equity products.        BlackRock Solutions and Advisory         BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenue of $393 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased $203 million, or 107%, compared with the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase
in  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenue was primarily the result of additional advisory assignments and Aladdin      assignments during the period. A portion of the revenue earned on advisory assignments was comprised of one-time advisory and portfolio structuring fees and ongoing
fees based on AUM of the respective portfolio assignments.        Distribution Fees        Distribution fees increased by $16 million to $139 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to $123 million for the year ended
December 31, 2007. The increase in distribution fees was primarily due to the full-year effect of the acquisition of distribution financing arrangements from PNC in second quarter 2007, which resulted in the Company receiving distribution fees
from such arrangements, as well as an increase in contingent deferred sales commissions as a result of redemptions in certain share classes of open-ended funds.         

   69   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2007 (continued)           

    Revenue (continued)          
     Other Revenue         
    Other revenue of $98 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased $47 million, or 32%, compared to
the year ended December 31, 2007.      The decrease in other revenue of $47 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to
the year ended December 31, 2007, was primarily the result of a decrease in fees earned for fund accounting services of $16 million, a $14 million decline in other advisory service fees earned in 2007, a $11 million decline in unit trust and
class A mutual fund commissions revenue and a $6 million decline in property management fees primarily related to the termination in the fourth quarter of 2008 of certain Metric contracts with BlackRock real estate clients. Certain Metric employees
have been transferred to a third party, which provides real estate clients the property management services formerly provided by Metric. At December 31, 2008, Metric had no remaining employees. The decreases discussed above were offset by a $5
million increase in fees for transition management services.         
   70   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2007 (continued)           
    Expenses        
         NM   Not Meaningful        

(1)     
    Adjusted for the PNC LTIP funding obligation, Merrill Lynch compensation cash contribution and compensation expense related to appreciation
(depreciation) on certain deferred compensation plans.         Total GAAP expenses decreased $80 million, or 2%, to $3,471 million
for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $3,551 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Excluding certain items deemed non-recurring by management or transactions that ultimately will not affect the Company s book
value, total expenses, as adjusted, increased $75 million, or 2%. The increase was attributable to increases in distribution and servicing costs, employee compensation and benefits, amortization of deferred mutual fund sales commissions and
amortization of intangible assets.         
   71   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared with the
year ended December 31, 2007 (continued)           

    Expenses (continued)          
     Employee Compensation and Benefits        Employee compensation and benefits expense increased $48 million, or 3%, to $1,815 million at December 31, 2008, compared to $1,767 million for the year
ended December 31, 2007. The increase in employee compensation and benefits expense was primarily attributable to a $91 million increase in salaries and benefits offset by a $38 million decrease in deferred compensation, which was primarily
linked to depreciation on assets related to certain deferred compensation plans. The increase of $91 million in salaries and benefits was primarily due to an increase in headcount throughout the majority of 2007 and 2008 (including the effect
associated with the fund of funds acquisition in 2007). Full time employees at December 31, 2008 totaled 5,341 (including the effect of a reduction in force in the fourth quarter) as compared to 5,952 (including Metric) at December 31,
2007. The decline in deferred compensation of $38 million was substantially offset by the change in valuations of investments set aside for these plans, which are included in non-operating income (expense).        Distribution and Servicing Costs        Distribution and servicing costs increased $52 million, or 10%, to $591 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $539 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. These
costs include payments to Merrill Lynch under the global distribution agreement, and payments to PNC as well as other third parties, primarily associated with the distribution and servicing of client investments in certain BlackRock products. The
$52 million increase related primarily to higher levels of average AUM in cash management products.      Distribution and servicing costs for the
year ended December 31, 2008 included $464 million of costs attributable to Merrill Lynch and affiliates and $30 million of costs attributable to PNC and affiliates as compared to $444 million and $28 million, respectively, in the year ended
December 31, 2007. The increased costs attributable to Merrill Lynch was offset by approximately $10 million expense reduction associated with the 2007 termination of closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements. Distribution and
servicing costs related to other non-related third parties increased $30 million as a result of an expansion of distribution platforms.        Amortization of Deferred Mutual Fund Sales Commissions        Amortization of deferred
mutual fund sales commissions increased by $22 million to $130 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to $108 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in amortization of deferred mutual fund sales
commissions was primarily the result of the acquisition of distribution financing arrangements from PNC in second quarter 2007 as well as higher sales and redemptions in certain share classes of open-ended funds.        Direct Fund Expenses        Direct fund expenses increased $6 million, or 8%, to $86 million during the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to $80 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.         
   72   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared with the
year ended December 31, 2007 (continued)           

    Expenses (continued)          
     General and Administration Expenses         
    General and administration expenses decreased $134 million, or 17%, for the year ended December 31, 2008
compared with the year ended December 31, 2007. Other general and administration costs decreased $80 million, or 49%, to $83 million from $163 million, primarily related to a $49 million decrease in foreign currency remeasurement costs and $26
million decrease in costs associated with the support of two enhanced cash funds. Closed-end funds launch costs decreased $27 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 due to three closed-end funds launched during the year ended
December 31, 2007, which generated approximately $3.0 billion in AUM as compared to two closed-end funds launched in the year ended December 31, 2008, which generated approximately $400 million in AUM. Professional services decreased $18
million, or 19%, to $76 million compared to $94 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily due to decreases in accounting, tax and other consulting costs related to the MLIM integration in 2007. Marketing and promotional expenses
decreased $15 million, or 9%, primarily due to a decline in travel and promotional expenses. The decreases discussed above were partially offset by a $9 million, or 7%, increase in occupancy expenses to $139 million compared to $130 million for the
year ended December 31, 2007 as a result of expansion of offices worldwide (including the full-year effect of the Quellos Transaction).        Restructuring Charges        For the year ended December 31, 2008, BlackRock recorded
pre-tax restructuring charges of $38 million, primarily related to severance, outplacement costs and accelerated amortization of certain previously granted stock awards associated with a 9% reduction in work force. See Restructuring charges
discussion in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared with the
year ended December 31, 2007 (continued)           

    Expenses (continued)          
     Termination of Closed-end Fund Administration and Servicing Arrangements   
     For the year ended December 31, 2007, BlackRock recorded a one-time expense of $128 million related to the termination of administration
and servicing arrangements with Merrill Lynch on 40 closed-end funds with original terms of 30-40 years.        Amortization
of Intangible Assets        The $16 million increase in the amortization of intangible assets to $146 million for the year ended
December 31, 2008, compared to $130 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, primarily reflects the full-year impact of the amortization of finite-lived intangible assets acquired in the Quellos Transaction.       Non-Operating Income (Expense), Less Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Non-Controlling Interests       Non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was as
follows:       
         NM   Not Meaningful        

1   
        Includes net
income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (redeemable and nonredeemable) related to investment and non-investment activities.            
   74   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared with the
year ended December 31, 2007 (continued)           

    Non-Operating Income (Expense), Less Net Income (Loss) Attributable to
Non-Controlling Interests (continued)          
   The components of non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling
interests, for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:       
         NM   Not Meaningful        

1     
    Includes net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (redeemable and nonredeemable) related to investment activities.

2     
    Includes net gains/(losses) related to equity and fixed income investments, collateralized debt obligations ( CDOs ) and BlackRock s
seed capital hedging program.      

3     
    Includes non-controlling interests related to operating entities (non-investment activities).         Non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, decreased $584 million to $422 million of expense for the
year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to non-operating income, less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests of $162 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in net non-operating income (expense),
less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, primarily reflects declines in valuations from seed investments and co-investments in real estate funds, private equity and hedge funds/funds of hedge funds (which includes the impact
of a $141 million decline in valuations of distressed credit products) and a $50 million decline in valuations of investments associated with certain deferred compensation plans. In addition, net interest expense increased $26 million primarily
related to incremental interest expense related to the full year effect of the $700 million issuance of long-term debt in September 2007.         
   75   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2007 (continued)           
     Income Tax Expense        Income tax expense was $387 million and $463 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the
year ended December 31, 2008 was 33.0%, as compared to 31.8% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in the effective income tax rate was primarily the result of a one-time tax benefit of $51 million recognized in 2007 due to
tax legislation changes enacted in the third quarter 2007 in the United Kingdom and Germany, which resulted in a revaluation of certain deferred tax liabilities. Accordingly, BlackRock revalued its deferred tax liabilities in these jurisdictions.
Excluding this deferred income tax benefit, the 2007 adjusted effective tax rate was 35.3%. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 declined as compared to the 2007 adjusted effective tax rate, primarily as a result
of the impact of foreign taxes.        Operating Income and Operating Margin         GAAP       Operating income
totaled $1,593 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was an increase of $299 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company s operating margin was 31.5% for the year ended December 31, 2008,
compared to 26.7% for the year ended December 31, 2007. Operating income and operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2008 included a $50 million foreign currency remeasurement benefit and a $38 million deferred compensation
benefit due to depreciation on assets related to certain deferred compensation plans, offset by $38 million of restructuring charges. Operating income and operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2007 included to the termination of
certain closed-end fund servicing and administration arrangements of $128 million, $42 million of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions and $20 million of MLIM integration costs.       As Adjusted       Operating
income, as adjusted, totaled $1,662 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was an increase of $144 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. Operating margin, as adjusted, was 38.7% and 37.5% for the years ended
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The growth of operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 is primarily related to
$219 million of revenue growth (including the full year impact of the Quellos Transaction) and a $49 million decline in foreign currency remeasurement costs, offset by a $91 million increase in salaries and benefits and a $16 million increase in
amortization of finite-lived intangible assets primarily associated with the Quellos Transaction.      Operating income, as adjusted, and
operating margin, as adjusted, are described in more detail in the Overview to Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.       
  
   76   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared with
the year ended December 31, 2007 (continued)           
     Net Income Attributable to BlackRock, Inc.        The components of net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. and net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, for the years ended
December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:       
         NM   Not Meaningful        

1     
    Includes net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (redeemable and nonredeemable) related to investment and non-investment
activities.      

2     
    Series A, B and C non-voting participating preferred stock are considered to be common stock equivalents for purposes of determining basic and diluted
earnings per share calculations. Certain unvested restricted stock units are not included in this number as they are deemed participating securities in accordance with required provisions of ASC 260-10 .             
   77   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared with the
year ended December 31, 2007 (continued)           

     Net Income Attributable to BlackRock, Inc. (continued)           
   Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2008 included operating
income of $1,593 million, or $7.86 per diluted share, and non-operating losses, less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, of $422 million, or $2.08 per diluted common share, versus a $0.78 gain per diluted common share in
2007. Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. totaled $784 million, or $5.78 per diluted common share, for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was a decrease of $209 million, or $1.59 per diluted common share, compared to the year ended
December 31, 2007.      Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2008 included the after-tax impact of
the portion of LTIP awards which will be funded through a capital contribution of BlackRock stock held by PNC, an expected contribution by Merrill Lynch to fund certain compensation of former MLIM employees, a portion of which has been received by
BlackRock in 2009, and restructuring charges of $39 million, $7 million, and $26 million, respectively.      Net income attributable to BlackRock,
Inc. of $993 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 included the after-tax effect related to the termination of certain closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements of $82 million, the portion of certain LTIP awards which
will be funded through a capital contribution of BlackRock stock held by PNC of $34 million, MLIM integration costs of $13 million and an expected contribution by Merrill Lynch of $6 million to fund certain compensation of former MLIM employees, a
portion of which has been received by BlackRock in 2009. In addition, the United Kingdom and Germany enacted legislation reducing corporate income tax rates resulting in a one-time decrease of $51 million in income tax expense which is included in
net income.      Exclusive of these items in both periods, diluted earnings per common share, as adjusted, for the year ended December 31,
2008 decreased $1.69, or 21%, to $6.30 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. Diluted earnings per common share, as adjusted, is described in more detail in the Overview to Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations.        Liquidity and Capital Resources         BlackRock Cash Flows Excluding the Impact of Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds       In accordance with GAAP, certain BlackRock sponsored investment funds are consolidated into the financial statements of BlackRock, notwithstanding the fact
that BlackRock may only have a minority economic interest in these funds. As a result, BlackRock s consolidated statements of cash flows include the cash flows of consolidated sponsored investment funds. The Company uses an adjusted cash flow
statement, which excludes the impact of consolidated sponsored investment funds, as a supplemental non-GAAP measure to assess liquidity and capital requirements. The Company believes that its cash flows, excluding the impact of the consolidated
sponsored investment funds, provide investors with useful information on the cash flows of BlackRock relating to our ability to fund additional operating, investing and financing activities. BlackRock s management does not advocate that
investors consider such non-GAAP measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for its cash flow presented in accordance with GAAP.         
   78   

Table of Contents  

PART II FINANCIAL INFORMATION (continued)          

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued)           

    BlackRock Cash Flows Excluding the Impact of Consolidated Sponsored Investment
Funds (continued)          
   The following table presents a reconciliation of the Company s consolidated statements of cash
flows presented on a GAAP basis to the Company s consolidated statements of cash flows, excluding the impact of the cash flows of consolidated sponsored investment funds:       
         NM   Not Meaningful    

(1)   
        For further
information see the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K, which updated the financial information in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was filed with the SEC on September 17, 2009.
        Cash and cash equivalents, excluding cash held by consolidated sponsored investment funds, at December 31, 2009
increased $2,662 million from December 31, 2008, primarily resulting from $1,231 million of cash inflows from operating activities, $6,934 million of cash inflows from financing activities, $5,550 million of cash outflows from investing
activities and a $47 million increase due to the effect of foreign exchange rate changes.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

PART II FINANCIAL INFORMATION (continued)          

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued)           

    BlackRock Cash Flows Excluding the Impact of Consolidated Sponsored Investment
Funds (continued)          
     Operating Activities        Sources of BlackRock s operating cash primarily include investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue, revenues from
 BlackRock Solutions  and advisory products and services and mutual fund distribution fees. BlackRock uses its cash to pay compensation and benefits, distribution and servicing costs, general and administration expenses, interest and principal
on the Company s borrowings, income taxes and dividends on BlackRock s capital stock and to purchase co-investments and seed investments, and pay for capital expenditures.      Net cash inflows from operating activities, excluding the impact of consolidated sponsored investment funds, for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily include the receipt of investment advisory
and administration fees, securities lending revenue and other revenue offset by the payment of operating expenses incurred in the normal course of business. In addition, in December 2009 subsequent to the close of the BGI Transaction, there was an
operating cash outflow of $356 million related to the payment of certain accrued BGI employee compensation assumed by BlackRock, which was funded by cash and investments acquired in connection with the BGI Transaction.        Investing Activities        Cash outflows from investing activities, excluding the impact of consolidated sponsored investment funds, for the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily included a $5.6 billion outflow, net of $1,055 million of cash acquired related to
the BGI Transaction, a $156 million contingent consideration payment to Quellos paid in the second quarter, $73 million of purchases of investments and $65 million of purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $260 million of net
proceeds from sales and maturities of investments and $89 million of return of capital from equity method investees.        Financing Activities        Cash inflows from financing activities, excluding the impact of consolidated sponsored investment
funds, for the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily included the receipt of $2.8 billion from equity raised in connection with financing the BGI Transaction, $2.5 billion of long-term note issuances, $2 billion of net commercial paper
financing and a $25 million receipt of a Merrill Lynch cash capital contribution to fund certain compensation expense, partially offset by $422 million of payments for cash dividends.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

PART II FINANCIAL INFORMATION (continued)          

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued)           

    Capital Resources          
   The Company manages its financial condition and funding to maintain appropriate liquidity for the
business. Capital resources at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows:       

1     
    The Company may not be able to access such cash to use in its operating activities.      

3   
        The outstanding
commercial paper notes that are supported by the 2007 credit facility reduce the availability of the facility.      

4     
    A portion of the required regulatory capital is partially met with cash and cash equivalents.         In addition, a significant portion of the Company s $844 million of net economic investments are illiquid in nature and, as such, may not be readily
convertible to cash.       Short-term Borrowings         2007 Facility        In
August 2007, the Company entered into a five-year, $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the  2007 facility ). The 2007 facility requires the Company not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio (ratio of net debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, where net debt equals total debt less domestic unrestricted cash) of 3 to 1, which was satisfied with a ratio of less than 1 to 1 at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, the Company had
$200 million outstanding under the 2007 facility with an interest rate of 0.44% and a maturity date during February 2010. During February 2010, the Company rolled over $100 million in borrowings with an interest rate of 0.43% and a maturity date in
May 2010. Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. has a $140 million participation under the 2007 facility; however, BlackRock does not expect that Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. will honor its commitment to fund additional amounts. Bank of America, a related
party, has a $140 million participation under the 2007 facility.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

PART II FINANCIAL INFORMATION (continued)          

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued)           

    Short-term Borrowings (continued)          
     Commercial Paper Program        On October 14, 2009, BlackRock established a commercial paper program (the  CP Program ) under which the Company may issue unsecured
commercial paper notes (the  CP Notes ) on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $3 billion. The proceeds of the commercial paper issuances were used to finance a portion of the BGI
Transaction. Subsidiaries of Bank of America and Barclays, both related parties, as well as other third parties, act as dealers under the CP Program. At year-end the CP Program was supported by the 2007 facility.      The Company began to issue CP Notes under the CP Program on November 4, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, BlackRock had approximately $2 billion of
outstanding CP Notes with a weighted average interest rate of 0.20% and a weighted average maturity of 23 days. Since December 31, 2009, the Company repaid approximately $1.4 billion of CP Notes with proceeds from the long-term note issuances
in December 2009 and operating cash flow. See Note 13, Borrowings, in the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K for further discussion. As of March 5, 2010, BlackRock had $596 million of outstanding CP Notes
supported by the 2007 facility with a weighted average interest rate of 0.18% and a weighted average maturity of 38 days. The Company expects that the outstanding balance of CP Notes may fluctuate throughout the year.        Japan Commitment-line        In June 2009, BlackRock Japan Co., Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, renewed its five billion Japanese yen commitment-line agreement (the  Japan Commitment-line ) for a term of one year. The Japan
Commitment-line is intended to provide liquidity and flexibility for operating requirements in Japan. At December 31, 2009, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Japan Commitment-line.        Conversion of Convertible Debentures        On February 15, 2009, the convertible debentures became convertible at the option of the holder into cash and shares of the Company s common stock at any time prior to maturity. During 2009,
holders of $7 million of convertible debentures elected to convert their holdings into cash and shares. In addition, during January and February 2010, holders of $148 million of convertible debentures elected to convert their holdings into cash and
shares.       Other Cash Uses       As certain acquired BGI receivables are collected during 2010, it is anticipated that the Company will pay Barclays approximately $190 million to settle certain non-interest bearing notes assumed in the
BGI Transaction.      In addition, BlackRock Institutional Trust Company, National Association ( BTC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company, expects to purchase approximately $300 million of additional Federal Reserve Bank stock during the first quarter of 2010 pursuant to its regulatory requirements.       
  
   82   

Table of Contents  

PART II FINANCIAL INFORMATION (continued)          

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued)           
    Support of Two Enhanced Cash Funds       In December 2007, BlackRock entered into capital support agreements with the two enhanced cash funds backed by letters of credit drawn under BlackRock s
existing credit facility. Pursuant to the capital support agreements, BlackRock agreed to make subsequent capital contributions to the funds to cover realized losses, up to $100 million, related to specified securities held by the funds. In December
2008, BlackRock s maximum potential obligation under the capital support agreements was reduced to $45 million, and in 2009 both capital support agreements were terminated, due to the closure of the related funds. BlackRock provided
approximately $4 million of capital contributions to these funds for the year ended December 31, 2009 under the capital support agreements.      BlackRock holds debt securities it received in lieu of its remaining investment in one fund and securities it directly purchased from both enhanced cash funds prior to closure of the funds in 2009. At December 31, 2009, the carrying
value of the remaining debt securities was $12 million.      In applying the provisions of ASC 810-10,  Consolidation  ( ASC
810-10 ), BlackRock concluded that it was the primary beneficiary of the two enhanced cash funds at December 31, 2008, which resulted in consolidation of the funds on its consolidated statements of financial condition.       Barclays Support of Certain Securities Lending Related Cash Funds       Barclays has provided capital support agreements to support certain securities lending related cash management products acquired by BlackRock in the BGI Transaction. Pursuant to the terms of the capital
support agreements, Barclays agreed to cover losses on covered securities within the products in the aggregate of up to $2.2 billion from December 1, 2009 through December 1, 2013. BlackRock and Barclays have procedures in place to
determine loss events on covered securities within the products and to ensure support payments from Barclays. As of February 2010, Barclays  remaining maximum potential obligation in the aggregate under the capital support agreements was $2.2
billion. At December 31, 2009, BlackRock concluded that although these funds were variable interest entities, it was not the primary beneficiary of these funds.       Capital Activities       On August 2, 2006, BlackRock announced that its Board of Directors
had authorized a share repurchase program to purchase an additional 2.1 million shares of BlackRock common stock. Pursuant to this repurchase program, BlackRock may make repurchases from time to time, as market conditions warrant, in the open
market or in privately negotiated transactions at the discretion of management. The Company repurchased 1,348,600 shares under the program in open market transactions for approximately $200.9 million through December 31, 2007 and the Company
did not repurchase any additional shares under the program during 2008 and 2009. As a result, the Company is currently authorized to repurchase an additional 751,400 shares under its share repurchase program.       Net Capital Requirements       The Company is required to maintain net capital in certain regulated subsidiaries within a number of jurisdictions, which is met in part by retaining cash and cash equivalents in those jurisdictions. As a result, such subsidiaries of the
Company may be restricted in their ability to transfer cash between different jurisdictions and to their parents. Additionally, transfers of cash between international jurisdictions, including repatriation to the United States, may have adverse tax
consequences that could discourage such transfers.      BTC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is chartered as a national bank that does
not accept client deposits and whose powers are limited to trust activities. BTC provides investment management services, including investment advisory and securities lending agency services to institutional investors and other clients. BTC is
subject to various regulatory capital and liquid asset requirements administered by Federal banking agencies.      At December 31, 2009, the
Company was required to maintain approximately $857 million in net capital at these subsidiaries, including BTC, and is in compliance with all applicable regulatory minimum net capital requirements .          
   83   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued)           
    Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies       The following table sets forth contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies by year of payment at December 31, 2009:       

1   
        Amounts include
principal repayments and interest payments.      

2     
    As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $225 million of net unrecognized tax benefits. Due to the uncertainty of timing and amounts that will
ultimately be paid, this amount has been excluded from the table above.            
   84   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued)           

    Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies (continued)    
     
     Long-term Borrowings        At December 31, 2009, long-term borrowings were $3.2 billion. Debt service and repayment requirements are $140 million in each of 2010 and 2011, $640
million in 2012, $129 million in 2013 and $1,129 million in 2014.       2017 Notes       In September 2007, the Company issued $700 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior unsecured notes maturing on September 15, 2017 (the
 2017 Notes ). A portion of the net proceeds of the Notes was used to fund the initial cash payment for the acquisition of the fund of funds business of Quellos and the remainder was used for general corporate purposes. Interest is payable
semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, or approximately $44 million per year. The 2017 Notes may be redeemed prior to maturity at any time in whole or in part at the option of the Company at a
 make-whole  redemption price. The 2017 Notes were issued at a discount of $6 million, which is being amortized over the ten-year term.       2012, 2014 and 2019 Notes       In December 2009, the Company issued $2.5 billion in aggregate
principal amount of unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. These notes were issued as three separate series of senior debt securities including $0.5 billion of 2.25% notes, $1.0 billion of 3.50% notes and $1.0 billion of 5.0% notes maturing in
December 2012, 2014 and 2019, respectively. Net proceeds of this offering were used to repay borrowings under our commercial paper program, which was used to finance a portion of the BGI Transaction, and for general corporate purposes. Interest on
these notes of approximately $96 million per year is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 10 and December 10 of each year beginning June 10, 2010. These notes may be redeemed prior to maturity at any time in whole or in part at
the option of the Company at a  make-whole  redemption price. These notes were issued collectively at a discount of $5 million, which is being amortized over approximately a weighted 6.6 year term.        Convertible Debentures        In February 2005, the Company issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of convertible debentures due in 2035 and bearing interest at a rate of 2.625% per annum. Interest payments are approximately $6 million per year and are
payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year. Beginning in February 2009 the convertible debentures became convertible at the option of the holders at any time. At December 31, 2009, convertible
debentures outstanding were $243 million and on, and after, February 20, 2010 became callable by the Company at any time following not more than 60 but not less than 30 days notice. On the contractual obligations table above, the remaining $243
million principal balance of the convertible debentures is assumed, although not determined, to be fully repaid in 2010.        Short-term Borrowings         2007 Facility       At December 31, 2009, the Company had $200 million outstanding under the 2007 facility with an interest rate of 0.44% and a maturity during February
2010. During February 2010, the Company rolled over $100 million in borrowings with a maturity date in May 2010.       Commercial Paper Program       At December 31, 2009, BlackRock had approximately $2 billion of outstanding CP Notes with a
weighted average interest rate of 0.20% and a weighted average maturity of 23 days. Since December 31, 2009, the Company repaid approximately $1.4 billion of CP Notes with proceeds from the long-term note issuances in December 2009 as well as
operating cash flow. As of March 5, 2010, BlackRock had $596 million of outstanding CP Notes with a weighted average interest rate of 0.18% and a weighted average maturity of 38 days. The Company expects to repay the remaining balance with
operating cash flow.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued)           

    Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies (continued)    
     
     Operating Leases        The Company leases its primary office space under agreements that currently expire through 2023. In connection with certain lease agreements, the Company is
responsible for escalation payments. The contractual obligations table above includes only guaranteed minimum lease payments for such leases and does not project potential escalation or other lease-related payments. These leases are classified as
operating leases and, as such, are not recorded as liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial condition.      In January 2010, the
Company entered into an agreement for a lease in London which began in February 2010 and will continue for twenty-five years, with the option to renew for an additional five-year term. The lease provides for total annual base rental payments of
approximately $22 million, which is subject to increase on each fifth anniversary of the beginning of the lease.        Purchase Obligations        In the ordinary course of business, BlackRock enters into contracts or purchase obligations with
third parties whereby the third parties provide services to or on behalf of BlackRock. Purchase obligations included in the contractual obligations table above represent executory contracts, which are either non-cancelable or cancelable with a
penalty. At December 31, 2009, the Company s obligations primarily reflect standard service contracts for portfolio, market data and office related services. Purchase obligations are recorded on the Company s financial statements when
services are provided and, as such, obligations for services not received are not included in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition at December 31, 2009.        Investment/Loan Commitments        At December 31, 2009, the Company had $311 million of various capital commitments to fund sponsored investment funds. This amount excludes additional commitments made by consolidated funds of funds to underlying third party funds as
third party non-controlling interest holders have the legal obligation to fund the respective commitments of such funds of funds. Generally, the timing of the funding of these commitments is unknown. Therefore, amounts are shown to be paid upon the
expiration date of the commitment. Actual payments could be made at any time prior to such expiration date and, if not called by that date, such commitments would expire. These commitments have not been recorded on the Company s consolidated
statements of financial condition at December 31, 2009. The above schedule does not include potential future commitments approved by the Company s Capital Committee, but which are not yet legally binding commitments. The Company intends to
make additional capital commitments from time to time to fund additional investment products for, and with, its clients.      At December 31,
2009, the Company was committed to provide financing of up to $60 million, until March 2010, to Anthracite Capital, Inc. ( Anthracite ), a specialty commercial real estate finance company that is managed by a subsidiary of BlackRock. The
financing is collateralized by Anthracite pledging its ownership interest in a real estate debt investment fund, which is also managed by BlackRock. At December 31, 2009, $33.5 million of financing was outstanding and remains outstanding as of
March 10, 2010, which is past its final maturity date of March 5, 2010. At December 31, 2009, the value of the collateral was estimated to be $12.5 million, which resulted in a $21 million reduction in due from related parties on
the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition and an equal amount recorded in general and administration expense in the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company has no obligation to lend additional amounts to Anthracite
under this facility. The Company continues to evaluate the collectability of the outstanding borrowings by reviewing the carrying value of the net assets of the collateral, which fluctuates each period.         
   86   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued)           

    Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies (continued)    
     
   As a general partner in certain private equity partnerships, the Company receives certain carried
interest distributions from the partnerships according to the provisions of the partnership agreements. The Company may, from time to time, be required to return all or a portion of such distributions to the limited partners in the event the limited
partners do not achieve a certain return as specified in the various partnership agreements.        Contingent Distribution
Obligations        BlackRock has entered into an amended and restated global distribution agreement with Merrill Lynch, which requires the
Company to make payments to Merrill Lynch contingent upon sales of products and level of assets under management maintained in certain BlackRock products. The economic terms of the agreement will remain in effect until January 2014. After such term,
the agreement will renew for one automatic three-year extension if certain conditions are satisfied. The above schedule reflects the Company s estimated payments for 2010, which due to uncertainty of asset levels and future additional sales,
has been held constant for 2011 through 2013.        Contingent Payments Related to Business Acquisitions     
   SSRM Holdings:       In
January 2005, the Company closed its acquisition of SSRM Holdings, Inc. from MetLife for adjusted consideration of approximately $265 million in cash and 550,000 restricted shares of BlackRock common stock and certain additional contingent payments.
In January 2010, the fifth anniversary of the closing of the SSR Transaction, MetLife was entitled to receive an additional payment of $9 million, which is expected to be paid in March 2010, based on the Company s retained AUM associated with
the MetLife defined benefit and defined contribution plans.       Quellos:       In connection with the Quellos Transaction, Quellos is entitled to receive two contingent payments, subject to achieving certain investment advisory base and
performance fee measures through December 31, 2010, totaling up to an additional $969 million in a combination of cash and stock.      During
second quarter 2009, the Company determined the amount of the first contingent payment to be $219 million, of which $11 million was previously paid in cash during 2008. Of the remaining $208 million, during second quarter 2009, $156 million was paid
in cash and $52 million was paid in common stock, or approximately 330,000 shares based on a price of $157.33 per share.      The second
contingent payment, of up to $595 million, is payable in cash in 2011. Quellos may also be entitled to a  catch-up  payment in 2011 if certain investment advisory base fee measures are met through 2010 as the value of the first contingent
payment was less than $374 million. A portion of the second contingent payment, not to exceed $90 million, may be paid to Quellos based on factors including the continued employment of certain employees with BlackRock. Therefore, this portion, not
to exceed $90 million, would be recorded as employee compensation.      The contractual obligation table above includes both the maximum potential
remaining payment of $155 million related to the catch up payment associated with the first contingent payment and $595 million related to the second contingent payment.       
  
   87   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

     Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies (continued)
          
   The following items have not been included in the contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies
table:        Compensation and Benefit Obligations        The Company has various compensation and benefit obligations, including bonuses, commissions and incentive payments payable, defined contribution plan matching contribution obligations, and deferred
compensation arrangements, that are excluded from the table above primarily due to uncertainties in their payout periods. These arrangements are discussed in more detail in Notes 15 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page
F-1 of this Form 10-K. Accrued compensation and benefits at December 31, 2009 totaled $1,482 million and included incentive compensation of $1,132 million, including $481 million related to BGI, deferred compensation of $112 million and other
compensation and benefits related obligations of $238 million. Incentive compensation was primarily paid in the first quarter of 2010, while the deferred compensation obligations are payable over periods up to five years.        Separate Account Liabilities        The Company s two wholly-owned registered life insurance companies in the United Kingdom maintain separate account assets representing segregated funds held for purposes of funding individual and group pension contracts. The net
investment income and net realized and unrealized gains and losses attributable to these separate account assets accrue to the contract owners and, as such, an offsetting separate account liability is recorded. At December 31, 2009, the Company
had $119.6 billion of assets and offsetting liabilities on the consolidated statement of financial condition. The payment of these contractual obligations is inherently uncertain and varies by customer. As such, these liabilities have been excluded
from the contractual obligations table above.        Indemnifications        In many of the Company s contracts, including the BGI, MLIM and Quellos Transaction agreements, BlackRock agrees to indemnify third parties under
certain circumstances. The terms of the indemnities vary from contract to contract and the amount of indemnification liability, if any, cannot be determined and has not been included in the table above or recorded in the Company s consolidated
statement of financial condition at December 31, 2009. See further discussion in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.         
   88   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            
    Critical Accounting Policies       The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could
differ significantly from those estimates. Management considers the following critical accounting policies important to understanding the consolidated financial statements. For a summary of these and additional accounting policies as well as recent
accounting developments. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.        Consolidation        The accounting method used for the Company s investments is dependent upon the influence the Company
has over its investee. For investments where BlackRock can exert control over the financial and operating policies of the investee, which generally exists if there is a 50% or greater voting interest or if partners or members of certain products do
not have substantive rights, the investee is consolidated into BlackRock s financial statements.      Pursuant to ASC 810-10, for certain
investments where the risks and rewards of ownership are not directly linked to voting interests ( variable interest entities  or  VIEs ), an investee may be consolidated if BlackRock is considered the primary beneficiary of the
VIE. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that absorbs a majority of the entity s expected losses, receives a majority of the entity s expected residual returns, or both, as a result of holding variable interests.      Significant judgment is required in the determination of whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. If the Company, together with its related
party relationships, is determined to be the primary beneficiary of a VIE, the entity will be consolidated within BlackRock s consolidated financial statements. In order to determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of a VIE,
management must make significant estimates and assumptions of probable future cash flows and assign probabilities to different cash flow scenarios. Assumptions made in such analyses include, but are not limited to, market prices of securities,
market interest rates, potential credit defaults on individual securities or default rates on a portfolio of securities, gain realization, liquidity or marketability of certain securities, discount rates and the probability of certain other
outcomes.         
   89   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)          Critical Accounting Policies (continued)         Consolidation (continued)        As of December 31, 2009, the Company was the primary
beneficiary of one VIE, a private equity fund of funds, resulting in the consolidation of the fund on its consolidated financial statements.      The Company, as general partner or managing member of its funds, is generally presumed to control funds that are limited partnerships or limited liability companies. Pursuant to ASC 810-20,  Control of Partnerships and Similar
Entities  ( ASC 810-20 ), the Company reviews such investment vehicles to determine if such a presumption can be overcome by determining if other non-affiliated partners or members of the limited partnership or limited liability company
have the substantive ability to dissolve (liquidate) the investment vehicle, or otherwise to remove BlackRock as the general partner or managing member without cause based on a simple unaffiliated majority vote, or have other substantive
participating rights. If the investment vehicle is not a VIE and the presumption of control is not overcome, the investment vehicle will be consolidated into BlackRock s financial statements.      At December 31, 2009 and 2008, as a result of consolidation of various investment products under the consolidation policies described above, the
Company had the following balances on its consolidated statements of financial condition:       
    The Company has retained the specialized accounting of these investment funds pursuant to ASC 810-10.        Investments         Equity Method Investments       For equity investments where BlackRock does not control the investee, and where the Company is not
the primary beneficiary of a VIE, but can exert significant influence over the financial and operating policies of the investee, the Company uses the equity method of accounting. The evaluation of whether the Company exerts control or significant
influence over the financial and operational policies of its investees requires significant judgment based on the facts and circumstances surrounding each individual investment. Factors considered in these evaluations may include the type of
investment, the legal structure of the investee, the terms and structure of the investment agreement including investor voting or other rights, the terms of BlackRock s advisory agreement or other agreements with the investee, any influence
BlackRock may have on the governing board of the investee, the legal rights of other investors in the entity pursuant to the fund s operating documents and the relationship between BlackRock and other investors in the entity.         
   90   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

    Critical Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Investments (continued)           

    Equity Method Investments (continued)          
   Substantially all of BlackRock s equity method investees are investment companies which record
their underlying investments at fair value. Therefore, under the equity method of accounting, BlackRock s share of the investee s underlying net income predominantly represents fair value adjustments in the investments held by the equity
method investees. BlackRock s share of the investee s underlying net income or loss is based upon the most currently available information and is recorded as non-operating income (expense) for investments in investment companies, or as
other revenue for operating or advisory company investments, which are recorded in other assets, since such operating or advisory companies are considered to be connected to BlackRock s core business.      At December 31, 2009, the Company had $405 million and $36 million of equity method investments, including equity method investments held for deferred
compensation, reflected within investments and other assets, respectively, and at December 31, 2008 the Company had $531 million and $14 million of equity method investees reflected in investments and other assets, respectively.       Impairment of Investments       The Company s management periodically assesses its equity method, available-for-sale, held-to-maturity and cost investments for impairment. If circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, investments are evaluated using market
values, where available, or the expected future cash flows of the investment. If the undiscounted expected future cash flows are lower than the Company s carrying value of the investment, an impairment charge is recorded to the consolidated
statements of income.      When the fair value of an available-for-sale security is lower than its cost or amortized cost value, the Company
evaluates the security to determine whether the impairment is considered  other-than-temporary .      In making this determination for
equity securities, the Company considers, among other factors, the length of time the security has been in a loss position, the extent to which the security s market value is less than its cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects
of the security s issuer and the Company s ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery of such unrealized losses. If the impairment is considered other-than-temporary, a charge is recorded
to the consolidated statements of income.      In making this determination for debt securities, the Company considers if it: (1) has the
intent to sell the security, (2) is more likely than not that an entity will be required to sell the security before recovery, or (3) does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If the Company does not
intend to sell a security and it is not more likely than not that the entity will be required to sell the security, but the security has suffered a credit loss, the impairment charge will be separated into the credit loss component, which would be
recorded in earnings, and the remaining portion would be recorded in other comprehensive income.         
   91   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

    Critical Accounting Policies (continued)          

    Impairment of Investments (continued)          
   For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company recorded other-than-temporary
impairments of $5 million, including $2 million related to credit loss impairments on debt securities, $8 million and $16 million, respectively, related to debt securities and CDO available-for-sale investments, which were recorded in non-operating
income (expense) on the consolidated statements of income.      The $2 million credit loss impairment in 2009 was determined by comparing the
estimated discounted cash flows versus the amortized cost for each individual security. The other-than-temporary impairments related to debt securities were due to adverse credit conditions for a debt instrument that was purchased from an enhanced
cash management fund in which the Company determined that it did not have the ability to hold the securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery of such unrealized losses.      Evaluations of securities impairments involves significant assumptions and management judgments, which could differ from actual results, and these
differences could have a material impact on the Company s consolidated statements of income.        Fair Value
Measurements        BlackRock adopted the applicable provisions of ASC 820-10,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures  ( ASC
820-10 ), as of January 1, 2008, which require, among other things, enhanced disclosures about assets and liabilities that are measured and reported at fair value. The provisions of ASC 820-10 establish a hierarchy that prioritizes inputs
to valuation techniques used to measure fair value and requires companies to disclose the fair value of their financial instruments according to a fair value hierarchy (i.e., Level 1, 2 and 3 inputs, as defined). The fair value hierarchy gives the
highest priority to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs. Additionally, companies are required to provide enhanced disclosure regarding instruments in the
Level 3 category (which have inputs to the valuation techniques that are unobservable and require significant management judgment), including a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances separately for each major category of assets and
liabilities.      Financial instruments measured and reported at fair value are classified and disclosed in one of the following categories:
     Level 1 Inputs - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the reporting date. Level
1 assets include listed mutual funds and equities.      Level 2 Inputs - Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active
markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities that are not active; and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable, such as models or other valuation methodologies. Assets that generally are included in this category
may include debt securities, short-term floating rate notes and asset-backed securities, securities held within consolidated hedge funds, certain limited partnership interests in hedge funds in which the valuations for substantially all of the
investments within the fund are based upon Level 1 or Level 2 inputs, restricted public securities valued at a discount, as well as over-the-counter derivatives, including interest and inflation rate swaps and foreign exchange currency contracts
that have inputs to the valuations that can be generally corroborated by observable market data.      Level 3 Inputs - Unobservable
inputs for the valuation of the asset or liability, which may include non-binding broker quotes. Level 3 assets include investments for which there is little, if any, market activity. These inputs require significant management judgment or
estimation. Assets included in this category generally include general and limited partnership interests in private equity funds, funds of private equity funds, real estate funds, hedge funds, and funds of hedge funds, direct private equity
investments held within consolidated funds and certain held for sale real estate disposal assets.         
   92   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

    Critical Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Fair Value Measurements (continued)           
   Level 3 inputs include BlackRock capital accounts for its partnership interests in various alternative
investments. BlackRock s $687 million of Level 3 investments at December 31, 2009 primarily include co-investments in private equity fund of funds and private equity funds, funds of hedge funds as well as funds that invest in distressed
credit and mortgage securities and real estate equity products. Many of these investees are investment companies, which record their underlying investments at fair value based on fair value policies established by management of the underlying fund,
which could include BlackRock employees. Fair value policies at the underlying fund generally utilize pricing information from third party sources, however, in some instances current valuation information, for illiquid securities or securities in
markets that are not active, may not be available from any third party source or fund management may conclude that the valuations that are available from third party sources are not reliable. In these instances fund management may perform
model-based analytical valuations that may be used to value these investments.      The Company s assessment of the significance of a
particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the financial instrument.      During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company reclassified approximately $22 million of net investments out of Level 3. The majority of the net reclassification was related to an equity method investment, for which the Company
determined that the capital account of the investment fund no longer represented fair value as determined under fair value methodologies.      Changes in value on approximately $932 million of investments will impact the Company s non-operating income (expense), approximately $73 million will impact accumulated other comprehensive income and the $44 million remainder are not
held at fair value. As of December 31, 2009, changes in fair value of approximately $463 million of such investments within consolidated sponsored investment funds will also impact BlackRock s non-controlling interests expense on the
consolidated statements of income. BlackRock s net exposure to changes in fair value of such consolidated sponsored investment funds is $258 million.      BlackRock reports its investments on a GAAP basis, which includes investment balances, which are owned by sponsored investment funds that are deemed to be controlled by BlackRock in accordance with GAAP
and therefore are consolidated even though BlackRock may not own a majority of such funds. As a result, management reviews its investments on an  economic  basis, which eliminates the portion of investments that do not impact
BlackRock s book value. BlackRock s management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.         
   93   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

    Critical Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Fair Value Measurements (continued)           
   The following table represents investments measured at fair value on a recurring basis at
December 31, 2009:       

(1)     
    Consists of net assets attributable to non-controlling investors of consolidated sponsored investment funds.      

(2)     
    Includes BlackRock s portion of cash and cash equivalents, investments, other assets, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and other
liabilities that are consolidated from sponsored investment funds.      

(3)     
    Comprised of equity method investments, which include investment companies, and other assets, which in accordance with GAAP are not accounted for under
a fair value measure. In accordance with GAAP, certain equity method investees do not account for both their financial assets and financial liabilities under fair value measures, therefore the Company s investment in such equity method
investees may not represent fair value.           Goodwill and Intangible Assets        At December 31, 2009, the carrying amounts of the Company s goodwill and intangible assets were as follows:       
       
   94   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

    Critical Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Goodwill and Intangible Assets (continued)           
   The value of contracts acquired in a business acquisition to manage assets in proprietary open- and
closed-end investment funds as well as common trust funds without a specified termination date is classified as an indefinite-lived intangible asset. The assignment of indefinite lives to such investment fund contracts is based upon the assumption
that there is no foreseeable limit on the contract period to manage these funds due to the likelihood of continued renewal at little or no cost. Goodwill represents the cost of a business acquisition in excess of the fair value of the net assets
acquired. In accordance with the applicable provisions of ASC 350,  Intangibles - Goodwill and Other  ( ASC 350 ), indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized. Finite-lived management contracts are amortized over
their remaining expected useful lives, which, at December 31, 2009, ranged from 4 years to 15 years with a weighted average remaining estimated useful life of 7.2 years.       Goodwill       The Company
assesses its goodwill for impairment at least annually, considering such factors as the book value and the market capitalization of the Company. At July 31, 2009 the impairment test that was performed indicated no impairment charges were
required. The Company continues to monitor its book value per share as compared to closing prices of its common stock for potential indicators of impairment. At December 31, 2009 the Company s common stock closed at $232.20, which exceeded
its book value of approximately $128.86 per share.       Indefinite-lived and finite-lived intangibles       The Company assesses its indefinite-lived management contracts for impairment at least annually, considering such factors as AUM, product mix, product
margins, and projected cash flows to determine whether the values of each asset are impaired and whether the indefinite-life classification is still appropriate. The fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is determined based on the
discounted value of expected future cash flows. The fair value of finite-lived intangible assets is reviewed at least annually to determine whether circumstances exist, which indicate there may be a potential impairment. In addition, if such
circumstances are considered to exist, the Company will perform an impairment test, using an undiscounted cash flow analysis. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the difference between the book value of the asset and its current fair value is
recognized as an expense in the period in which the impairment is determined.      Expected future cash flows are estimated using many variables,
which require significant management judgment, including market interest rates, equity prices, credit default ratings, discount rates, revenue multiples, inflation rates and AUM growth rates. Actual results could differ from these estimates, which
could materially impact the impairment conclusion. In 2009, 2008 and 2007 the Company performed impairment tests, which indicated no impairment charges were required. The Company continues to monitor various factors, including AUM, for potential
indicators of impairment.      In addition, management judgment is required to estimate the period over which intangible assets will contribute to
the Company s cash flows and the pattern in which these assets will be consumed. A change in the remaining useful life of any of these assets, or the reclassification of an indefinite-lived intangible asset to a finite-lived intangible asset,
could have a significant impact on the Company s amortization expense, which was $147 million, $146 million and $130 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.         
   95   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

    Critical Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Income Taxes           
   The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method prescribed by ASC 740.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amount of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases using
currently enacted tax rates. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.      BlackRock adopted the applicable provisions of ASC 740 on January 1, 2007 related to uncertainties in income taxes. ASC 740 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a
company s financial statements. ASC 740 prescribes a threshold for measurement and recognition in the financial statements of an asset or liability resulting from a tax position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return. ASC 740
also provides guidance on, among other things, de-recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities and interest and penalties on uncertain tax positions.      The application of ASC 740 requires management to make estimates of the ranges of possible outcomes, the probability of favorable or unfavorable tax outcomes and potential interest and penalties related
to such unfavorable outcomes, which require significant management judgment. Actual future tax consequences of uncertain tax positions may be materially different than the Company s current estimates. At December 31, 2009, BlackRock had
$285 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which $184 million, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate.      In accordance
with ASC 740, management is required to estimate the timing of the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities, make assumptions about the future deductibility of deferred tax assets and assess deferred tax liabilities based on enacted tax
rates for the appropriate tax jurisdictions to determine the amount of such deferred tax assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2009, the Company had net deferred tax assets of $23 million and net deferred tax liabilities of approximately
$5,526 million on the consolidated statements of financial condition. Changes in the calculated deferred tax assets and liabilities may occur in certain circumstances, including statutory income tax rate changes, statutory tax law changes, changes
in the anticipated timing of recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in the structure or tax status of the Company. ASC 740 requires the Company to assess whether a valuation allowance should be established against its deferred
tax assets based on consideration of all available evidence, both positive and negative, using a more likely than not standard. This assessment considers, among other matters, the nature, frequency and severity of recent losses, forecast of future
profitability, the duration of statutory carry back and carry forward periods, the Company s experience with tax attributes expiring unused, and tax planning alternatives.      As of December 31, 2009, the Company has recorded a deferred tax asset of $163 million for unrealized investment losses however no valuation allowance has been established because the Company expects
to be able to carry back a portion of its unrealized capital losses when realized, hold certain equity method investments which include fixed income securities over a period sufficient for them to recover their unrealized losses, and generate future
capital gains sufficient to offset the unrealized capital losses. Based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will be realized. However, changes in circumstance could cause the Company to revalue
its deferred tax balances with the resulting change impacting the income statement in the period of the change. Such changes may be material to the Company s consolidated financial statements. See Note 21 to the consolidated financial
statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K for further details.      Further, the Company records its income taxes based upon its
estimated income tax liability or benefit. The Company s actual tax liability or benefit may differ from the estimated income tax liability or benefit. The Company had current income taxes receivable of approximately $271 million and current
income taxes payable of $96 million at December 31, 2009.         
   96   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

    Critical Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Revenue Recognition           
   Investment advisory and administration fees are recognized as the services are performed. Such fees are
based on pre-determined percentages of the market value of AUM or, in the case of certain real estate separate accounts, net operating income generated by the underlying properties, and are affected by changes in AUM, including market appreciation
or depreciation and net subscriptions or redemptions. Investment advisory and administration fees for investment funds are shown net of fees waived pursuant to contractual expense limitations of the funds or voluntary waivers. Certain real estate
fees are earned upon the acquisition or disposition of properties in accordance with applicable investment management agreements and are recognized at the closing of the respective real estate transactions.      The Company contracts with third parties, as well as related parties, for various mutual fund distribution and shareholder servicing to be performed on
behalf of certain non-U.S. funds managed by the Company. Such arrangements generally are priced as a portion of the management fee paid by the fund. In certain cases, the fund takes on the primary responsibility for payment for services such that
BlackRock bears no credit risk to the third party. The Company accounts for such retrocession arrangements in accordance with ASC 605-45,  Revenue Recognition   Principle Agent Considerations  ( ASC 605-45 ), and records its
investment advisory and administration fees net of retrocessions. Retrocessions for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $611 million, $762 million and $780 million, respectively. The Company has additional contracts for
similar services with third parties, which due to the terms of the contracts, are recorded as distribution and servicing costs on the consolidated statements of income.      The Company earns revenue by lending securities on behalf of clients, primarily to brokerage institutions. Such revenues are accounted for on an accrual basis. The securities loaned are secured by
collateral in the form of cash and securities, ranging from 102% to 108% of the value of the loaned securities. The net income earned on the collateral is shared between the Company and the funds or other third-party accounts managed by the Company
from which the securities are borrowed. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, securities lending revenue totaled $36 million, $25 million and $27 million, respectively, and is recorded in investment advisory, administration fees
and securities lending revenue on the consolidated statements of income.      Investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending
revenue are reported together as the fees for these services are often agreed upon with clients as a bundled fee.      The Company may also
receive performance fees or incentive allocations from certain actively managed investment funds and certain separately managed accounts which are primarily alternative, equity or multi-asset class products. These performance fees generally are
earned upon exceeding specified relative or absolute investment return thresholds. Such fees are recorded upon completion of the measurement periods, which vary by product or account and could be monthly, quarterly, annually or longer. For the years
ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, performance fee revenue totaled $202 million, $177 million and $350 million, respectively.      In
addition, the Company may receive carried interest in the form of an investment capital allocation or cash from certain alternative investment funds upon exceeding performance thresholds. However, BlackRock may be required to return all, or part, of
such carried interest depending upon performance of these investment products in future periods. Therefore, BlackRock records carried interest subject to such claw-back provisions as performance fees on its consolidated statements of income upon the
earlier of the termination of the alternative investment fund or when the likelihood of claw-back is mathematically improbable. The Company records a deferred carried interest liability to the extent it receives cash or capital allocations prior to
meeting the revenue recognition criteria. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had $13 million and $21 million, respectively, of deferred carried interest recorded in other liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial
condition. The ultimate recognition of revenue, if any, for these products is unknown.         
   97   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)            

    Critical Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Revenue Recognition (continued)           
   Fees earned for  BlackRock Solutions , which include advisory services, are recorded as services
are performed and are determined using some, or all, of the following methods: (i) fixed fees, (ii) percentages of various attributes of advisory assets under management and (iii) performance fees if contractual thresholds are met.
Revenue earned on advisory assignments was comprised of one-time advisory and portfolio structuring fees and ongoing fees based on AUM of the respective portfolio assignment. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,  BlackRock
Solutions  and advisory revenue totaled $477 million, $393 million and $190 million, respectively.      Adjustments to revenue arising from
initial estimates historically have been immaterial since the majority of BlackRock s investment advisory and administration revenue is calculated based on the fair value of AUM and since the Company does not record revenues until performance
thresholds have been exceeded and the likelihood of claw-back of carried interest is mathematically improbable.       Related
Party Transactions       See related party transactions discussion in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of
this Form 10-K.         
   98   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK           AUM Market Price Risk        BlackRock s investment management revenues are comprised
of fees based on a percentage of the value of AUM and, in some cases, performance fees expressed as a percentage of the returns realized on AUM. At December 31, 2009, the majority of our investment advisory and administration fees were based on
average or period end AUM of the applicable investment funds or separate accounts. Movements in equity market prices, interest rates/credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, or all three could cause the value of AUM to decline, which would result in
lower investment advisory and administration fees.        Corporate Investments Portfolio Risks        As a leading investment management firm, BlackRock devotes significant resources across all of its operations to identifying, measuring, monitoring, managing
and analyzing market and operating risks, including the management and oversight of its own investment portfolio. The Board of Directors of the Company has adopted guidelines for the review of investments to be made by the Company, requiring, among
other things, that all investments be reviewed by the Company s Capital Committee, which consists of senior officers of the Company, and that certain investments may be referred to the Audit Committee or the Board of Directors depending on the
circumstances for approval.      In the normal course of its business, BlackRock is exposed to equity market price risk, interest rate/credit
spread risk and foreign exchange rate risk associated with its corporate investments.      BlackRock has investments primarily in sponsored
investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes including real estate, private equity and hedge funds. Investments generally are made for co-investment purposes, to establish a performance track record, to hedge exposure to certain
deferred compensation plans or for regulatory purposes. Currently, the Company has a seed capital hedging program in which it enters into total return swaps to hedge exposure to certain equity investments. At December 31, 2009, the outstanding
total return swaps had an aggregate notional value of approximately $36 million.         
   99   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (continued)           Corporate Investments Portfolio Risks        At December 31, 2009, approximately $463 million of BlackRock s total investments were maintained in sponsored investment funds that are deemed to be controlled by BlackRock in accordance with
GAAP and therefore are consolidated even though BlackRock may not own a majority of such funds. Excluding the impact of investments made to hedge exposure to certain deferred compensation plans and certain equity investments that are hedged via the
seed capital hedging program, the Company s net economic exposure to its investment portfolio is as follows:       
    The net  economic  investment exposure of the portfolio is presented in either the market price or the
interest rate/credit spread risk disclosures below:       Market Price Risk       At December 31, 2009, the Company s net exposure to market price risk in its investment portfolio was approximately $455 million of the
Company s net economic investment exposure. Investments that are subject to market price risk include public equity and real estate investments as well as certain hedge funds. The Company estimates that a 10% adverse change in market prices
would result in a decrease of approximately $45.5 million in the carrying value of such investments.       Interest Rate/Credit
Spread Risk       At December 31, 2009, the Company was exposed to interest-rate risk and credit spread risks as a result of approximately
$282 million of investments in debt securities and sponsored investment products that invest primarily in debt securities. Management considered a hypothetical 100 basis point fluctuation in interest rates or credit spreads and estimates that the
impact of such a fluctuation on these investments, in the aggregate, would result in a decrease, or increase, of approximately $5 million in the carrying value of such investments.       Foreign Exchange Rate Risk       As discussed above, the Company invests in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes. The carrying value of the net economic investment exposure denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British
pound sterling, Korean won and Australian dollars, was $89 million. A 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates would result in approximately a $9 million decline in the carrying value of such investments.         
   100   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA         The report of the independent registered public accounting firm and financial statements listed in the accompanying index are included in Item 15 of this report. See Index to the consolidated financial statements on page F-1 of this
Form 10-K.       

Item 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE         There have been no disagreements on accounting and financial disclosure matters. BlackRock has not changed accountants in the two most recent fiscal years.       

Item 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES           Disclosure Controls and Procedures        Under the direction of BlackRock s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, BlackRock evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d - 15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this annual report on Form 10-K.
Based on this evaluation, BlackRock s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that BlackRock s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.        Internal Control and Financial Reporting        Other than the integration of certain information technology systems and processes of the acquired BGI business to those of BlackRock, there have been no changes in internal control over financial
reporting during the latest fiscal quarter that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect, such internal control over financial reporting. Certain controls of the BGI business have been excluded from Management s
annual report on internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, in accordance with SEC guidance on the exclusion of an acquired business from a company s internal control over financial reporting.
BlackRock is continuing to evaluate its internal controls as well as the internal controls of the acquired BGI business as BlackRock integrates the BGI business into the existing BlackRock business.         
   101   

Table of Contents  

Item 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES (continued)          Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Management of
BlackRock, Inc. (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the Company s board of
directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America and includes those policies and procedures that:       

pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
Company;          

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with the authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and      

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.         Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      Management assessed the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
in  Internal Control-Integrated Framework .      On December 1, 2009, BlackRock acquired Barclays Global Investors business
( BGI ). Management s assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include a review of certain business process controls of BGI, which are relevant to the Company s 2009
consolidated financial statements. Management did not assess certain aspects of BGI s internal control over financial reporting as SEC guidelines permit excluding an acquired business from such assessment when those acquisitions closed within
the year prior to the date of the financial statements and time does not permit such assessment. The aspects of BGI s internal control over financial reporting that were not assessed represent approximately 12% of total assets at
December 31, 2009 and approximately 7% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009.      Based on this assessment, management
concluded that, as of December 31, 2009, the Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective.      The Company s
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. This report begins on page 103.      March 10, 2010         
   102   

Table of Contents  

Item 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES (continued)          REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of BlackRock, Inc.:
     We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of BlackRock, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31,
2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As described in Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting, management excluded from its assessment certain aspects of the internal control over financial reporting of the Barclays Global Investors business, which was acquired on December 1, 2009 and whose financial statements constitute 12%
of total assets and 7% of revenues of the consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009. Accordingly, our audit did not include certain aspects of the internal control over financial reporting of the
Barclays Global Investors business. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included
in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets
that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial
reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness
of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
     In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2009, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated statement of financial condition as of December 31, 2009 and
the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders  equity and cash flows for the year then ended of the Company and our report dated March 10, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those
consolidated financial statements.      /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP      New York, New York      March 10, 2010         
   103   

Table of Contents  

Item 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         The Company is
furnishing no other information in this Form 10-K.       Part III        

Item 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE         The information regarding directors and executive officers set forth under the captions  Item 1: Election of Directors - Information Concerning the Nominees and Directors  and  Item 1:
Election of Directors - Other Executive Officers  of the Proxy Statement in connection with the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the  Proxy Statement ) is incorporated herein by reference.      The information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act set forth under the caption  Item 1: Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance  of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.      The information regarding BlackRock s
Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers under the caption  Item 1: Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION         The information
contained in the sections captioned  Item 1: Compensation of Executive Officers  and  Item 1: 2009 Director Compensation  of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS         The information contained in the sections captioned  Item 1: Ownership of BlackRock Common and Preferred Stock  and  Equity Compensation Plan
Information  of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         The information contained in the sections captioned  Item 1: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  and  Item 1: Director Independence  of the Proxy Statement is incorporated
herein by reference.       

Item 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES         The information regarding BlackRock s independent auditor fees and services in the section captioned  Item 4: Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  of the Proxy Statement is
incorporated herein by reference.         
   104   

Table of Contents  

    Part IV        

Item 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES           1. Financial Statements        The Company s consolidated financial statements are
included beginning on pages F-1.        2. Financial Statement Schedules        Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges has been included as Exhibit 12.1. All other schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable, not required or
the information required is included in the Company s consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.         
   105   

Table of Contents  

Item 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES (continued)           3. Exhibit Index        As used in this exhibit list,  BlackRock  refers to
BlackRock, Inc. (formerly named New BlackRock, Inc. and previously, New Boise, Inc.) (Commission File No. 001-15305) and  Old BlackRock  refers to BlackRock Holdco 2, Inc. (formerly named BlackRock, Inc.) (Commission File
No. 001-33099), which is the predecessor of BlackRock. The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:      Please note that the agreements included as exhibits to this Form 10-K are included to provide information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about BlackRock or the other
parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement that have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and may not describe the
actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time.       
       
   106   

Table of Contents  

Item 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES (continued)           3. Exhibit Index (continued)         

Exhibit No.    
     
     Description     

10.4(5)  
     
  Amendment No. 2 to the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+   

10.5(5)  
     
  Amendment No. 3 to the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+   

10.6(5)  
     
  Amendment No. 4 to the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+   

10.7(5)  
     
  BlackRock, Inc. Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of January 1, 2005.+   

10.8(5)  
     
  BlackRock, Inc. Involuntary Deferred Compensation Plan.+   

10.9(2)  
     
  Form of Stock Option Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Stock Options under the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+   

10.10(2)  
     
  Form of Restricted Stock Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Restricted Stock under the BlackRock 1999, Inc. Stock Award and Incentive
Plan.+   

10.11(11)  
     
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Restricted Stock Units under the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and Incentive
Plan.+   

10.12(11)  
     
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Restricted Stock Units for long-term incentive awards under the BlackRock, Inc. 1999
Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+   

10.13(2)  
     
  Form of Directors  Restricted Stock Unit Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Restricted Stock Units under the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and
Incentive Plan.+   

10.14(12)  
     
  BlackRock International, Ltd. Amended and Restated Long-Term Deferred Compensation Plan.+   

10.15(13)  
     
  Amendment No. 1 to the BlackRock International, Ltd. Amended and Restated Long-Term Deferred Compensation Plan.+   

10.16(2)  
     
  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2006, among BlackRock, Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. and the PNC Financial Service Group, Inc.   

10.17(14)  
     
  Agreement of Lease, dated May 3, 2000, between 40 East 52nd Street L.P. and Old BlackRock.   

10.18(15)  
     
  Agreement of Lease, dated September 4, 2001, between 40 East 52nd Street L.P. and Old BlackRock.   

10.19(16)  
     
  Share Surrender Agreement, dated October 10, 2002 (the  Share Surrender Agreement ), among Old BlackRock, PNC Asset Management, Inc. and The PNC Financial Services Group,
Inc.+   

10.20(1)  
     
  First Amendment, dated as of February 15, 2006, to the Share Surrender Agreement.+   

10.21(17)  
     
  Second Amendment, dated as of June 11, 2007, to the Share Surrender Agreement.+          

   107   

Table of Contents  

Item 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES (continued)           3. Exhibit Index (continued)         

Exhibit No.    
     
     Description     

10.22(3)  
     
  Third Amendment, dated as of February 27, 2009, to the Share Surrender Agreement. +   

10.23(18)  
     
  Amended and Restated, BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Annual Incentive Performance Plan. +   

10.24(19)  
     
  Amendment No. 1 to the BlackRock, Inc. Amended and Restated 1999 Annual Incentive Performance Plan.+   

10.25(20)  
     
  Agreement of Lease, dated July 29, 2004, between Park Avenue Plaza Company L.P. and Old BlackRock.   

10.26(20)  
     
  Letter Agreement, dated July 29, 2004, amending the Agreement of Lease between Park Avenue Plaza Company L.P. and Old BlackRock.   

10.27(21)  
     
  Transition Services Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2006, by and between Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. and BlackRock.   

10.28(22)  
     
  Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 26, 2007, by and among BlackRock, BAA Holdings, LLC and Quellos Holdings, LLC.   

10.29(23)  
     
  Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of August 22, 2007, by and among BlackRock, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender and issuing
lender, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Japanese Yen lender, a group of lenders, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as syndication
agent, and HSBC Bank USA, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Morgan Stanley Bank, as documentation agents.   

10.30(24)  
     
  Amended and Restated Global Distribution Agreement, dated as of July 16, 2008, between Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. and BlackRock.   

10.31(3)  
     
  Amended and Restated Implementation and Stockholder Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2009, between The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and BlackRock.   

10.32(3)  
     
  Second Amended and Restated Stockholder Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2009, among BlackRock, Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. and Merrill Lynch Group, Inc.   

10.33(25)  
     
  Amendment No. 1, dated as of June 11, 2009, to the Second Amended and Restated Stockholder Agreement by and among Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc., Merrill Lynch Group, Inc. and
BlackRock.   

10.34(25)  
     
  Amendment No. 1, dated as of June 11, 2009, to the Amended and Restated Implementation and Stockholder Agreement between The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and
BlackRock.   

10.35(26)  
     
  Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 11, 2009, between The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and BlackRock.   

10.35(27)  
     
  Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between BlackRock and Barclays Capital Inc., dated as of October 14, 2009.   

10.36(28)  
     
  Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 16, 2009, by and among Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays PLC (solely for the purposes of Section 6.16, Section 6.18 and
Section 6.24) and BlackRock.   

10.37(28)  
     
  Stockholder Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2009, by and among BlackRock, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays BR Holdings S. .r.l.   

10.38(28)  
     
  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2009, by and among BlackRock, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays BR Holdings S. .r.l.          
   108   

Table of Contents  

Item 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES (continued)           3. Exhibit Index (continued)         

Exhibit No.    
      
     Description     

10.39  
      
  Lease Agreement, dated as of February 17, 2010, among BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited and Mourant   Co Trustees Limited and Mourant Property Trustees Limited as
Trustees of the Drapers Gardens Unit Trust for the lease of Drapers Gardens, 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London, EC2, United Kingdom.   

12.1  
      
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.   

21.1  
      
  Subsidiaries of Registrant   

23.1  
      
  Deloitte   Touche LLP Consent   

31.1  
      
  Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.   

31.2  
      
  Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.   

32.1  
      
  Section 906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.   

101.INS  
      
  XBRL Instance Document   

101.SCH  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document   

101.CAL  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document   

101.DEF  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document   

101.LAB  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document   

101.PRE  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document        

(1)  
  Incorporated by reference to Old BlackRock s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 22, 2006.     

(2)  
  Incorporated by reference to BlackRock s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 5, 2006.     

(4)  
  Incorporated by reference to BlackRock s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 3, 2009.     

109   

Table of Contents  

Item 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES (continued)           4. Exhibit Index (continued)         

(21)  
  Incorporated by reference to BlackRock s Registration Statement on Form S-4, as amended, originally filed on June 9, 2006.     

+  
  Denotes compensatory plans or arrangements           
   110   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

BLACKROCK, INC.   

By:  
     
  / S /    L AURENCE  D.
F INK            

Laurence D. Fink    

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director    
 
        March 10, 2010        Each of the officers and directors of BlackRock, Inc. whose signature appears below, in so signing, also makes, constitutes and appoints Laurence D. Fink,
Ann Marie Petach and Robert P. Connolly, his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact, with full power and substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to execute and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission any and all amendments
to the Annual Report on Form 10-K, with exhibits thereto and other documents connected therewith and to perform any acts necessary to be done in order to file such documents, and hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorney-in-fact or his
substitute or substitutes may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/ S /    L AURENCE  D.
F INK               Laurence D. Fink    
      
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)   
     
  March 10, 2010   

/ S /    A NN  M ARIE 
P ETACH               Ann Marie Petach    
      
    Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)   
     
  March 10, 2010   

/ S /    J OSEPH  F ELICIANI ,
J R .              Joseph Feliciani, Jr.    
      
    Managing Director and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)   
     
  March 10, 2010   

/ S /    A BDLATIF  Y.
A L -H AMAD               Abdlatif Y.
Al-Hamad    
      
    Director   
     
  March 10, 2010   

/ S /    M ATHIS 
C ABIALLAVETTA               Mathis Cabiallavetta    
      
    Director   
     
  March 10, 2010   

/ S /    D ENNIS  D.
D AMMERMAN               Dennis D. Dammerman    
      
    Director   
     
  March 10, 2010   

/ S /    W ILLIAM  S.
D EMCHAK               William S. Demchak    
      
    Director   
     
  March 10, 2010   

/ S /    R OBERT  E.
D IAMOND , J R .              Robert E. Diamond,
Jr.    
      
    Director   
     
  March 10, 2010   

/ S /    K ENNETH  B.
D UNN               Kenneth B. Dunn    
      
    Director   
     
  March 10, 2010   

/ S /    M URRY  S.
G ERBER               Murry S. Gerber    
      
    Director   
     
  March 10, 2010   

/ S /    J AMES 
G ROSFELD               James Grosfeld    
      
    Director   
     
  March 10, 2010   

/ S /    R OBERT  S.
K APITO               Robert S. Kapito    
      
    Director   
     
  March 10, 2010   

/ S /    D AVID  H.
K OMANSKY               David H. Komansky    
      
    Director   
     
  March 10, 2010   

/ S /    S ALLIE  L.
K RAWCHECK               Sallie L. Krawcheck    
      
    Director   
     
  March 10, 2010          
   111   

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES (continued)        
       
   112   

Table of Contents  

      TABLE OF CONTENTS        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  F-2   
 
     Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition    
      
  F-3   
 
     Consolidated Statements of Income    
      
  F-5   
 
     Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income    
      
  F-6   
 
     Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity    
      
  F-7   
 
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  F-8   
 
     Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  F-11          
   F-1   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of BlackRock, Inc.:      We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition of BlackRock, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related
consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our
audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of BlackRock, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 10, 2010 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.       
       
   F-2   

Table of Contents  

      BlackRock, Inc.        Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition        (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)        
       
   F-3   

Table of Contents  

    BlackRock, Inc.        Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition (continued)        (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)        
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   F-4   

Table of Contents  

      BlackRock, Inc.        Consolidated Statements of Income        (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)        
    See accompanying notes
to consolidated financial statements.         
   F-5   

Table of Contents  

      BlackRock, Inc.        Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income        (Dollar amounts in millions)        
     
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   F-6   

Table of Contents  

    BlackRock, Inc.        Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity        (Dollar amounts in millions)    
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.       

2     
    Includes $12 of redeemable non-controlling interests acquired in the BGI Transaction on December 1, 2009.            
   F-7   

Table of Contents  

      BlackRock, Inc.        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        (Dollar amounts in millions)        
       
   F-8   

Table of Contents  

    BlackRock, Inc.        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (continued)        (Dollar amounts in millions)        
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.      Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information is as follows:       
       
   F-9   

Table of Contents  

   Supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing transactions is as follows:       
       
   F-10   

Table of Contents  

      BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements        1. Introduction and Basis of Presentation         Business
       BlackRock, Inc. (together, with its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise indicates,  BlackRock  or the
 Company ) provides diversified investment management and securities lending services to institutional clients and to individual investors through various investment vehicles. Investment management services primarily consist of the
management of fixed income, cash management and equity client accounts, the management of a number of open-end and closed-end mutual fund families, exchange traded funds and other non-U.S. equivalent retail products serving the institutional and
retail markets, and the management of other investments funds, including common trusts and alternative funds, developed to serve various customer needs. In addition, BlackRock provides market risk management, financial markets advisory and
enterprise investment system services to a broad base of clients. Financial markets advisory services include valuation services relating to illiquid securities, dispositions and workout assignments (including long-term portfolio liquidation
assignments), risk management and strategic planning and execution.      On October 1, 2007, BlackRock acquired certain assets
and assumed certain liabilities of the fund of funds business of Quellos Group, LLC ( Quellos ) for up to $1,719 million (the  Quellos Transaction ). BlackRock paid Quellos $562.5 million in cash and issued 1,191,785 shares of
BlackRock common stock valued at $188 million. The common stock which is held in escrow for up to three years is available to satisfy certain indemnification obligations of Quellos under the asset purchase agreement. The Quellos business was
combined with the existing BlackRock fund of funds business and the combined platform comprises one of the largest fund of funds platforms in the world.      On January 1, 2009, Bank of America ( Bank of America ) acquired Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. ( Merrill Lynch ). In connection with this transaction, BlackRock entered into
exchange agreements with each of Merrill Lynch and The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ( PNC ) pursuant to which on February 27, 2009 Merrill Lynch and PNC each exchanged a portion of its BlackRock common stock it held for an
equal number of shares of non-voting preferred stock. See Note 19, Capital Stock, for more details on these transactions.      On December 1, 2009, BlackRock completed its acquisition of Barclays Global Investors ( BGI ) from Barclays Bank PLC ( Barclays ) (the  BGI Transaction ). In exchange for BGI, BlackRock paid approximately
$6.65 billion in cash and issued capital stock valued at $8.53 billion comprised of 3,031,516 shares of BlackRock common stock, 26,888,001 shares of BlackRock Series B Participating Preferred Stock and 7,647,254 shares of BlackRock Series D
Participating Preferred Stock to Barclays. See Note 3, Mergers and Acquisitions, for more details on this transaction.      On
December 31, 2009, equity ownership of BlackRock was as follows:       
       
   F-11   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    Basis of Presentation       These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
( GAAP ) and include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries. Non-controlling interests include the portion of consolidated sponsored investment funds in which the Company does not have a direct equity ownership.
Significant accounts and transactions between consolidated entities have been eliminated.      The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.       2. Significant
Accounting Policies         Cash and Cash Equivalents        Cash and cash equivalents primarily consists of cash, money market funds and short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities,
at date of purchase, of three months or less in which the Company is exposed to market and credit risk. Cash and cash equivalent balances that are legally restricted from use by the Company are recorded in other assets on the consolidated statements
of financial condition. Cash balances maintained by consolidated sponsored investment funds are not considered legally restricted and are included in cash and cash equivalents on the consolidated statements of financial condition.        Investments         Investments in Debt and Marketable Equity Securities       BlackRock holds debt and marketable equity investments
which, pursuant to Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) 320-10,  Investments   Debt and Equity Securities,  are classified as trading, available-for-sale, or held-to-maturity based on the Company s intent to sell the
security or, for a debt security, the Company s intent and ability to hold the debt security to maturity.      Trading
securities are those investments which are purchased principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term. Trading securities are carried at fair value on the consolidated statements of financial condition with changes in fair value recorded
in non-operating income in the consolidated statements of income during the period of the change.      Available-for-sale
securities are those securities which are not classified as trading securities or held-to-maturity. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value on the consolidated statements of financial condition with changes in fair value recorded in
the accumulated other comprehensive income component of stockholders  equity in the period of the change. Upon the disposition of an available-for-sale security, the Company reclassifies the gain or loss on the security from accumulated other
comprehensive income to non-operating income on the Company s consolidated statements of income.      Held-to-maturity debt
securities are recorded at amortized cost in the consolidated statements of financial condition.         
   F-12   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Investments (continued)           
    Equity Method       For equity investments where BlackRock does not control the investee, and where it is not the primary beneficiary of a variable interest
entity ( VIE ), but can exert significant influence over the financial and operating policies of the investee, the Company follows the equity method of accounting in accordance with ASC 323,  Investments-Equity Method and Joint
Ventures . Under the equity method of accounting, BlackRock s share of the investee s underlying net income or loss on investment funds is recorded as net gain (loss) on investments within non-operating income (expense) and as other
revenue for operating or advisory company investments since such operating or advisory companies are considered to be connected to BlackRock s core business. The net income of the investee is recorded based upon the most current information
available at the time, which may precede the date of the statement of financial condition. Distributions received from the investment reduce the Company s investment balance.       Cost Method       For equity investments where BlackRock neither controls nor has significant influence over the investee and which are non-marketable, the investments are accounted for using the cost method of accounting. Under the cost method, dividends
received from the investment are recorded as dividend income within non-operating income.       Impairments       The Company s management periodically assesses its equity method, available-for-sale and cost method of accounting investments for
impairment. If circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, investments are evaluated using fair values, where available, or the expected future cash flows of the investment. If the undiscounted expected future cash flows are lower than the
Company s carrying value of the investment, an impairment charge is recorded in non-operating income in the consolidated statements of income.      When the fair value of available-for-sale securities is lower than its cost, the Company evaluates the securities to determine whether the impairment is considered to be  other-than-temporary. 
     In making this determination, for equity securities, the Company considers, among other factors, the length of time the
security has been in a loss position, the extent to which the security s market value is less than its cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the security s issuer and the Company s ability and intent to hold the
security for a length of time sufficient to allow for recovery. If the impairment is considered other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded in non-operating income in the consolidated statements of income.         
   F-13   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Investments (continued)           

    Impairments (continued)          
   In making this determination for debt securities, the Company considers if it:
(1) has the intent to sell the security, (2) is more likely than not that it will be required to sell the security before recovery, or (3) does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If the Company does
not intend to sell a security and it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell the security, but the security has suffered a credit loss, the impairment charge is be separated into the credit loss component, which is recorded in
earnings, and the remaining portion is recorded in other comprehensive income.      The Company reviews its collateralized debt
obligations ( CDO ) investments for impairment quarterly throughout the term of the investment. The Company reviews cash flow estimates throughout the life of each CDO investment. If the net present value of the estimated future cash flows
is lower than the carrying value of the investment and the estimated future cash flows are lower than the previous estimate of cash flows, an impairment is considered to be other-than-temporary. The impairment loss is recognized based on the excess
of the carrying amount of the investment over its estimated fair value.        Consolidation        The accounting method used for the Company s equity investments is generally dependent upon the influence the Company has over its
investee. For investments where BlackRock can exert control over the financial and operating policies of the investee, which generally exists if there is a 50% or greater voting interest, the investee is consolidated into BlackRock s financial
statements. For certain investments where the risks and rewards of ownership are not directly linked to voting interests ( variable interest entities  or  VIEs ), an investee may be consolidated if BlackRock, together with its
related party relationships, is considered the primary beneficiary of the investee. The primary beneficiary determination will consider not only BlackRock s equity interest, but the benefits and risks associated with non-equity components of
the Company s relationship with the investee, including capital support agreements, debt, investment advisory and other similar arrangements, in accordance with ASC 810-10,  Consolidation  ( ASC 810-10 ).      Pursuant to ASC 810-20,  Control of Partnerships and Similar Entities  ( 810-20 ) ,  the Company, as general partner or
managing member of its funds, generally is presumed to control funds that are limited partnerships or limited liability companies that are not deemed to be VIEs. The Company reviews such investment vehicles to determine if such a presumption can be
overcome by determining if third party partners or members of the limited partnership or limited liability company have the substantive ability to dissolve (liquidate) the investment vehicle, or otherwise to remove BlackRock as the general partner
or managing member without cause, or have other substantive participating rights.         
   F-14   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Consolidation (continued)           
    Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds       From time to time, the Company will maintain a controlling interest in a sponsored investment fund. All of the underlying investments held by
consolidated sponsored investment funds are carried at fair value, with corresponding changes in the investments  fair values reflected in non-operating income in the Company s consolidated statements of income. In the absence of a
publicly available market value, fair value for such underlying investments are estimated in good faith by the Company s management based on such factors as the liquidity, financial condition and current and projected operating performance of
the investment and, in the case of private investment fund investments, the fund s net asset value. When the Company no longer controls these funds due to reduced ownership percentage or other reasons, the funds are deconsolidated and accounted
for under another investment accounting method. In addition, changes in fair value of certain illiquid investments held by these funds, including direct investments in equity or debt securities of privately held companies and certain real estate
products, are recorded based upon the most current information available at the time, which may precede the date of the statement of financial position, considering any significant changes in the operations of the investment.      Upon consolidation of various sponsored investment funds, on the Company s consolidated statements of financial condition, the Company
retains the specialized accounting principles of the underlying funds pursuant to ASC 810-10 .         Separate Account
Assets and Liabilities        Two wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company in the United Kingdom are registered life
insurance companies that maintain separate accounts representing segregated funds held for purposes of funding individual and group pension contracts. The separate account assets are not subject to general claims of the creditors of BlackRock. These
accounts and the related liabilities are recorded as separate account assets and separate account liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial condition in accordance with the ASC 944-80,  Financial Services   Separate Accounts.
       The net investment income and net realized and unrealized gains and losses attributable to separate account assets
supporting individual and group pension contracts accrue directly to the contract owner and are not reported as revenue or non-operating income in the consolidated statements of income. Policy administration and management fees associated with
separate account products are included in investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue in the consolidated statements of income.        Collateral Assets Held and Liabilities Under Securities Lending Agreements        The Company facilitates securities lending arrangements whereby securities held by separate account assets discussed above are lent to third parties. In exchange, the Company receives collateral, principally cash and securities, ranging
from 102% to 108% of the value of the securities lent in order to reduce credit risk. Under the Company s securities lending arrangements, the Company can resell or re-pledge the collateral and the borrower can re-sell or re-pledge the loaned
securities. The securities lending transactions entered into by the Company are accompanied by an agreement that entitles and obligates the Company to repurchase or redeem the transferred securities before their maturity. These transactions are not
reported as sales under ASC 860,  Transfers and Servicing  ( ASC 860 ) because of the obligation of the Company to repurchase the securities.         
   F-15   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Collateral Assets Held and Liabilities Under Securities Lending Agreements
(continued)           
   As a result, the Company records the collateral received under these arrangements (both
cash and non-cash), as its own asset in addition to a corresponding liability for the obligation to return the collateral. As with the securities lending collateral discussed above, the fair value of the asset and related obligation to return the
collateral are recorded by the Company. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of loaned securities held by separate account assets was approximately $18 billion and the collateral held under these securities lending agreements was approximately $19.3
billion. The fair value of the collateral liability approximates the fair value of the collateral assets and is recorded in collateral liability under securities lending agreements on the consolidated statements of financial condition.   
    Deferred Mutual Fund Sales Commissions        The Company holds the rights to receive certain cash flows from sponsored mutual funds sold without a front-end sales charge ( back-end load shares ). The carrying value of these deferred mutual
fund commissions is being amortized over periods between one and six years. The Company receives distribution fees from these funds and contingent deferred sales commissions ( CDSCs ) upon shareholder redemption of certain back-end load
shares which are recorded within distribution fees on the consolidated statements of income. Upon receipt of CDSCs, the Company records revenue and the remaining unamortized deferred sales commission is expensed.      In April 2007, the Company acquired from a subsidiary of PNC certain distribution financing arrangements to receive certain cash flows from
sponsored open-ended mutual funds sold without a front-end sales charge. The fair value of these capitalized assets is amortized over periods up to six years. The Company also acquired the rights to related distribution fees from these funds and
CDSCs upon shareholder redemption of certain back-end load shares prior to the end of the contingent deferred sales period. The Company paid $34 million in exchange for the above rights, which is reflected on the consolidated statement of cash flows
as an acquisition within investing activities.      The Company periodically reviews the carrying value of deferred mutual fund
commission assets to determine whether a significant decline in the equity or bond markets or other events or circumstances indicate that an impairment in value may have occurred. If indicators of a potential impairment exist, the Company compares
the carrying value of the asset to the estimated future net undiscounted cash flows related to the asset. If such assessments indicate that estimated future net undiscounted cash flows will not be sufficient to recover the recorded carrying value,
the assets are adjusted to their estimated fair value. No such impairments were recorded for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 or 2007.        Property and Equipment        Property and equipment are recorded at cost
less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation generally is recorded using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the various classes of property and equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method
over the shorter of the estimated useful life or the remaining lease term.         
   F-16   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Property and Equipment (continued)           
    Software Costs       BlackRock develops a variety of risk management, investment analytic and investment system services for internal use, utilizing proprietary
software which is hosted and maintained by BlackRock. The Company follows ASC 350-40,  Internal-Use Software  ( ASC 350-40 ) .  ASC 350-40 requires the capitalization of certain costs incurred in connection with developing or
obtaining software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are included within property and equipment on the consolidated statements of financial condition and are amortized beginning when the software project is complete and put into
production, over the estimated useful life of the software of three years.        Goodwill and Intangible Assets
       Goodwill which represents the excess cost of a business acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired
includes assembled workforce. Intangible assets are comprised of indefinite-lived intangible assets and finite-lived intangible assets. The value of contracts to manage assets in proprietary open-end funds, closed-end funds and collective funds
without a specified termination date is classified as an indefinite-lived intangible asset. The assignment of indefinite lives to such contracts is based upon the assumption that there is no foreseeable limit on the contract period to manage these
funds due to the likelihood of continued renewal at little or no cost. In addition, trade-names/trademarks are considered indefinite-lived intangibles as they are expected to generate cash flows indefinitely. In accordance with ASC 350,
 Intangibles   Goodwill and Other  ( ASC 350 ), indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized. The value of contracts for separately managed accounts and certain alternative funds which have finite lives are
amortized over the expected life of the contracts.      The Company assesses its goodwill, indefinite-lived management contracts
and trade names/trademarks and finite-lived management contracts for impairment at least annually. In its assessment of goodwill for impairment, the Company considers such factors as the book value and market capitalization of the Company. In its
assessment of indefinite-lived management contracts and trade names/trademarks, the Company considers such factors as assets under management, product mix, product margins and projected cash flows to determine whether the values of each asset are
impaired and whether the indefinite-life classification is still appropriate. The fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill is determined based on the discounted value of expected future cash flows. The fair value of finite-lived
management contracts and their remaining useful life is reviewed at least annually to determine if circumstances exist which may indicate a potential impairment. In addition, if circumstances exist, the Company will perform an impairment test, using
an undiscounted cash flow analysis. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the difference between the book value of the asset and its current fair value would be recognized as an expense in the period in which the impairment is determined.
      Change in Method of Applying an Accounting Principle       During 2007, the Company changed the date of its annual impairment tests for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible
assets to July 31   st    in order to provide additional
time for testing due to the significant increase in these assets as a result of recent acquisitions. The Company s management believes that this change in the method of applying an accounting principle is preferable under the circumstances and
does not result in adjustments to the Company s consolidated financial statements when applied retrospectively, nor would it result in the delay, acceleration or avoidance of recording a potential future impairment. This change in the method of
applying ASC 350 had no impact on the consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2007.         
   F-17   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          

    Change in Method of Applying an Accounting Principle (continued)          
   The impairment tests performed as of July 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 indicated that no
impairment charges were required. Due to the capital market events that occurred in 2007 and 2008, the Company performed an additional impairment test as of September 30, 2008 which also indicated no impairment charges were required.
       Assets and Liabilities to be Disposed of by Sale        In the course of the business of establishing real estate and other alternative investment funds, the Company may purchase land, properties
and other assets while incurring liabilities directly associated with the assets, together a disposal group, with the intention to sell the disposal group to sponsored investment funds upon their launch. In accordance with the provisions of ASC
360-10,  Property, Plant and Equipment  ( ASC 360-10 ) ,  the Company treats these assets and liabilities as a  disposal group , measured at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value. Losses are recognized for any
initial or subsequent write-down to fair value and gains are recognized for any subsequent increase in fair value, but not in excess of the cumulative loss previously recognized.      At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company held disposal group assets of $46 million and $64 million in other assets and related
disposal group liabilities of $45 million and $63 million of other liabilities, respectively, on its consolidated statements of financial condition. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, disposal group liabilities included approximately $42 million
and $58 million of borrowings directly associated with the disposal group assets, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded a net loss of $2 million and $14 million, respectively, within non-operating
income (expense) on its consolidated statements of income related to the disposal group, respectively.        Classification
and Measurement of Redeemable Securities        The provisions of ASC 480-10,  Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity
 ( ASC 480-10 ), require temporary equity classification for instruments that are currently redeemable or convertible for cash or other assets at the option of the holder. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company determined that
$49 million and $266 million, respectively, of non-controlling interests related to certain consolidated sponsored investment funds were redeemable at the option of the holder for cash or other assets, resulting in temporary equity classification on
the consolidated statements of financial condition.      The amount of temporary equity related to convertible instruments is
measured as the excess of the amount of cash required to be exchanged in a hypothetical settlement, as of the balance sheet date, over the current carrying amount of the liability component. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the 2.625%
convertible debentures became convertible at the option of the holders into cash and shares of the Company s common stock. The amount of cash required to be paid out in a hypothetical settlement exceeded the current carrying amount of the
liability component by less than $1 million.        Non-controlling interests        Non-controlling interests on the consolidated statements of income includes the income/(loss) allocated to non-controlling interest holders
of the Company s consolidated sponsored investment funds. Non-controlling interests are not adjusted for taxes for consolidated sponsored investment funds that are treated as pass-through entities for tax purposes.         
   F-18   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          
     Treasury Stock        The Company records common stock purchased for treasury at cost. At the date of subsequent reissuance, the treasury stock account is reduced
by the cost of such stock on the average cost method.        Revenue Recognition         Investment Advisory, Administration Fees and Securities Lending Revenue       Investment advisory and administration fees are recognized as the services are performed. Such fees are primarily based on pre-determined
percentages of the market value of the assets under management ( AUM ) or, in the case of certain real estate clients, net operating income generated by the underlying properties. Investment advisory and administration fees are affected by
changes in AUM, including market appreciation or depreciation and net subscriptions or redemptions. Investment advisory and administration fees for investment funds are shown net of fees waived pursuant to contractual expense limitations of the
funds or voluntary waivers. Certain real estate fees are earned upon the acquisition or disposition of properties in accordance with applicable investment management agreements and are generally recognized at the closing of the respective real
estate transactions.      The Company contracts with third parties and related parties for various mutual fund distribution and
shareholder servicing to be performed on behalf of certain funds managed by the Company. Such arrangements generally are priced as a portion of the management fee paid by the fund. In certain cases, the fund takes on the primary responsibility for
payment for services such that BlackRock bears no credit risk to the third party. The Company accounts for such retrocession arrangements in accordance with ASC 605-45,  Revenue Recognition   Principal Agent Considerations  ( ASC
605-45 ) and has recorded its management fees net of retrocessions. Retrocessions for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $611 million, $762 million and $780 million, respectively, and were reflected net in investment
advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue on the consolidated statements of income.      The Company also earns
securities lending revenue by lending securities on behalf of clients, primarily to brokerage institutions. Such revenues are accounted for on an accrual basis. The net income earned on the collateral is shared between the Company and funds or other
third-party accounts managed by the Company from which the securities are borrowed.       Performance Fees       The Company also receives performance fees or an incentive allocation from alternative investment products and certain separately managed
accounts. These performance fees are earned upon exceeding specified relative or absolute investment return thresholds. Such fees are recorded upon completion of the measurement period which varies by product or account.         
   F-19   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Revenue Recognition (continued)           

    Performance Fees (continued)          
   The Company receives carried interest from certain alternative investments upon
exceeding performance thresholds. BlackRock may be required to return all, or part, of such carried interest depending upon future performance of these investments. BlackRock records carried interest subject to such claw-back provisions as
performance fees on its consolidated statements of income upon the earlier of the termination of the alternative investment fund or when the likelihood of claw-back is mathematically improbable. The Company records a deferred carried interest
liability to the extent it receives cash or capital allocations prior to meeting the revenue recognition criteria. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had $13 million and $21 million, respectively, of deferred carried interest recorded
in other liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial condition.       BlackRock Solutions and Advisory
      BlackRock provides a variety of market risk management, investment analytic, enterprise investment
system and financial markets advisory services to financial institutions, pension funds, asset managers, foundations, consultants, mutual fund sponsors, real estate investment trusts and government agencies. These services are provided under the
brand name  BlackRock Solutions       and include a wide array of risk management services, valuation of
illiquid securities, disposition and workouts, strategic planning and execution, and enterprise investment system outsourcing for clients. Fees earned for  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory services are recorded as services are performed and
are determined using some, or all, of the following methods: (i) fixed fees, (ii) percentages of various attributes of advisory AUM and (iii) performance fees if contractual thresholds are met. The fees earned for  BlackRock
Solutions  and advisory services are recorded in  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory on the consolidated statements of income.       Other Revenue       The Company earns fees for transition management services comprised of referral fees or agency
commissions from acting as an introducing broker-dealer in buying and selling securities on behalf of the Company s customers. Commissions and related clearing expenses related to transition management services are recorded on a trade-date
basis as securities transactions occur and are reflected in other revenue on the consolidated statements of income.      The
Company also earns commissions revenue upon the sale of unit trusts and Class A mutual funds. Revenue is recorded at the time of the sale of the product.         
   F-20   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          
     Stock-based Compensation        The Company applies the requirements within ASC 718-10,  Compensation   Stock Compensation  ( ASC 718-10 ) which
establish standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services, primarily focusing on the accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in share-based
payment transactions. Entities are required to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. The cost is recognized over the period during which an
employee is required to provide service (usually the vesting period) in exchange for the stock award.      The Company measures the
grant-date fair value of employee share options and similar instruments using option-pricing models. If an equity award is modified after the grant date, incremental compensation cost is recognized in an amount equal to the excess of the fair value
of the modified award over the fair value of the original award immediately before the modification. The grant-date fair value of restricted stock units is calculated using the Company s share price on the date of grant. Compensation cost is
recorded by the Company on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the award is, in-substance, multiple awards. Awards under the Company s stock-based compensation plans
vest over periods ranging from one to five years. Compensation cost is reduced by the number of awards expected to be forfeited prior to vesting. Forfeiture estimates generally are derived using historical forfeiture information, where available,
and are reviewed for reasonableness at least annually.      The Company amortizes the grant-date fair value of stock-based
compensation awards made to retirement eligible employees over the required service period. Upon notification of retirement, the Company accelerates the unamortized portion of the award over the contractually-required retirement notification period,
if applicable.      The Company pays cash dividend equivalents, that are not subject to vesting, on outstanding restricted stock
units ( RSUs ) granted prior to 2009. ASC 718-10 requires dividend equivalents on RSUs expected to be forfeited to be included in compensation and benefits expense. Dividend equivalents on shares expected to vest are recorded in retained
earnings.        Distribution and Servicing Costs        Distribution and servicing costs include payments to third parties and affiliates, including Merrill Lynch and PNC, primarily associated with
distribution and servicing of client investments in certain BlackRock products. Distribution and servicing costs are expensed when incurred.        Direct Fund Expenses        Direct fund expenses, which are expensed as
incurred, consist primarily of third party non-advisory expenses incurred by BlackRock related to certain funds for the use of certain index trademarks, reference data for certain indices, custodial services, fund administration, fund accounting,
transfer agent services, shareholder reporting services, audit and tax services as well as other fund related expenses directly attributable to the non-advisory operations of the fund.         
   F-21   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          
     Leases        The Company accounts for its operating leases, which may include escalations, in accordance with ASC 840-10,  Leases . The Company
expenses the lease payments associated with operating leases evenly during the lease term (including rent-free periods), beginning on the commencement of the lease term.        Foreign Exchange        Monetary assets and liabilities of foreign
subsidiaries having non-U.S. dollar functional currencies are translated at exchange rates at the date of the consolidated statements of financial condition. Non-monetary assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries having non-U.S. dollar
functional currencies are translated at historical exchange rates. Revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates during the period. Gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements into U.S. dollars
are included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of stockholders  equity on the consolidated statements of financial condition. Gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in general and
administration expense on the consolidated statements of income. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company recorded gains/(losses) from foreign currency transactions of ($11) million, $50 million and $1 million,
respectively.        Income Taxes        The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method prescribed by ASC 740-10,  Income Taxes  ( ASC 740-10 ). Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for
the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases using currently enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which
the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.      Management periodically assesses the recoverability of its deferred tax assets based upon expected future earnings, taxable income in prior
carryback years, future deductibility of the asset, changes in applicable tax laws and other factors. If management determines that it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will be fully recoverable in the future, a valuation
allowance will be established for the difference between the asset balance and the amount expected to be recoverable in the future. This allowance will result in a charge to income tax expense on the Company s consolidated statements of income.
Further, the Company records its income taxes receivable and payable based upon its estimated income tax liability.      BlackRock
adopted the provisions of ASC 740-10 related to uncertainty in income taxes on January 1, 2007. ASC 740-10 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a company s financial statements. ASC 740-10 prescribes a
threshold for measurement and recognition in the financial statements of an asset or liability resulting from a tax position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return. ASC 740-10 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification,
interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition.      Excess tax benefits and shortfalls related
to stock-based compensation are recognized as additional paid in capital and subsequent to the adoption of ASC 740-10 excess tax benefits are reflected as financing cash flows on the consolidated statements of cash flows. If the Company does not
have additional paid-in capital credits (cumulative tax benefits recorded to additional paid-in capital), the Company will record an expense for any deficit between the recorded tax benefit and tax return benefit. At December 31, 2009,
BlackRock had excess additional paid-in capital credits to absorb potential deficits between recorded tax benefits and tax return benefits.         
   F-22   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          
     Earnings per Share ( EPS )        As a result of the retrospective adoption of the new required provisions within ASC 260-10,  Earnings per Share  ( ASC
260-10 ) ,  on January 1, 2009, EPS is calculated pursuant to the two-class method as defined in ASC 260-10 .  See Accounting Policies Adopted in the Year Ended December 31, 2009 below for further information. Basic EPS is
calculated by dividing net distributed and undistributed earnings allocated to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS includes the determinants of basic EPS and, in addition, reflects the impact
of other potentially dilutive shares.      Due to the similarities in terms between BlackRock series A, B, C and D non-voting
participating preferred stock and the Company s common stock, the Company considers each series of non-voting participating preferred stock to be common stock equivalents for purposes of earnings per common share calculations.      In accordance with ASC 260-10, shares of the Company s common stock are not included in basic earnings per common share until
contingencies are resolved and the shares are released. Shares of the Company s common stock are not included in diluted earnings per common share unless the contingency has been met assuming that the contingency period ended on the date of the
consolidated statement of financial condition.        Business Segments        The Company s management directs BlackRock s operations as one business, the asset management business. As such, the Company
operates in one business segment as defined in ASC 280-10,  Segment Reporting .        Fair Value Measurements   
     BlackRock adopted the applicable provisions of ASC 820-10,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures  ( ASC
820-10 ), as of January 1, 2008, which require, among other things, enhanced disclosures about assets and liabilities that are measured and reported at fair value. The provisions of ASC 820-10 establish a hierarchy that prioritizes inputs
to valuation techniques used to measure fair value and requires companies to disclose the fair value of their financial instruments according to a fair value hierarchy (i.e., Level 1, 2 and 3 inputs, as defined). The fair value hierarchy gives the
highest priority to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs. Additionally, companies are required to provide enhanced disclosure regarding instruments in the
Level 3 category (which have inputs to the valuation techniques that are unobservable and require significant management judgment), including a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances separately for each major category of assets and
liabilities.      Financial instruments measured and reported at fair value are classified and disclosed in one of the following
categories:      Level 1 Inputs   Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the
reporting date. Level 1 assets include listed mutual funds and equities.         
   F-23   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          

     Fair Value Measurements (continued)           
   Level 2 Inputs   Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets;
quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities that are not active; and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable, such as models or other valuation methodologies. Assets that generally are included in this category may
include debt securities, short-term floating rate notes and asset-backed securities, securities held within consolidated hedge funds, certain limited partnership interests in hedge funds in which the valuations for substantially all of the
investments within the fund are based upon Level 1 or Level 2 inputs, restricted public securities valued at a discount, as well as over the counter derivatives, including interest and inflation rate swaps and foreign exchange currency contracts
that have inputs to the valuations that can be generally corroborated by observable market data.      Level 3 Inputs  
Unobservable inputs for the valuation of the asset or liability, which may include non-binding broker quotes. Level 3 assets include investments for which there is little, if any, market activity. These inputs require significant management judgment
or estimation. Assets included in this category generally include general and limited partnership interests in private equity funds, funds of private equity funds, real estate funds, hedge funds, and funds of hedge funds, direct private equity
investments held within consolidated funds and certain held for sale real estate disposal assets.      Level 3 inputs include
BlackRock capital accounts for its partnership interests in various alternative investments, including distressed credit hedge funds, real estate and private equity funds which may be adjusted by using the returns of certain market indices. The
various partnerships are investment companies which record their underlying investments at fair value based on fair value policies established by management of the underlying fund. Fair value policies at the underlying fund generally require the
fund to utilize pricing/valuation information, including independent appraisals, from third party sources, however, in some instances current valuation information, for illiquid securities or securities in markets that are not active, may not be
available from any third party source or fund management may conclude that the valuations that are available from third party sources are not reliable. In these instances fund management may perform model-based analytical valuations that may be used
to value these investments.      The Company s assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value
measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the financial instrument.        Fair Value
Option        In February 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued new guidance within ASC
825-10,  Financial Instruments  ( ASC 825-10 ). The relevant provisions within ASC 825-10 permit entities to choose to measure eligible financial assets and liabilities at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the
fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings. The decision to elect the fair value option is determined on an instrument by instrument basis, must be applied to an entire instrument and it is irrevocable once elected. Assets and
liabilities measured at fair value pursuant to ASC 825-10 are required to be reported separately in the statement of financial condition from those instruments measured using another accounting method. The Company adopted the applicable provisions
of ASC 825-10 on January 1, 2008; however, elected not to apply the fair value option to any of its eligible financial assets or liabilities at that date. Therefore, the adoption of the applicable provision of ASC 825-10 had no impact on the
Company s consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2009, the Company has not elected the fair value option for any eligible financial assets or liabilities; however, the Company may elect the fair value option for any future
eligible financial assets or liabilities upon their initial recognition.         
   F-24   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          
     Disclosure of Fair Value        The disclosure requirements within ASC 825-10 require disclosure of estimated fair values of certain financial instruments, both on and off
the consolidated statements of financial condition. For financial instruments recognized at fair value in the statement of financial position, the disclosure requirements of ASC 820-10 also apply.      The methods and assumptions are set forth below:       

Cash and cash equivalents are carried at either cost or amortized cost which approximates fair value due to their short term maturities. Money market
funds are valued through the use of quoted market prices, or $1, which is generally the net asset value of these funds.          

The carrying amounts of receivables, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximates fair value due to their short maturities.

The fair value of marketable investments is based on quoted market prices or broker quotes. If investments are not readily marketable, fair values are
primarily determined based on net asset values of investments in limited partnerships/limited liability companies or by the Company based on management s assumptions or estimates, taking into consideration financial information of the
investment, the industry of the investment, or valuation services from third party service providers. At December 31, 2009, with the exception of certain equity method and cost method investments that are not accounted for under a fair value
measure, the carrying value of investments approximated fair value. See Note 7, Fair Value Disclosures, for more information.           Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities        ASC 815-10,
 Derivatives and Hedging  ( ASC 815-10 ), establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivatives embedded in other contracts and for hedging activities. ASC 815-10 generally requires
an entity to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial condition and to measure those investments at fair value.      The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purpose. The Company uses derivative financial
instruments primarily for purposes of hedging (a) exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of certain assets and liabilities and (b) market exposures for certain investments. The Company may also use derivatives within
separate account assets and liabilities which are segregated funds held for purposes of funding individual and group pension contracts or in connection with capital support agreements with affiliated investment companies. In addition, certain
consolidated sponsored investment funds may also invest in derivatives as a part of their investment strategy.      Changes in the
fair value of the Company s derivative financial instruments are recognized in current earnings and, where applicable, are offset by the corresponding gain or loss on the related foreign-denominated assets or liabilities or hedged investments,
in the consolidated statements of income.        Reclassifications        Certain items previously reported have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.         
   F-25   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          
     Recent Accounting Developments         Accounting Policies Adopted in the Year Ended December 31, 2009         Non-Controlling Interests        In December 2007, the FASB issued new requirements within ASC 810-10, which established accounting and reporting standards for a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a
subsidiary and clarifies that a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity, separate from the parent s equity, in the consolidated financial statements. In
addition, consolidated net income should be adjusted to include the net income attributed to the non-controlling interests. The Company adopted the applicable guidance of ASC 810-10 on January 1, 2009, which required retrospective adoption of
the presentation and disclosure requirements for existing non-controlling interests. All other requirements of ASC 810-10 are applied prospectively. The adoption of the applicable provisions of ASC 810-10 did not impact BlackRock s
stockholders  equity on the consolidated statements of financial condition.        Convertible Debt Instruments   
     In May 2008, the FASB issued new requirements within ASC 470-20, which specify that for convertible debt instruments that may
be settled in cash upon conversion, issuers of such instruments should separately account for the liability and equity components in the statement of financial condition. The excess of the initial proceeds of the convertible debt instrument over the
amount allocated to the liability component creates a debt discount which should be amortized as interest expense over the expected life of the liability. The applicable provisions of ASC 470-20 are effective for financial statements issued for
fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008 and are to be applied retrospectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had $243 million and $249 million principal amount of convertible debentures outstanding,
respectively, which were issued in February 2005, bear interest at a rate of 2.625%, and are due in 2035. The Company retrospectively adopted the required paragraphs of ASC 470-20 on January 1, 2009 resulting in a total cumulative impact of a
$9 million reduction to retained earnings at December 31, 2008. The effective borrowing rate for nonconvertible debt at the time of issuance of the 2.625% convertible debentures was estimated to be 4.3%, which resulted in $18 million of the
$250 million aggregate principal amount of the debentures issued, or $12 million after tax, being attributable to equity. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, less than $1 million and $4 million, respectively, of the initial $18 million debt discount
remained unamortized, and was amortized to the first put date of the convertible debentures in February 2010. As a result, the Company recognized approximately $4 million and $3 million of additional interest expense in each of the years ended
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.         
   F-26   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          

    Accounting Policies Adopted in the Year Ended December 31, 2009 (continued)
         
     Earnings Per Share        In June 2008, the FASB issued new requirements within ASC 260-10, which specify that all outstanding unvested share-based payment awards that
contain rights to nonforfeitable dividends or dividend equivalents are considered participating securities and should be included in the computation of EPS pursuant to the two-class method as defined in ASC 260-10. The new requirements of ASC 260-10
are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. All prior period EPS data presented must be adjusted retrospectively. Prior to 2009, the Company awarded restricted stock and
restricted stock units with nonforfeitable dividend equivalent rights. Restricted stock and restricted stock units awarded in 2009 are not considered participating securities as dividend equivalents are subject to forfeiture prior to vesting of the
award. The Company adopted the new requirements of ASC 260-10 on January 1, 2009.      The impact of retrospective adoption of
ASC 470-20 and ASC 260-10 to diluted EPS for common shares in 2007 and 2008 was a decline of $0.16 and $0.13, respectively.        Fair Value Measurements        In February 2008, the FASB issued new guidance within ASC 820-10, which delayed
the effective date of the application of ASC 820-10 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 for all non-financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a non-recurring basis.
Non-recurring non-financial assets and liabilities include goodwill, indefinite-lived and finite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets each measured at fair value for purposes of impairment testing, asset retirement and guarantee obligations
initially measured at fair value, and those assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination or asset purchase. The adoption of the provisions of ASC 820-10 on January 1, 2009 for non-recurring non-financial
assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.        Fair
Value Measurements Disclosures and Impairments of Securities        In April 2009, the FASB issued the following three
provisions intended to provide additional application guidance and enhance disclosures regarding fair value measurements and impairments of securities:       

The new provisions issued within ASC 320-10,  Investments   Debt and Equity Securities  ( ASC 320-10 ), amend current
other-than-temporary impairment guidance in GAAP for debt securities to make the guidance more operational and to improve the presentation and disclosure of other-than-temporary impairments on debt and equity securities in the financial statements.
Under ASC 320-10, an other-than-temporary impairment for debt securities is triggered if (1) an entity has the intent to sell the security, (2) it is more likely than not that an entity will be required to sell the security before
recovery, or (3) an entity does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If an entity does not intend to sell a security and it is not more likely than not that the entity will be required to sell the security, but
the security has suffered a credit loss, the impairment charge will be separated into the credit loss component, which is recorded in earnings, and the remaining portion is recorded in other comprehensive income. ASC 320-10 does not amend existing
recognition and measurement guidance related to other-than-temporary impairments of equity securities.           
   F-27   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          

    Accounting Policies Adopted in the Year Ended December 31, 2009 (continued)

Fair Value Measurements Disclosures and Impairments of Securities: (continued)

The new provisions issued within ASC 820-10,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures  ( ASC 820-10 ), provide additional guidance on
determining when the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability has significantly decreased and includes guidance on identifying circumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly.          

The new provisions issued within ASC 825-10,  Financial Instruments  ( ASC 825-10 ), amend the existing disclosure guidance about fair
value of financial instruments to expand the required qualitative and quantitative disclosures about fair value of financial instruments to interim reporting periods for publicly traded entities. In addition, the applicable guidance within ASC
825-10 amends ASC 270-10,  Interim Reporting , to require those disclosures in summarized financial information at interim reporting periods.         The adoption of all three of the above new provisions as of April 1, 2009, did not materially impact the Company s consolidated financial statements.        Business Combinations        In December 2007, the FASB issued new guidance within ASC 805,  Business Combinations  ( ASC 805 ), and in April 2009, the FASB issued additional guidance within ASC 805 , Accounting for
Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise From Contingencies . ASC 805 retains the fundamental requirements that the acquisition method of accounting (the purchase method) be used for all business combinations
and for an acquirer to be identified for each business combination. The new provisions within ASC 805 further define the acquirer, establish the acquisition date and broaden the scope of transactions that qualify as business combinations.
     Additionally, the new requirements within ASC 805 change the fair value measurement provisions for assets acquired,
liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree, provide guidance for the measurement of fair value in a step acquisition, change the requirements for recognizing assets acquired and liabilities assumed subject to contingencies,
provide guidance on recognition and measurement of contingent consideration and require that acquisition-related costs of the acquirer generally be expensed as incurred. Reversal of valuation allowances related to acquired deferred tax assets and
changes to liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits related to tax positions assumed in business combinations that settled prior to the adoption of the new requirements within ASC 805 affected goodwill. If such valuation allowances reverse or
liabilities change subsequent to the adoption of the new requirements within ASC 805, such changes will affect the income tax provision in the period of reversal or change.      The new requirements within ASC 805 apply prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning
of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The Company adopted the new requirements within ASC 805 on January 1, 2009. The adoption of the new requirements within ASC 805 impacted the Company s
consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 as the Company completed its acquisition of BGI during 2009 and certain acquisition related costs in connection with the BGI Transaction have been expensed as incurred. See
Note 3, Mergers and Acquisitions, for further discussion.         
   F-28   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          

    Accounting Policies Adopted in the Year Ended December 31, 2009 (continued)
         
     Useful Life of Intangible Assets        In April 2008, the FASB issued additional guidance within ASC 350-30,  General Intangibles Other than Goodwill  ( ASC
350-30 ). The required provisions within ASC 350-30 amend the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under the prior guidance within
ASC 350  Intangibles   Goodwill and Other . ASC 350-30 requires that an entity shall consider its own experience in renewing similar arrangements. ASC 350-30 is intended to improve the consistency between the useful life of an intangible
asset determined under prior requirements within ASC 350 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under ASC 805 and other GAAP. The new requirements of ASC 350-30 are effective for financial statements issued
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption on January 1, 2009 of the new requirements within ASC 350-30 did not materially impact the Company s consolidated
financial statements.        Disclosures about Derivative Instruments        In March 2008, the FASB issued new guidance within ASC 815-10. ASC 815-10 expands the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and
hedging activities. ASC 815-10 specifically requires enhanced disclosures addressing: (1) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, (2) how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under ASC 815 and its
related interpretations and (3) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity s financial position, financial performance and cash flows. ASC 815-10 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after
November 15, 2008. The adoption on January 1, 2009 of the additional disclosure requirements of ASC 815-10 did not materially impact the Company s consolidated financial statements.        Meaning of Indexed to a Company s Own Stock        In June 2008, the FASB issued new guidance within ASC 815-40,  Derivatives and Hedging: Contracts in Entity s Own Equity  ( ASC 815-40 ). The new requirements of ASC 815-40 provide
guidance for determining whether an equity-linked financial instrument (or embedded feature) is indexed to an entity s own stock. To meet the definition of  indexed to its own stock,  an instrument s contingent exercise
provisions must not be based on an observable market other than the market for the issuer s stock, and its settlement amount must be based only on those variables that are inputs to the fair value of a  fixed-for-fixed  forward or
option on an entity s equity shares. The adoption on January 1, 2009 of the required provisions of ASC 815-40 did not change the classification or measurement of the Company s financial instruments.         
   F-29   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          

    Accounting Policies Adopted in the Year Ended December 31, 2009 (continued)
         
     Subsequent Events        In May 2009, the FASB issued ASC 855-10,  Subsequent Events  ( ASC 855-10 ), which provides guidance to establish general
standards of accounting for and disclosures of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. ASC 855-10 is effective for interim or fiscal periods ending after June 15,
2009. The Company adopted ASC 855-10 on June 30, 2009. The adoption of ASC 855-10 did not materially impact the Company s consolidated financial statements.      In February 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-09,  Subsequent Events  ( ASU 2010-09 ), effective immediately, which amends ASC 855-10 to clarify that an SEC filer is not required to disclose
the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated in the financial statements. The adoption of ASU 2010-09 did not materially impact the Company s consolidated financial statements. See Note 25, Subsequent Events, for further
discussion.        The FASB Accounting Standards Codification        In June 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2009-1,  Amendments Based on SFAS No. 168, The
FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles   a replacement of FASB Statement No. 162  ( ASU 2009-1 ). ASU 2009-1 established the FASB ASC as the single source of
authoritative GAAP to be applied by nongovernmental entities. Rules and interpretive releases of the SEC under authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. All other accounting literature not
included in the ASC will become nonauthoritative. ASU 2009-1 is effective for financial statements for interim or annual reporting periods ending after September 15, 2009. The Company adopted ASU 2009-1 on September 30, 2009. As ASU 2009-1
does not change GAAP, its adoption did not impact amounts recorded or disclosures required as part of the Company s consolidated financial statements.        Measuring Fair Value of Certain Alternative Investments        In
September 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-12,  Investments in Certain Entities That Calculate Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent)  ( ASU 2009-12 ). ASU 2009-12 amends ASC 820-10 to provide guidance on measuring the fair value
of certain alternative investments. The amendments in this ASU permit, as a practical expedient, a reporting entity to use the investment s net asset value per share ( NAV ) to measure the fair value of the investment provided that
the NAV is calculated as of the reporting entity s measurement date. ASU 2009-12 also requires enhanced disclosures by major investment category about the attributes of the investments within the scope, such as the nature of the restrictions,
the amount of the unfunded commitments and the description of the investment strategies of the investees. ASU 2009-12 is effective for the interim and annual reporting periods ending after December 15, 2009. In the period of adoption, an entity
must disclose any change in valuation technique and related inputs and quantify the total effect, if practicable. The adoption of the additional disclosure requirements of ASU 2009-12, on December 31, 2009, did not materially impact the
Company s consolidated financial statements. See Note 7, Fair Value Disclosures for more information.         
   F-30   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          
    Recent Accounting Developments         New Consolidation Guidance for Variable Interest Entities        In June 2009, the FASB issued new requirements within ASC 810-10, which amend the consolidation guidance for variable interest entities under
FIN 46(R). The amendments include: (1) the elimination of the exemption from consolidation for qualifying special purpose entities, (2) a new approach for determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE, which requires that the primary
beneficiary have both (i) the power to control the most significant activities of the VIE and (ii) either the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE, and (3) the
requirement to continually reassess the primary beneficiary of a VIE.      In February 2010 the FASB issued ASU 2010-10,
 Amendments to Statement 167 for Certain Investment Funds (  ASU 2010-10 ) .  The ASU will indefinitely defer the application of SFAS No. 167,  Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)  for a reporting
enterprise s interest in an entity if all of the following conditions are met:      (1) the entity either has all of the
attributes of an investment company, as specified in ASC 946-10,  Financial Services-Investment Companies  ( ASC 946-10  (2) it is industry practice to apply measurement principles for financial reporting that are consistent
with those in ASC 946-10; (3) the entity is not a securitization entity, an asset-backed financing entity, or an entity formerly considered a qualifying special-purpose entity, and (4) the reporting enterprise does not have an obligation
to fund losses significant to the entity.      In addition, the deferral applies to a reporting entity s interest in an entity
that is required to comply or operate in accordance with the requirement of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 for registered money market funds.      The amendments in this ASU clarify that for entities that do not qualify for the proposed deferral, related parties should be considered when evaluating each of the criteria for determining whether a
decision maker or service provider fee represents a variable interest.      An entity that qualifies for the deferral will continue
to be assessed for consolidation under the overall guidance on variable interest entities in ASC 810-10 (before its amendment by SFAS No. 167) or other applicable consolidation guidance, including guidance for the consolidation of partnerships
in ASC 810-20. The amendment does not defer the disclosure requirements in SFAS No. 167.      The new provisions of ASC 810-10
and ASU 2010-10 are both effective for the beginning of an entity s first annual reporting period that begins after November 15, 2009, for interim periods within that first annual reporting period and for interim and annual reporting
periods thereafter.      The Company does not expect the adoption of new provisions of ASC 810-10 and ASU 2009-17 to impact net
income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. or its stockholders  equity, however, it is currently evaluating the impact to its first quarter 2010 consolidated financial statements as a result of consolidating the assets and liabilities and net
income (loss) of certain VIEs, in addition to a corresponding non-controlling interest liability or asset and allocation of net income (loss) to non-controlling interests primarily related to collateralized debt obligations that it manages, which do
not qualify for the deferral.         
   F-31   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          
    Recent Accounting Developments         Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements        In January 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2010-06,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures  ( ASU 2010-06 ). ASU 2010-06 amends
ASC 820-10 to require new disclosures with regards to transfers into and out of Levels 1 and 2 and separate disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and other settlements within the Level 3 fair value rollforward. ASU 2010-06 also clarifies
existing fair value disclosures about the appropriate level of disaggregation and about inputs and valuation techniques for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements that fall in either Level 2 or Level 3. The new disclosures and
clarifications of existing disclosures are effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales and settlements in the rollforward of activity in Level 3 fair
value measurements, which are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of the additional disclosure requirements of ASU 2010-06 are not expected to materially
impact BlackRock s consolidated financial statements.       3. Mergers and Acquisitions         Barclays Global Investors        On December 1, 2009, BlackRock acquired from Barclays all of the outstanding equity interests of subsidiaries of Barclays conducting the investment management business of BGI in exchange for an
aggregate of 37,566,771 shares of BlackRock common stock and participating preferred stock, subject to certain adjustments, and $6.65 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments. The fair value of the 37,566,771 shares at closing, on
December 1, 2009, was $8.53 billion, at a price of $227.08 per share, the closing price of BlackRock s common stock on November 30, 2009.      The acquisition of BGI brings together market leaders in active and index strategies to create the preeminent asset management firm which manages investments on behalf of institutional and retail
investors worldwide. The combined firm s products include passively and actively managed equities and fixed income, cash management, and alternatives and will offer clients diversified access to global markets through separate accounts, common
trust funds, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, hedge funds, and closed-end funds.      The shares of capital stock issued to
Barclays pursuant to the BGI Transaction represented approximately 4.8% of the outstanding shares of common stock and approximately an aggregate 19.8% economic interest in BlackRock immediately following the closing of the transaction. Barclays
generally is restricted from purchasing additional shares of BlackRock common or preferred stock if it would result in Barclays holding more than 4.9% of the total voting power of BlackRock or more than 19.9% of the total capital stock of BlackRock
on a fully diluted basis. In addition, Barclays is restricted from transferring 100% of its BlackRock capital stock for one year after closing and 50% of its BlackRock capital stock for the second year, without the prior written consent of
BlackRock.      The cash portion of the purchase price was funded through a combination of existing cash, issuance of short-term
debt backed by a short-term credit facility which was arranged by Barclays, a related party, and subsequently terminated upon the issuance of long-term notes in December 2009, and proceeds from the private issuance of 19,914,652 capital shares, at a
price of $140.60, to a group of institutional investors, including PNC.         
   F-32   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    3. Mergers and Acquisitions (continued)          

     Barclays Global Investors (continued)           
   The BGI Transaction was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in
accordance with ASC 805. Accordingly, the purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities and non-controlling interests assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the date of the transaction. Substantially all of the
excess of the final purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities and non-controlling interests assumed was recorded as non-deductible goodwill.      A summary of the recorded fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities and non-controlling interests assumed on December 1, 2009 in this acquisition is as follows:       
    Finite-life management contracts have a weighted-average estimated useful life of approximately 10 years and
are amortized on the straight-line method.      The fair value of BGI finite-lived management contracts consists primarily of
separate accounts and custom segregated funds and the fair value of BGI indefinite-lived management contracts consists primarily of exchange traded funds, common and collective trusts and open-end funds.      The fair value of acquired trade names/trademarks was determined using a royalty rate based primarily on normalized marketing and promotion
expenditures to develop and support the brands globally.         
   F-33   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    3. Mergers and Acquisitions (continued)          
     Barclays Global Investors (continued)        The purchase accounting adjustments are preliminary and subject to revision. At this time, except for the items noted below, the Company does
not expect material changes to the value of the assets acquired or liabilities assumed in conjunction with the transaction. Specifically, the following assets and liabilities are subject to change:       

Intangible management contracts were valued using preliminary December 1, 2009 AUM and assumptions. The value of such contracts may change,
primarily as the result of updates to AUM and those assumptions;          

As management receives additional information, deferred income tax assets and liabilities and other assets, due from and to related parties, and other
liabilities may be adjusted as the result of changes in purchase accounting and applicable tax rates.         The
following unaudited pro forma combined financial information does not purport to be indicative of actual results of BlackRock s operations had the BGI Transaction actually been consummated at the beginning of each period presented. Certain
one-time charges that are directly attributable to the BGI Transaction have been eliminated. The pro forma combined provision for income taxes may not represent the amount that would have resulted had BlackRock and BGI filed consolidated income tax
returns during the years presented.       

(1)         
        Subsequent to the
closing of the BGI Transaction on December 1, 2009, BGI contributed $312 million of revenue, $141 million of operating income and $94 million of net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc.      

(2)     
    Includes the full year impact of the long-term notes issued in December 2009.            
   F-34   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    3. Mergers and Acquisitions (continued)          
     Barclays Global Investors (continued)         BlackRock and BGI costs included as pro forma adjustments (unaudited)       For purposes of the pro forma financial information above, the following costs have been removed as they are deemed to be one-time costs
directly attributable to the BGI Transaction.       

BlackRock results included $183 million of BlackRock pre-merger transaction and integration costs in conjunction with the BGI Transaction such as
advisory fees, legal fees, consulting expenses recorded within general and administration expenses and compensation expense which have been expensed as incurred by BlackRock during the year ended December 31, 2009.      

BGI results for the eleven months ended November 30, 2009 included $299 million of costs related to acceleration of certain compensation costs
that were triggered due to the transaction.          BGI costs and benefits not included as pro forma adjustments
(unaudited)       For purposes of the pro forma financial information above, the following items which are in BGI s results
and included in the pro forma results have not been removed as they are not directly attributable to the BGI Transaction:       

A pre-tax expense of $2.285 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008 and a pre-tax benefit of $1.249 billion, for the eleven-month period
ended November 30, 2009 related to capital support of certain BGI cash management products. The liability related to such capital support has not been assumed in the transaction as it will remain with Barclays.          

BGI s tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the eleven-month period ended November 30, 2009 included a non-recurring tax
benefit of approximately $695 million and a tax expense of $381 million, respectively, related to the capital support.          

A pre-tax expense of $29 million for the eleven-month period ended November 30, 2009 related to a BGI restructuring independent from the sale to
BlackRock.          

A pre-tax non-operating gain/(loss) of ($33) million and $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the eleven-month period ended
November 30, 2009, respectively, related to valuation changes for certain investments that were not acquired by BlackRock.         If such costs and benefits were excluded the pro forma diluted EPS for 2009 would have decreased by $4.37 and for 2008 would have increased by $8.33.        Impact Investing        In August 2008, the Company acquired Impact Investing, an Australia based software development company specializing in equity portfolio management and analytical software tools. The maximum remaining and
total consideration to be paid is not expected to be material to the Company s consolidated financial statements.         
   F-35   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    3. Mergers and Acquisitions (continued)          
     Quellos Group        On October 1, 2007, the Company closed the Quellos Transaction and paid Quellos $562.5 million in cash and issued 1,191,785 shares of
BlackRock common stock, valued at $188 million. The common stock was placed in escrow for up to three years and is available to satisfy certain indemnification obligations of Quellos under the asset purchase agreement. The value of the common stock
consideration was determined using the average closing price of BlackRock s common stock ten days before the Quellos Transaction announcement date.      In addition, Quellos may receive two contingent payments, upon achieving certain investment advisory base and performance fee measures through December 31, 2010, totaling up to $969 million in a
combination of cash and stock. During 2009, the Company determined the first contingent payment to be $219 million, of which $11 million was previously paid in cash during 2008. Of the remaining $208 million, $156 million was paid in cash and $52
million was paid in common stock, or approximately 330,000 shares based on a price of $157.33 per share. The second contingent payment, of up to $595 million, is based on investment advisory fees through 2010 and is payable in cash in 2011. Quellos
may also be entitled to a  catch-up  payment in 2011 if certain investment advisory base fee measures are met though 2010 to the extent that the value of the first contingent payment is less than $374 million.      The Quellos Transaction was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting in accordance with ASC 805 prior to the changes within ASC
805 which were adopted on January 1, 2009. Accordingly, the purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the date of the transaction. The excess, if any, of the final
purchase price, which may include contingent consideration payments, over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be recorded as goodwill.      Finite-life intangible management contracts have a weighted average estimated useful life of approximately 7.4 years and are amortized on the straight-line method.      As contingencies are resolved, BlackRock common shares held in escrow may be released from escrow. In April 2008 and November 2009, 280,519
and 42,326 common shares, respectively, were released from escrow to Quellos in accordance with the Quellos asset purchase agreement, which resulted in an adjustment to the recognized purchase price. As additional shares held in escrow are released,
and if contingent consideration payments are made to Quellos, additional purchase price consideration or employee compensation will be recorded.      Adjustments to goodwill related to tax benefits realized from tax-deductible goodwill in excess of the initial book goodwill established are discussed in Note 11, Goodwill.         
   F-36   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    3. Mergers and Acquisitions (continued)          
     Fund of Hedge Funds        On April 30, 2003, the Company purchased an 80% interest in an investment manager of a hedge fund of funds for approximately $4 million
in cash. On October 1, 2007, the Company paid $27 million in cash to purchase the remaining 20% of the investment manager. The purchase price of the remaining interest was performance-based and was not subject to a maximum, minimum or the
continued employment of former employees of the investment manager with the Company. As a result of the transaction in October 2007, $21 million and $8 million of additional goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets, respectively, was recorded.
      4. Investments       A summary of the carrying value of total investments is as follows:       
    At December 31, 2009, the Company had $463
million of total investments held by consolidated sponsored investment funds of which $103 million and $360 million were classified as trading investments and other investments, respectively.      At December 31, 2008, the Company had $728 million of total investments held by consolidated sponsored investment funds of which $53
million and $675 million were classified as trading investments and other investments, respectively.         
   F-37   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    4. Investments (continued)          
     Available-for-sale Investments        A summary of the cost and carrying value of investments classified as available-for-sale, is as follows:       
    Available-for-sale investments includes seed
investments in BlackRock sponsored investment funds and debt securities received upon closure of an enhanced cash fund, in lieu of the Company s remaining investment in the fund and securities purchased from another enhanced cash fund.
     During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $5
million, including $2 million related to credit loss impairments on debt securities, $8 million and $16 million, respectively, which were recorded in non-operating income (expense) on the consolidated statements of income. The $2 million credit loss
impairment in 2009 was determined by comparing the estimated discounted cash flows versus the amortized cost for each individual security.      The Company has reviewed the gross unrealized losses of $1 million as of December 31, 2009 related to available-for-sale equity securities, of which less than $1 million had been in a loss position
for greater than twelve months, and determined that these unrealized losses were not other-than-temporary primarily because the Company has the ability and intent to hold the securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery of such
unrealized losses. As a result, the Company did not record additional impairments on such equity securities.         
   F-38   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    4. Investments (continued)          
     Available-for-sale Investments (continued)        A summary of sale activity in the Company s available-for-sale securities during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007
is shown below.       
      Held-to-Maturity Investments     
  A summary of the carrying value of held-to-maturity investments is as follows:       
    Held-to-maturity investments include debt instruments
held for regulatory purposes and the carrying value of these investments approximates fair value.         
   F-39   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    4. Investments (continued)          
     Trading and Other Investments        A summary of the cost and carrying value of trading and other investments is as follows:       
    Trading investments include certain deferred
compensation plan fund investments, equity and debt securities within certain consolidated sponsored investment funds and equity and debt securities held in separate accounts for the purpose of establishing an investment history in various
investment strategies before being marketed to investors.        Cost Method Investments        Cost method investments include non-marketable securities, including Federal Reserve Bank Stock, that are primarily held for regulatory
purposes.      As of December 31, 2009, there were no indicators of impairments on these investments.         
   F-40   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    4. Investments (continued)          
     Maturity dates        The carrying value of debt securities, classified as available-for-sale, held-to-maturity, trading and other investments, by maturity at
December 31, 2009 and 2008 is as follows:       
    At December 31, 2009, the debt securities in the
table above primarily consisted of mortgage, asset-backed, municipal, corporate, U.S. and foreign government debt securities a portion of which are held by consolidated sponsored investment funds which are consolidated in the Company s
consolidated statements of financial condition. In addition, at December 31, 2008, the debt securities in the table above included floating rate notes and asset backed securities held by consolidated sponsored cash management funds.   
     
   F-41   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    5. Equity Method Investments             BlackRock invests in hedge funds, funds of hedge funds, real estate funds and private equity funds to establish
a performance track record or for co-investment purposes. BlackRock accounts for certain of these investments under the equity method of accounting in addition to other accounting methods. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company held the
following equity method investments in its sponsored investment products:       

1     
    The majority of the net assets of the equity method investees are comprised of investments held for capital appreciation offset by liabilities, which
may including borrowings.            
   F-42   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    5. Equity Method Investments (continued)          
   In addition, due to BlackRock s ownership levels BlackRock has equity method
investments in various operating and advisory entities held for strategic purposes related to BlackRock s core business, which are recorded in other assets. The table below includes BlackRock s approximate 40% investment in DSP BlackRock
Investment Managers Pvt. Ltd and its 42% investment in Private National Mortgage Acceptance Company, LLC.       

(      1      )     
    In addition, at December 31, 2009 and 2008, BlackRock had approximately $2 million and $2 million, respectively, of other strategic equity method
investments recorded within other assets.            
   F-43   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    6. Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds             The Company consolidates certain sponsored investment funds
primarily because it is deemed to control such investments in accordance with GAAP. The investments that are owned by these consolidated sponsored investment funds are classified as other or trading investments. At December 31, 2009 and 2008,
the following balances related to these funds were consolidated in the consolidated statements of financial condition:       
    During 2009, BlackRock took necessary steps to grant additional rights to the unaffiliated investors in one
consolidated sponsored investment fund, which also commenced in 2009. The granting of the additional substantive rights resulted in deconsolidation of this fund and the elimination of $85 million, $76 million, and $9 million of investments,
borrowings, and nonredeemable non-controlling interests, respectively. In December 2008, BlackRock took necessary steps to grant additional rights to the unaffiliated investors in three funds with net assets at December 31, 2008 of
approximately $210 million. BlackRock deconsolidated these sponsored investment funds upon the grant of these additional rights.      BlackRock s total exposure to consolidated sponsored investment funds of $258 million and $310 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, represents the value of the Company s economic ownership interest in these
sponsored investment funds. Valuation changes associated with these consolidated investment funds are reflected in non-operating income (expense) and net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests. Less than $1 million and $6 million of
borrowings by consolidated sponsored investment funds at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were included in other liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial condition.      The Company may not be readily able to access cash and cash equivalents held by consolidated sponsored investment funds to use in its
operating activities. In addition, the Company may not be readily able to sell investments held by consolidated sponsored investment funds in order to obtain cash for use in its operations.         
   F-44   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    7. Fair Value Disclosures               Fair Value Hierarchy        Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2009 were as follows:       

(1)     
    Comprised of equity method investments, which include investment companies, and other assets which in accordance with GAAP are not accounted for under
a fair value measure. In accordance with GAAP, certain equity method investees do not account for both their financial assets and financial liabilities under fair value measures; therefore, the Company s investment in such equity method
investees may not represent fair value.      

(2)     
    Includes disposal group assets and company-owned and split-dollar life insurance policies.            
   F-45   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    7. Fair Value Disclosures (continued)          
     Fair Value Hierarchy (continued)        Assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2008 were as follows:       

(1)     
    Comprised of equity method investments, which include investment companies, and other assets which in accordance with GAAP are not accounted for under
a fair value measure. In accordance with GAAP, certain equity method investees do not account for both their financial assets and financial liabilities under fair value measures; therefore, the Company s investment in such equity method
investees may not represent fair value.      

(2)     
    Includes disposal group assets and company-owned and split-dollar life insurance policies.            
   F-46   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    7. Fair Value Disclosures (continued)          
    Separate Account Assets       BlackRock Pensions Limited and BlackRock Asset Management Pensions Limited, both wholly-owned subsidiaries of the
Company, are registered life insurance companies that maintain separate account assets, representing segregated funds held for purposes of funding individual and group pension contracts, and equal and offsetting separate account non-financial
liabilities.       Money Market Funds within Cash and Cash Equivalents       At December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately $1.4 billion and $0.1 billion, respectively, of money market funds were recorded within
cash and cash equivalents on the consolidated statements of financial condition. Money market funds are valued through the use of quoted market prices (a Level 1 input), or $1, which is generally the net asset value of the fund.       Level 3 Assets       Level 3 assets recorded within investments, which include equity method investments and consolidated investments of real estate funds, private equity funds and funds of private equity funds, are valued based upon valuations received from
internal as well as third party fund managers. Fair valuations at the underlying funds are based on a combination of methods, which may include third-party independent appraisals and discounted cash flow techniques. Direct investments in private
equity companies held by funds of private equity funds are valued based on an assessment of each underlying investment, incorporating evaluation of additional significant third party financing, changes in valuations of comparable peer companies, the
business environment of the companies and market indices, among other factors. Level 3 assets recorded within separate account assets may include single broker non-binding quotes for fixed income securities.       Changes in Level 3 Investments, Other Assets and Separate Account Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for the Year Ended
December 31, 2009        
         N/A   Not applicable    

(      1      )     
    Purchases, sales, other settlements and issuances, net, include $1,675 million related to Level 3 separate account assets acquired in the BGI
Transaction in December 2009.      

(      2      )     
    The net investment income and net gains and losses attributable to separate account assets accrue directly to the contract owner and are not reported
as non-operating income (expense) on the consolidated statements of income.            
   F-47   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    7. Fair Value Disclosures (continued)          
    Changes in Level 3 Investments and Other Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring
Basis for the Year Ended December 31, 2008        
    Realized and unrealized
gains and losses recorded for Level 3 investments are reported in non-operating income (expense) on the consolidated statements of income. A portion of net income (loss) for consolidated investments is allocated to non-controlling interests to
reflect net income (loss) not attributable to the Company.      Transfers in and/or out of Level 3 are reflected as of the
beginning of the period when significant inputs, including market inputs or performance attributes, used for the fair value measurement become observable or when the book value of certain equity method investments no longer represents fair value as
determined under fair value methodologies.         
   F-48   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    7. Fair Value Disclosures (continued)          
     Investments in Certain Entities that Calculate Net Asset Value Per Share   
     As a practical expedient BlackRock relies on net asset values as the fair value for certain investments. The following table
lists information regarding all investments that use a fair value measurement to account for both their financial assets and financial liabilities in their calculation of a net asset value per share (or its equivalent):       
                 n/a   not
applicable    

(1)  
  Comprised of equity method investments, which include investment companies which in accordance with GAAP account for both their financial assets and financial
liabilities under fair value measures; therefore, the Company s investment in such equity method investees approximates fair value.     

(a)  
  This category includes the underlying third party private equity funds within consolidated BlackRock sponsored private equity funds of funds. The fair values of the
investments in the third party funds have been estimated using the net asset value of the Company s ownership interest in partners  capital in each fund in the portfolio as well as other performance inputs. These investments are not
subject to redemption, however for certain funds the Company may sell or transfer its interest, which may need approval by the general partner of the underlying funds. Due to the nature of the investments in this category the Company reduces its
investment via distributions that are received through the realization of the underlying assets of the funds. It is estimated that the underlying assets of these funds would be liquidated over a weighted average period of approximately 9 years.
       Total remaining unfunded commitments to other third party funds is $85 million. BlackRock is contractually
obligated to fund only $54 million, its remaining unfunded commitment balance included in the above table to the consolidated fund while the remaining balance would be funded by capital contributions from non-controlling interest holders.
        
   F-49   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    7. Fair Value Disclosures (continued)          

     Investments in Certain Entities that Calculate Net Asset Value Per Share
(continued)           

(b)  
  This category includes several consolidated funds of funds that invest in multiple strategies to diversify risks. The fair values of the investments in this category
have been estimated using the net asset value of the fund s ownership interest in partners  capital of each fund in the portfolio. Investments in this category can generally be redeemed, as long as there are no restrictions in place by the
underlying funds.     

(c)  
  This category includes several private equity funds that initially invest in non-marketable securities of private companies which ultimately may become public in the
future. The fair values of these investments have been estimated using the net asset value of the Company s ownership interest in partners  capital as well as other performance inputs. The Company s investment in each fund is not
subject to redemption and is normally returned through distributions as a result of the liquidation of the underlying assets of the private equity funds. It is estimated that the investment in these funds would be liquidated over a weighted average
period of approximately 8 years.     

(d)  
  This category includes several real estate funds that invest primarily to acquire, expand, renovate, finance, hold for investment, and ultimately sell income-producing
apartment properties or to capitalize on the distress in the residential real estate market. The fair values of the investments in this category have been estimated using the net asset value of the Company s ownership interest in partners 
capital. The Company s investment in each fund is not subject to redemption and is normally returned through distributions as a result of the liquidation of the underlying assets of the real estate funds. It is estimated that the investments in
these funds would be liquidated over a weighted average period of approximately 14 years.     

(e)  
  This category includes hedge funds and funds of hedge funds that invest primarily in equities, fixed income securities, distressed credit and mortgage instruments and
other third party hedge funds. The fair values of the investments in this category have been estimated using the net asset value of the Company s ownership interest in partners  capital. It is estimated that the investments in the funds
that are not subject to redemptions would be liquidated over a weighted average period of less than 8 years.     

(f)  
  This category includes investments in certain hedge funds that invest in energy and health science related equity securities. The fair values of the investments in this
category have been estimated using the net asset value of the Company s ownership interest in partners  capital as well as performance inputs.           
   F-50   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    8. Variable Interest Entities       In the normal course of business, the Company is the manager of various types of sponsored investment vehicles, including collateralized debt
obligations and sponsored investment funds, which may be considered VIEs. The Company receives management fees or other incentive related fees for its services and may from time to time own equity or debt securities or enter into derivatives with
the vehicles, each of which are considered variable interests. The Company enters into these variable interests principally to address client needs through the launch of such investment vehicles. The VIEs are primarily financed via capital
contributed by equity and debt holders. The Company s involvement in financing the operations of the VIEs is limited to its equity interests, unfunded capital commitments for certain sponsored investment funds and two capital support agreements
for two enhanced cash funds at December 31, 2008 which were terminated in 2009, due to closure of the funds.      The primary
beneficiary of a VIE is the enterprise that has a variable interest (or combination of variable interests, including those of related parties) that will absorb a majority of the entity s expected losses, receive a majority of the entity s
expected residual returns or both. In order to determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of a VIE, management must make significant estimates and assumptions of probable future cash flows and assign probabilities to different cash
flow scenarios. Assumptions made in such analyses include, but are not limited to, market prices of securities, market interest rates, potential credit defaults on individual securities or default rates on a portfolio of securities, realization of
gains, liquidity or marketability of certain securities, discount rates and the probability of certain other outcomes.        VIEs in which BlackRock is the Primary Beneficiary         As of December 31, 2009       At December 31, 2009, BlackRock was the primary beneficiary of one VIE, a private sponsored investment fund, in which it had a
non-substantive investment, due to its de-facto third party relationships with other partners in the fund. Due to consolidation of this VIE, at December 31, 2009, the Company recorded $54 million of net assets, primarily investments and cash
and cash equivalents. These net assets were offset on the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition by $54 million of nonredeemable non-controlling interests which reflect the equity ownership of third parties, on the
Company s consolidated statements of financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recorded a non-operating expense of $4 million offset by a $4 million net loss attributable to nonredeemable non-controlling
interests on its consolidated statements of income. The Company has no risk of loss with its involvement with this VIE.         
   F-51   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    8. Variable Interest Entities (continued)          
    As of December 31, 2008         VIEs in which BlackRock is the Primary Beneficiary (continued)        During 2008, the Company determined it became the primary beneficiary of two enhanced cash management funds as a result of concluding that
under various cash flow scenarios it absorbed the majority of the variability to cover expected losses in the funds due to its equity ownership percentage of the funds along with its obligation under the Company s capital support agreements
with the funds which were established to cover potential realized losses within the funds. During 2008, the Company contributed $1 million to the cash management funds to cover realized losses. As of December 31, 2008, under the terms of the
capital support agreements, BlackRock was obligated to cover realized losses of up to $45 million.      At December 31, 2008,
the Company was the primary beneficiary of three VIEs, which resulted in consolidation of three sponsored investment funds (including two cash management funds and one private equity fund of funds). Creditors of the VIEs do not have recourse to the
credit of the Company.       
    As a result of consolidating the three private
investment funds, at December 31, 2008, the Company recorded $383 million of net assets, primarily investments and cash and cash equivalents which in consolidation is offset by $319 million of non-controlling interests which reflect the equity
ownership of third parties, on its consolidated statements of financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recorded a non-operating expense of $12 million offset by a $13 million gain in non-controlling interests on
its consolidated statements of income.      The maximum risk of loss related to the capital support agreements in the table of
above reflect the Company s total obligation under the capital support agreements with the two enhanced cash funds. The fair value of the capital support agreements recorded at December 31, 2008 was $18 million.         
   F-52   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    8. Variable Interest Entities (continued)          
     VIEs in which BlackRock holds significant variable interests or is the sponsor
that holds a variable interest but is not the Primary Beneficiary of VIE        At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the
Company s carrying value of assets and liabilities and its maximum risk of loss related to VIEs in which it holds a significant variable interest or is the sponsor that holds a variable interest, but for which it was not the primary
beneficiary, were as follows:       As of December 31, 2009        

(1)     
    Includes common trusts.         The size of the net assets of the VIEs that the Company does not consolidate related to CDO s, common trusts and other sponsored investment funds were as follows:       

CDOs - approximately ($8) billion, comprised of approximately $10 billion of assets and $18 billion of liabilities, primarily comprised of debt
obligations to CDO debt holders.          

Other sponsored investments funds   approximately $1.5 trillion to $1.6 trillion          

This amount includes approximately $1.1 trillion of common trusts. Each common trust has been aggregated separately and may include common trusts that
invest in other common trusts.          

The net assets of the VIEs are primarily comprised of cash and cash equivalents and investments offset by liabilities primarily comprised of various
accruals for the sponsored investment vehicles.         At December 31, 2009, BlackRock s maximum risk of
loss associated with these VIEs primarily relates to: (i) BlackRock s equity investments, (ii) management fee receivables and (iii) credit protection sold by BlackRock to a third party in a synthetic CDO transaction. See Note 9,
Derivatives and Hedging, for further information.         
   F-53   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    8. Variable Interest Entities (continued)          

     VIEs in which BlackRock holds significant variable interests or is the sponsor
that holds a variable interest but is not the Primary Beneficiary of VIE (continued)           
    As of December 31, 2008        

(Dollar amounts in millions)    

Variable Interests on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition   

Maximum Risk of Loss    

Investments   
      
   Receivables   
      
   Other Net Assets (Liabilities)   

CDOs   
      
  $  
  4  
      
  $  
  5  
      
  $  
  (1  
  )   
     
  $  
  25   
 
    Other sponsored investment funds   

9  

9  

(6  
  )   

18   

Total   
      
  $  
  13  
      
  $  
  14  
      
  $  
  (7  
  )   
     
  $  
  43   

The size of the net assets of the VIEs that the
Company did not consolidate related to CDOs and other sponsored investments funds was approximately ($7.8) billion and $6.1 billion, respectively.      The net assets of the VIEs are primarily comprised of cash and cash equivalents and investments offset by liabilities primarily comprised of debt obligations (CDO debt holders) and various accruals for
the sponsored investment vehicles.      At December 31, 2008, BlackRock s maximum risk of loss associated with these VIEs
primarily relates to: (i) BlackRock s equity investments, (ii) management fee receivables and (iii) credit protection sold by BlackRock to a third party in a synthetic CDO transaction. See Note 9, Derivatives and Hedging, for
further information.         
   F-54   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    9. Derivatives and Hedging       For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company did not hold any derivatives designated in a formal hedge relationship under
ASC 815-10.      By using derivative financial instruments, the Company exposes itself to market and counterparty risk. Market risk
from forward foreign currency exchange contracts is the effect on the value of a financial instrument that results from a change in currency exchange rates. The Company manages exposure to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange
contracts by establishing and monitoring parameters that limit the types and degrees of market risk that may be undertaken. At December 31, 2009, the Company had two outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with two counterparties with an
aggregate notional value of $100 million.      During 2007, the Company commenced a program to enter into a series of total return
swaps to economically hedge against market price exposures with respect to certain seed investments in sponsored investment products. At December 31, 2009, the Company had seven outstanding total return swaps with two counterparties with an
aggregate notional value of approximately $36 million.      In December 2007, BlackRock entered into capital support agreements, up
to $100 million, with two enhanced cash funds. These capital support agreements were backed by letters of credit issued under BlackRock s revolving credit facility. In December 2008, the capital support agreements were modified to be up to $45
million and were no longer backed by the letters of credit. In 2009, the capital support agreements were terminated, due to the closure of the related funds. See Note 13, Borrowings, for further discussion. During the six months ended June 30,
2009, the Company provided approximately $4 million of capital contributions to the funds under the capital support agreements. BlackRock determined that the capital support agreements qualified as derivatives under ASC 815-10. At December 31,
2008, the fair value of the derivative liabilities related to the capital support agreements for the two funds totaled approximately $18 million, respectively. The fair value of these liabilities increased or decreased as BlackRock s
obligations under the guarantee fluctuated based on the fair value of the derivative. Upon closure of the funds, the liability decreased $11 million and the change in the liability was included in general and administration expenses.      The Company acts as the portfolio manager in a series of credit default swap transactions, referred to collectively as the Pillars
synthetic CDO transaction ( Pillars ). The Company has entered into a credit default swap with Citibank, N.A. ( Citibank ), providing Citibank credit protection of approximately $17 million, representing the Company s
maximum risk of loss with respect to the provision of credit protection. The Company s management has performed an assessment of its variable interest in Pillars (a collateral management agreement and the credit default swap) under ASC
810-10 and has concluded the Company is not Pillars  primary beneficiary. Pursuant to ASC 815-10, the Company carries the Pillars credit default swap at fair value based on the expected future cash flows under the arrangement.   
  On behalf of clients that maintain separate accounts representing segregated funds held for purpose of funding individual and group
pension contracts, the Company invests in various derivative instruments, including forward foreign currency contracts, interest rate and inflation rate swaps.      The Company may, at times, consolidate certain sponsored investment funds which utilize derivative instruments as a part of the fund s investment strategy. The change in fair value of such
derivatives which is recorded in non-operating income (expense) is not material to the Company s consolidated financial statements.         
   F-55   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    9. Derivatives and Hedging (continued)          
   The following table presents fair value as of December 31, 2009 of derivative
instruments not designated as hedging instruments:       

Assets   
      
   Liabilities    
 
    (Dollar amounts in millions)    
      
   Balance Sheet Location   
      
   Fair Value   
      
   Balance Sheet Location   
      
   Fair Value    
 
    Foreign exchange contracts   
      
  Other assets  
      
  $  
  0.2  
      
  Other liabilities  
      
  $  

Total return swaps   
      
  Other assets  

Other liabilities  

0.4   
 
    Credit default swap (Pillars)   
      
  Other assets  

Other liabilities  

2.5   
 
    Separate account derivatives    (1)      
      
  Separate account assets  

1,501.0  
      
  Separate account liabilities  

1,501.0   

Total   

$  
  1,501.2  

$  
  1,503.9   

(1)     
    Derivatives associated with separate account assets include interest rate, inflation rate swaps, futures and foreign currency contracts.
        The following table presents gains (losses) recognized in income for the year ended December 31, 2009
on derivative instruments:       

(Dollar amounts in millions)    
      
   Income Statement Location   
     
   Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income on Derivative   

Foreign exchange contracts   
      
  General and administration expense  
     
  $  

Total return swaps   
      
  Non-operating income (expense)  

(10  
  )    
 
    Credit default swap (Pillars)   
      
  Non-operating income (expense)  

(2  
  )    
 
    Capital support agreements   
      
  General and administration expense  

7  

Total   

$  
  (5  
  )    

Net realized and unrealized gains and losses attributable to derivatives held by separate account assets and
liabilities accrue directly to the contract owner and are not reported as non-operating income in the consolidated statements of income.         
   F-56   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    10. Property and Equipment       Property and equipment consists of the following:       
        N/A   Not applicable      Qualifying software costs of approximately $31 million, $28 million and $25 million have been capitalized within equipment and computer software for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and are being
amortized over an estimated useful life of three years.      Depreciation expense was $85 million, $84 million and $68 million for
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.         
   F-57   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    11. Goodwill       Goodwill activity during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows:       
    During the year ended December 31, 2009, goodwill increased by $7,037 million. The increase relates
primarily to $6,842 million of goodwill substantially all of which is non-deductible, related to the BGI Transaction, a $156 million cash payment, $43 million common stock issuance related to the first contingent payment and a $6 million increase
related to the release of shares held in escrow in connection with the Quellos Transaction, offset by a $20 million decline related to tax benefits realized from tax-deductible goodwill in excess of book goodwill.      At December 31, 2009, the balance of the Quellos tax-deductible goodwill in excess of book goodwill was approximately $379 million.
Goodwill related to the Quellos Transaction will continue to be reduced in future periods by the amount of tax benefits realized from tax-deductible goodwill in excess of book goodwill.         
   F-58   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    12. Intangible Assets       Intangible assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008 consisted of the following:       
     
     N/A   Not applicable       Amortization expense for finite-lived
intangible assets was $147 million, $146 million and $130 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.         
   F-59   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        12. Intangible Assets (continued)          
     Finite-Lived Acquired Management Contracts        On September 29, 2006, in conjunction with the MLIM Transaction, the Company acquired finite-lived management contracts valued at $1,135
million, primarily associated with $771 million of contracts with institutional separate accounts, $348 million of contracts with retail separate accounts, $11 million of private equity accounts and $5 million in trade name intangibles. The initial
weighted-average estimated useful life of these finite-life management contracts was approximately 10.1 years.      On
September 29, 2006, in conjunction with the NBAM transaction, the Company acquired $13 million of finite-lived management contracts, primarily associated of institutional fixed income accounts. The initial weighted-average useful life of these
finite-life management contracts was approximately nine years.      On October 1, 2007, in conjunction with the Quellos
Transaction, the Company acquired $161 million of finite-lived management contracts, primarily associated with private equity, fund of funds and other contracts. The initial weighted-average useful life of these finite-life management contracts was
approximately 7.5 years.      In August 2008, in conjunction with the Impact Investing transaction, the Company acquired $7 million
of finite-lived contracts associated primarily of $1 million of institutional equity accounts and $6 million for intellectual property. The initial weighted-average useful life of these finite-life management contracts was approximately 9.5 years.
     In April 2009, the Company acquired $2 million of finite-lived management contracts with a five-year estimated useful life
associated with the acquisition of the R3 Capital Partners funds.      In December 2009, in conjunction with the BGI Transaction,
the Company acquired $163 million of finite-lived management contracts with a weighted-average estimated useful life of approximately 10 years.      Estimated amortization expense for finite-lived intangible assets for each of the five succeeding years is as follows:       
       
   F-60   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    12. Intangible Assets (continued)          
     Indefinite-Lived Acquired Management Contracts        On September 29, 2006, in conjunction with the MLIM Transaction, the Company acquired indefinite-lived management contracts valued at
$4,477 million consisting of $4,271 million for all retail mutual funds and $206 million for alternative investment products.      On October 1, 2007, in conjunction with the Quellos Transaction, the Company acquired $631 million in indefinite-lived management contracts associated with alternative investment products.      On October 1, 2007, the Company purchased the remaining 20% of an investment manager of a fund of hedge funds. In conjunction with this
transaction, the Company recorded $8 million in additional indefinite-lived management contracts associated with alternative investment products.      On December 1, 2009, in conjunction with the BGI Transaction, the Company acquired $9,785 million in indefinite-lived management contracts valued consisting primarily for exchange traded funds and
common and collective trusts.        Indefinite-Lived Acquired Trade Names / Trademarks        On December 1, 2009, in conjunction with the BGI Transaction, the Company acquired trade names/trademarks primarily
related to iShares      valued at $1,402.5 million. The fair value was determined using a royalty rate based
primarily on normalized marketing and promotion expenditures to develop and support the brands globally.       13. Borrowings         Short-Term Borrowings         2007 Facility       In August 2007, the Company entered into a five-year $2.5
billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the  2007 facility ), which permits the Company to request an additional $500 million of borrowing capacity, subject to lender credit approval, up to a maximum of $3.0 billion. The 2007 facility
requires the Company not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio (ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, where net debt equals total debt less domestic unrestricted cash) of 3 to 1, which was satisfied with a
ratio of less than 1 to 1 at December 31, 2009.      The 2007 facility provides back-up liquidity, funds ongoing working
capital for general corporate purposes and funds various investment opportunities. At December 31, 2009, the Company had $200 million outstanding under the 2007 facility with an interest rate of 0.44% and a maturity date during February 2010.
During February 2010, the Company rolled over $100 million in borrowings with an interest rate of 0.43% and a maturity date in May 2010.      Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. has a $140 million participation under the 2007 Facility; however BlackRock does not expect that Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. will honor its commitment to fund additional
amounts. Bank of America, a related party, has a $140 million participation under the 2007 facility.      In December 2007, in
order to support two enhanced cash funds that BlackRock manages, BlackRock elected to procure two letters of credit under the existing 2007 facility in an aggregate amount of $100 million. In December 2008, the letters of credit were terminated.
        
   F-61   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    13. Borrowings (continued)          

     Short-Term Borrowings (continued)           
    Commercial Paper Program       On October 14, 2009, BlackRock established a commercial paper program (the  CP Program ) under which the Company may issue
unsecured commercial paper notes (the  CP Notes ) on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $3 billion. The proceeds of the commercial paper issuances were used for the financing of a portion
of the BGI Transaction. Subsidiaries of Bank of America and Barclays, as well as other third parties, act as dealers under the CP Program. The CP Program is supported by the 2007 facility.      The Company began issuance of CP Notes under the CP Program on November 4, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, BlackRock had
approximately $2 billion of outstanding CP Notes with a weighted average interest rate of 0.20% and a weighted average maturity of 23 days. Since December 31, 2009, the Company repaid approximately $1.4 billion of CP Notes with proceeds from
the long-term notes issued in December 2009. As of March 5, 2010, BlackRock had $596 million of outstanding CP Notes with a weighted average interest rate of 0.18% and a weighted average maturity of 38 days.       Japan Commitment-line       In June 2008, BlackRock Japan Co., Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a five billion Japanese yen commitment-line agreement with a banking institution (the  Japan
Commitment-line ). The term of the Japan Commitment-line was one year and interest accrued at the applicable Japanese short-term prime rate. In June 2009, BlackRock Japan Co., Ltd. renewed the Japan Commitment-line for a term of one year.
The Japan Commitment-line is intended to provide liquidity and flexibility for operating requirements in Japan. At December 31, 2009, the Company had no borrowings outstanding on the Japan Commitment-line.        Convertible Debentures        In February 2005, the Company issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of convertible debentures (the  Debentures ), due in 2035 and bearing interest at a rate of 2.625% per annum.
Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year, and commenced August 15, 2005.      Prior to February 15, 2009, the Debentures could have been convertible at the option of the holder at a December 31, 2008 conversion rate of 9.9639 shares of common stock per one dollar principal amount of Debentures under certain
circumstances. The Debentures would have been convertible into cash and, in some situations as described below, additional shares of the Company s common stock, if during the five business day period after any five consecutive trading day
period the trading price per Debenture for each day of such period is less than 103% of the product of the last reported sales price of BlackRock s common stock and the conversion rate of the Debentures on each such day or upon the occurrence
of certain other corporate events, such as a distribution to the holders of BlackRock common stock of certain rights, assets or debt securities, if the Company becomes party to a merger, consolidation or transfer of all or substantially all of its
assets or a change of control of the Company. On February 15, 2009, the Debentures became convertible into cash at any time prior to maturity at the option of the holder and, in some situations as described below, additional shares of the
Company s common stock at the current conversion rate.         
   F-62   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    13. Borrowings (continued)          

     Convertible Debentures (continued)           
   At the time the Debentures are tendered for conversion, for each one dollar principal
amount of Debentures converted, a holder shall be entitled to receive cash and shares of BlackRock common stock, if any, the aggregate value of which (the  conversion value ) will be determined by multiplying the applicable conversion rate
by the average of the daily volume weighted average price of BlackRock common stock for each of the ten consecutive trading days beginning on the second trading day immediately following the day the Debentures are tendered for conversion (the
 ten-day weighted average price ). The Company will deliver the conversion value to holders as follows: (1) an amount in cash (the  principal return ) equal to the lesser of (a) the aggregate conversion value of the
Debentures to be converted and (b) the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures to be converted, and (2) if the aggregate conversion value of the Debentures to be converted is greater than the principal return, an amount in shares (the
 net shares ), determined as set forth below, equal to such aggregate conversion value less the principal return (the  net share amount ). The number of net shares to be paid will be determined by dividing the net share amount by
the ten-day weighted average price. In lieu of delivering fractional shares, the Company will deliver cash based on the ten-day weighted average price.      The conversion rate for the Debentures is subject to adjustments upon the occurrence of certain corporate events, such as a change of control of the Company, each payment of quarterly dividends greater
than $0.30 per share, the issuance of certain rights or warrants to holders of, or subdivisions on, BlackRock s common stock, a distribution of assets or indebtedness to holders of BlackRock common stock or a tender offer on the common stock.
The conversion rate adjustments vary depending upon the specific corporate event necessitating the adjustment and serve to ensure that any economic gains realized by the Company s stockholders are shared with the holders of the Debentures. The
initial conversion rate of 9.7282 was determined by the underwriters based on market conditions and has been subsequently revised to 10.0909 as a result of dividends paid by the Company that were in excess of $0.30 per share.      If the effective date or anticipated effective date of certain transactions that constitute a change of control occurs on or prior to
February 15, 2010, under certain circumstances, the Company will provide for a make-whole amount by increasing, for a certain time period, the conversion rate by a number of additional shares of common stock for any conversion of Debentures in
connection with such transactions. The amount of additional shares will be determined based on the price paid per share of BlackRock common stock in the transaction constituting a change of control and the effective date of such transaction.
However, if such transaction constitutes a public acquirer change of control, the Company may elect to issue shares of the acquiring company rather than BlackRock shares.      Beginning February 20, 2010, the Company may redeem any of the Debentures at a redemption price of 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest and
accrued and unpaid liquidated damages, if any upon not more than 60 but not less 30 days notice. Holders of the Debentures have the right to require the Company to repurchase the Debentures for cash on February 15, 2010, 2015, 2020, 2025 and
2030. In addition, holders of the Debentures may require the Company to repurchase the Debentures for cash at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest and accrued and
unpaid liquidated damages, if any, (i) upon a change of control of the Company or (ii) if BlackRock s common stock is neither listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange nor approved for trading on the NASDAQ.         
   F-63   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    13. Borrowings (continued)          

     Convertible Debentures (continued)           
   The Company is obligated to pay contingent interest, which is the amount of interest
payable to holders of the Debentures for any six-month period from February 15 to August 15 or from August 15 to February 15, with the initial six-month period commencing February 15, 2010, if the trading price of the
Debentures for each of the ten trading days immediately preceding the first day of the applicable six-month period equals 120% or more of the principal amount of the Debentures. During any period when contingent interest is payable, the contingent
interest payable per Debenture will equal 0.25% of the average trading price of the Debentures during the ten trading days immediately preceding the first day of the applicable six-month interest period.      On October 16, 2008, the Debentures became convertible at the option of the holders into cash and shares of the Company s common
stock, after the trustee determined that the trading price for the debentures on each day of a five consecutive trading day period was less than 103% of the product of the last reported sale price of the Company s common stock on such date and
the conversion rate on such date. The conversion period ended on October 30, 2008 after the Debentures failed to satisfy the trading price condition on October 24, 2008. During the conversion period holders of $0.5 million of Debentures
elected to convert their holdings into cash and shares.      During 2009, subsequent to the debentures becoming convertible on
February 15, 2009 into cash and shares of the Company s common stock at any time prior to maturity, the holders of $7 million of Debentures elected to convert their holdings into cash and shares. In addition, during January and February
2010, holders of $148 million of debentures elected to convert their holdings into cash and shares.      The Company recognized $10
million in each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 of interest expense, comprised in both periods of $6 million and $7 million related to the coupon and $4 million and $3 million related to amortization of the discount for the years
ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At December 31, 2009, the estimated fair value of the convertible debentures was $486 million, which was estimated using a market price at December 31, 2009.        Long-Term Borrowings         2017 Notes       In September 2007, the Company issued $700 million in aggregate
principal amount of 6.25% senior unsecured notes maturing on September 15, 2017 (the  2017 Notes ). Interest is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year, or approximately $44 million per year. The 2017
Notes may be redeemed prior to maturity at any time in whole or in part at the option of the Company at a  make-whole  redemption price. The 2017 Notes were issued at a discount of $6 million, which is being amortized over their ten-year
term. The Company incurred approximately $4 million in debt issuance costs, which are included in other assets on the consolidated statements of financial condition and are being amortized over the term of the 2017 Notes.         
   F-64   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    13. Borrowings (continued)          

     Long-Term Borrowings (continued)           
    2012, 2014 and 2019 Notes       In December 2009, the Company issued $2.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. These notes were
issued as three separate series of senior debt securities including $0.5 billion of 2.25% notes, $1.0 billion of 3.50% notes and $1.0 billion of 5.0% notes maturing in December 2012, 2014 and 2019, respectively. Net proceeds of this offering were
used to repay borrowings under our commercial paper program and for general corporate purposes. Interest on these notes is payable semi-annually on June 10 and December 10 of each year beginning June 10, 2010, or approximately $96
million per year. These notes may be redeemed prior to maturity at any time in whole or in part at the option of the Company at a  make-whole  redemption price. These notes were issued collectively at a discount of $5 million are being
amortized over the term of the notes. The Company incurred approximately $13 million in debt issuance costs, which are included in other assets on the consolidated statements of financial condition and are being amortized over the terms of the these
notes.       Carrying Value and Fair Value of Long-Term Borrowings       The carrying value and fair value estimated using an applicable bond index at December 31, 2009 of long-term borrowings included the
following:       
    The carrying value
and fair value estimated using an applicable bond index at December 31, 2008 of long-term borrowings included the following:       
       
   F-65   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    14. Commitments and Contingencies         Operating Lease Commitments        The Company leases its primary office space under agreements which expire through 2023. Future minimum commitments under these operating leases are as follows:       
    Rent expense and certain office equipment expense under
agreements amounted to $87 million, $92 million and $85 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      The above lease commitments include facilities which currently are leased from Merrill Lynch, a related party to BlackRock. Future lease commitments on such leases are $1 million per year in 2010 through
2014 and $3 million thereafter.         
   F-66   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    14. Commitments and Contingencies (continued)          
     Commitments         Investment Commitments       The Company has certain investment commitments relating primarily to funds of private equity funds, real estate funds and hedge funds. Dates shown below represent the expiration dates of the commitments.
Amounts to be funded generally are callable at any point prior to the expiration of the commitment. The Company has the following unfunded investment commitments at December 31, 2009:       
    This amount excludes additional commitments made by
consolidated funds of funds to underlying third party funds as third party non-controlling interest holders have the legal obligation to fund the respective commitments of such funds of funds.        Contingencies         Contingent Payments Related to Business Acquisitions       On October 1,
2007, the Company acquired the fund of funds business of Quellos. See Note 3, Mergers and Acquisitions, for further discussion. As part of this transaction, Quellos is entitled to receive two contingent payments upon achieving certain investment
advisory revenue measures through December 31, 2010, totaling up to an additional $969 million in a combination of cash and stock. The first contingent payment was paid in 2009 and the second contingent payment, of up to $595 million is payable
in cash in 2011.      During 2009, the Company determined the first contingent payment to be $219 million, of which $11 million was
previously paid in cash during 2008. Of the remaining $208 million, $156 million was paid in cash and $52 million was paid in common stock, or approximately 330,000 shares based on a price of $157.33 per share. Quellos may also be entitled to a
 catch-up  payment related to the first contingent payment if certain performance measures are met in 2011 as the value of the first contingent payment was less than $374 million.      In connection with the Impact Investing acquisition, the Company may be required to make several additional contingent payments upon
completion of certain operating measures through 2010, totaling up to $12 million. Currently, the payments are anticipated to be recorded as employee compensation.      On January 31, 2005, the Company closed the acquisition of SSR, the holding company of State Street Research   Management Company and SSR Realty Advisors, Inc. (renamed BlackRock Realty
Advisors, Inc.,  Realty ), from MetLife, Inc. ( MetLife ) for an adjusted purchase price of $265 million in cash and 550,000 shares of BlackRock restricted common stock. The stock purchase agreement provides for two contingent
payments. For the first contingent payment, MetLife received 32.5% of performance fees earned, as of March 31, 2006, from a large institutional real estate client. In 2006, the Company incurred and paid a fee sharing expense of $34 million
related to this arrangement. For the second contingent payment, on the fifth anniversary of the closing of the SSR Transaction, MetLife will receive an additional payment of approximately $9 million based on the Company s retained AUM
associated with the MetLife defined benefit and defined contribution plans.         
   F-67   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    14. Commitments and Contingencies (continued)          
    Capital Support Agreements       In December 2007, BlackRock entered into capital support agreements, up to $100 million, with two enhanced cash funds. These capital support
agreements were backed by letters of credit issued under BlackRock s revolving credit facility. In December 2008, the capital support agreements were modified to be up to $45 million and were no longer backed by the letters of credit. In
January and May 2009, the capital support agreements were terminated due to the closure of the related funds. During the six months ended June 30, 2009, the Company provided approximately $4 million of capital contributions to the funds under
the capital support agreements. At December 31, 2008, the derivative liability for the fair value of the capital support agreements for the two funds totaled approximately $18 million. The fair value of these liabilities increased and decreased
as BlackRock s obligation under the guarantee fluctuated based on the fair value of the derivative. Upon closure of the funds, the liability decreased $11 million, while the change in the liability was included in general and administration
expenses.       Other Contingent Payments       The Company acts as the portfolio manager in a series of credit default swap transactions and has a maximum potential exposure of $17 million under a credit default swap between the Company and Citibank.
See Note 9, Derivatives and Hedging, for further discussion of this transaction and the related commitment.       Legal
Proceedings       From time to time, BlackRock receives subpoenas or other requests for information from various U.S. federal,
state governmental and regulatory authorities in connection with certain industry-wide or other investigations or proceedings. It is BlackRock s policy to cooperate fully with such inquiries. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have
been named as defendants in various legal actions, including arbitrations and other litigation arising in connection with BlackRock s activities. Additionally, certain of the investment funds that the Company manages are subject to lawsuits,
any of which potentially could harm the investment returns of the applicable fund or result in the Company being liable to the funds for any resulting damages.      Management, after consultation with legal counsel, currently does not anticipate that the aggregate liability, if any, arising out of regulatory matters or lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on
BlackRock s earnings, financial position, or cash flows although, at the present time, management is not in a position to determine whether any such pending or threatened matters will have a material adverse effect on BlackRock s results
of operations in any future reporting period.       Indemnifications       In the ordinary course of business, BlackRock enters into contracts pursuant to which it may agree to indemnify third parties in certain
circumstances. The terms of these indemnities vary from contract to contract and the amount of indemnification liability, if any, cannot be determined.         
   F-68   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    14. Commitments and Contingencies (continued)          

    Indemnifications (continued)          
   Under the transaction agreement in the MLIM Transaction, the Company has agreed to
indemnify Merrill Lynch for losses it may incur arising from (1) any alleged or actual breach, failure to comply, violation or other deficiency with respect to any regulatory or fiduciary requirements relating to the operation of
BlackRock s business, (2) any fees or expenses incurred or owed by BlackRock to any brokers, financial advisors or comparable other persons retained or employed by BlackRock in connection with the MLIM Transaction, and (3) certain
specified tax covenants.      Under the transaction agreement in the BGI Transaction, the Company has agreed to indemnify Barclays
for losses it may incur arising from (1) breach by the Company of certain representations, (2) breach by the Company of any covenant in the agreement, (3) liabilities of the entities acquired in the transaction other than liabilities
assumed by Barclays or for which it is providing indemnification, and (4) certain taxes.      Management believes that the
likelihood of any liability arising under these indemnification provisions is remote. Management cannot estimate any potential maximum exposure due both to the remoteness of any potential claims and the fact that items that would be
included within any such calculated claim would be beyond the control of BlackRock. Consequently, no liability has been recorded on the consolidated statements of financial condition.         
   F-69   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    15. Stock-Based Compensation       The components of the Company s stock-based compensation expense are comprised of the following:       
      Stock Award and Incentive Plan
       Pursuant to the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the  Award Plan ), options to purchase
shares of the Company s common stock at an exercise price not less than the market value of BlackRock s common stock on the date of grant in the form of stock options, restricted stock or RSUs may be granted to employees and non-employee
directors. A maximum of 17,000,000 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance under the Award Plan. Of this amount, 2,737,416 shares remain available for future awards at December 31, 2009. Upon exercise of employee stock options, the
issuance of restricted stock or the vesting of RSUs, the Company issues shares out of treasury, to the extent available.         
   F-70   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    15. Stock-Based Compensation (continued)          
     Stock Options        Stock option grants were made to certain employees pursuant to the Award Plan in 1999 through 2003. Options granted have a ten-year life,
vest ratably over periods ranging from two to five years and become exercisable upon vesting. Prior to the January 2007 grant described below, the Company had not granted any stock options since 2003. Stock option activity for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is summarized below:       
     
    On January 31, 2007, the Company awarded options to purchase 1,545,735 shares of BlackRock common stock to certain executives as
long-term incentive compensation. The options will vest on September 29, 2011, as the Company had actual GAAP earnings per share in excess of $5.20 in 2009. The options have a strike price of $167.76, which was the closing price of the shares
on the grant date. Fair value, as calculated in accordance with a modified Black-Scholes model, was approximately $45.88 per option. The fair value of the options is being amortized over the vesting period as exceeding the performance hurdles was
deemed probable of occurring.      Assumptions used in calculating the grant-date fair value for the stock options issued in
January 2007 were as follows:       
       
   F-71   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    15. Stock-Based Compensation (continued)          

     Stock Options (continued)           
   The Company s expected option term was derived using the mathematical average
between the earliest vesting date and the option expiration date in accordance with ASC 718. The Company s expected stock volatility assumption was based upon historical stock price fluctuations of BlackRock s common stock. The dividend
yield assumption was derived using estimated dividends over the expected term and the stock price at the date of grant. The risk free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield at date of grant.      The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $63 million, $113 million
and $268 million, respectively.      Stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2009 are as follows:

F-72   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    15. Stock-Based Compensation (continued)          

     Stock Options (continued)           
   Fiscal year 2008 included a cumulative adjustment to the estimated forfeiture rate for
unvested stock options as a result of additional data on actual forfeiture activity.      As of December 31, 2009, the Company
had $21 million in unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested stock options. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted-average period of 1.8 years.        Restricted Stock and RSUs        Pursuant to the Award Plan, restricted stock grants and RSUs may be granted to certain employees. Restricted stock was issued for stock awards prior to 2006. RSUs were issued for the majority of grants in
2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009. These restricted shares and RSUs vest over periods ranging from one to five years and are expensed on the straight-line method over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the
award was, in-substance, multiple awards. Prior to 2009, the Company awarded restricted stock and RSUs with nonforfeitable dividend equivalent rights. Restricted stock and RSUs awarded in 2009 are not considered participating securities as dividend
equivalents are subject to forfeiture prior to vesting of the award.         
   F-73   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    15. Stock-Based Compensation (continued)          

     Restricted Stock and RSUs (continued)           
   Restricted stock and RSU activity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007 is summarized below:       
     
    On January 25, 2007, the Company issued approximately 901,200 RSUs to employees in conjunction with their annual incentive compensation
awards. The RSU awards vest over three years through January 2010. The value of the RSUs was calculated using BlackRock s closing stock price on the date of grant, or $169.70. The grant date fair value of the RSUs is being amortized into
earnings on the straight-line method over the requisite service period, net of expected forfeitures, for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was, in substance, multiple awards. In addition, in January 2007, the Company
granted 1,559,022 of RSUs as long-term incentive compensation, which will be funded by shares currently held by PNC.      In
January 2008 and 2009, the Company granted 295,633 and 23,417 RSUs, respectively, as long-term incentive compensation, which will be partially funded by shares currently held by PNC (see  Long-Term Incentive Plans Funded by PNC  below). The
awards cliff vest five years from the date of grant.         
   F-74   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    15. Stock-Based Compensation (continued)          

     Restricted Stock and RSUs (continued)           
   In January 2008 and 2009, the Company granted 1,212,759 and 1,789,685 RSUs,
respectively, to employees as part of annual incentive compensation under the Award Plan that vest ratably over three years from the date of grant.      At December 31, 2009, there was $291 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested restricted stock and RSUs. As of December 31, 2009, the unrecognized compensation cost is
expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average period of 1.6 years.      In January 2010, the Company granted the
following awards under the Award Plan:       

846,884 RSUs to employees as part of annual incentive compensation that vest ratably over three years from the date of grant.

256,311 RSUs to employees that cliff vest on January 31, 2012. Awards to certain individuals require that BlackRock has actual GAAP earnings per
share of at least $6.13 in 2010 or $6.50 in 2011 or has attained an alternative performance hurdle based on the Company s earnings per share growth rate versus certain peers over the term of the awards. The RSUs may not be sold before the
one-year anniversary of the vesting date.          
     
      Long-Term Incentive Plans Funded by
PNC        Under a share surrender agreement, PNC committed to provide up to 4,000,000 shares of BlackRock stock, held by
PNC, to fund certain BlackRock long-term incentive plans ( LTIP ). In February 2009, the share surrender agreement was amended for PNC to provide BlackRock series C non-voting participating preferred stock to fund the remaining committed
shares.      The BlackRock, Inc. 2002 Long-Term Retention and Incentive Plan (the  2002 LTIP Awards ) permitted the grant
of up to $240 million in deferred compensation awards, of which the Company previously granted approximately $233 million. Approximately $208 million of the 2002 LTIP Awards were paid in January 2007. The 2002 LTIP Awards were payable approximately
16.7% in cash and the remainder in BlackRock stock contributed by PNC and distributed to plan participants. Approximately $6 million of previously issued 2002 LTIP Awards will result in the settlement of BlackRock shares held by PNC through 2010 at
a conversion price approximating the market price on the settlement date. The fair value of the remaining 2002 LTIP Awards are accrued prior to settlement over the remaining service period in accrued compensation and benefits on the consolidated
statements of financial condition.      The settlement of the 2002 LTIP Awards in January 2007 resulted in the surrender by PNC of
approximately 1 million shares of BlackRock stock. Under the terms of the 2002 LTIP Awards, employees elected to put approximately 95% of the stock portion of the awards back to the Company at a total fair market value of approximately $166
million. On the payment date, the Company recorded a capital contribution from PNC for the amount of shares funded by PNC.         
   F-75   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    15. Stock-Based Compensation (continued)          

     Restricted Stock and RSUs (continued)           
   For the shares not put back to the Company, no dilution resulted from the delivery of
stock pursuant to the awards since they were funded by shares held by PNC and were issued and outstanding at December 31, 2006. Put elections made by employees were accounted for as treasury stock repurchases and are accretive to the
Company s earnings per share. The shares repurchased were retained as treasury stock.      During 2007, the Company granted
additional long-term incentive awards, out of the Award Plan, of approximately 1.6 million RSUs, that will be settled using BlackRock shares held by PNC in accordance with the share surrender agreement. The RSU awards will vest on September 29,
2011, the end of the service condition, as BlackRock had actual GAAP earnings per share in excess of $5.20 in 2009. The value of the RSUs was calculated using BlackRock s closing stock price on the date of grant. The grant date fair value of
the RSUs is being amortized as an expense on the straight-line method over the vesting period, net of expected forfeitures. The maximum value of awards that may be funded by PNC, prior to the earlier of September 29, 2011 or the date the
performance criteria are met, is approximately $271 million, all of which has been granted as of December 31, 2009.      Subsequent to September 29, 2011, the remaining committed PNC shares, of approximately 1.3 million, would be available to fund future long-term incentive awards.        Employee Stock Purchase Plan        Effective January 2007, the terms of the amended ESPP allow eligible employees to purchase the Company s common stock at 95% of the fair market value on the last day of each three-month offering
period. In accordance with ASC 718-10,  Compensation   Stock Compensation,  the Company does not record compensation expense related to employees purchasing shares under the amended ESPP.       16. Employee Benefit Plans         Deferred Compensation Plans         Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan       Effective January 2002, the Company adopted a Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan ( VDCP ) which allows participants to elect to
defer between 1% and 100% of that portion of the employee s annual incentive compensation not mandatorily deferred under the Involuntary Deferred Compensation Plan ( IDCP ). The participants must specify a deferral period of one,
three, five or ten years. The Company funds the obligation through the establishment of a rabbi trust on behalf of the participants in the plan.         
   F-76   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    16. Employee Benefit Plans (continued)          

     Deferred Compensation Plans (continued)           
    Involuntary Deferred Compensation Plan       Effective January 2002, the Company adopted an IDCP for the purpose of providing deferred compensation and retention incentives to key
officers and employees. The IDCP provided for a mandatory deferral of up to 15% of annual incentive compensation. For annual incentive awards for fiscal years prior to 2005, the mandatory deferral was matched by BlackRock in an amount equal to 20%
of the deferral for employees with total compensation above certain levels. The matching contribution related to the mandatory deferral vests on the third anniversary of the deferral date. The Company funds the obligation through a rabbi trust
established on behalf of the participants in the plan. No mandatory deferrals under the IDCP have been made since the annual incentive awards for fiscal year 2004.      During 2008, the IDCP was liquidated and all assets were distributed to the existing participants.       Rabbi Trust       The rabbi trust established for the IDCP and VDCP, with assets
totaling $57 million and $49 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, is reflected in investments on the Company s consolidated statements of financial condition. Such investments are classified as trading and other
investments. The corresponding liability balance of $57 million and $41 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, is reflected in the Company s consolidated statements of financial condition as accrued compensation and
benefits. Earnings in the rabbi trust, including unrealized appreciation or depreciation, are reflected as non-operating income or loss and changes in the corresponding liability are reflected as employee compensation and benefits expense in the
consolidated statements of income.       Other Deferred Compensation Plans       The Company has additional compensation plans for the purpose of providing deferred compensation and retention incentives to certain
employees. The final value of the deferred amount to be distributed upon vesting is associated with the returns of certain investment funds. The liability balances for these plans were $38 million and $9 million as of December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively, and are reflected in the Company s statements of financial condition as accrued compensation and benefits.      SSR and Realty had deferred compensation plans which allowed participants to elect to defer a portion of their annual incentive compensation or commissions for either a fixed term or until retirement and invest the funds in specified
investments. SSR has funded a portion of the obligation through the purchase of company-owned life insurance ( COLI ) policies to the benefit of SSR. The COLI assets are carried at fair value on the consolidated statement of financial
condition, and at December 31, 2009 and 2008, the value of the COLI assets was $11 million and $9 million, respectively, which were recorded in other assets. Changes in the cash surrender value of the COLI policies are recorded to non-operating
income in the consolidated statements of income. In addition, the Company has recorded a related obligation to repay the deferred incentive compensation, plus applicable earnings, to employees, which totaled $11 million and $9 million which were
recorded in accrued compensation and benefits on the consolidated statement of financial condition as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Changes in the Company s obligation under the these plans, as a result of appreciation of
the underlying investments in an employee s account, are recorded as compensation and benefits expense in the consolidated statements of income. Both plans no longer allow participants to defer a portion of their annual incentive compensation
or commissions.         
   F-77   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    16. Employee Benefit Plans (continued)          
     Defined Contribution Plans         BlackRock Retirement Savings Plan       Certain of the Company s employees participate in the BlackRock Retirement Savings Plan ( BRSP ). Under the BRSP, employee contributions of up to 6% of eligible compensation, as defined by
the plan and subject to Internal Revenue Code limitations, are matched by the Company at 50%. As part of the BRSP, the Company also will make an annual retirement contribution on behalf of each eligible participant equal to no less than 3% of
eligible compensation, plus an additional amount, determined in the discretion of the Company, not to exceed 2% of eligible compensation for a total contribution of no more than 5% of eligible compensation. The BRSP expense for the Company was $24
million, $33 million, and $31 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Contributions to the BRSP are made in cash and no new investments in BlackRock stock or matching contributions of stock are available in
the BRSP.       BGI 401(k) Savings Plan       The Company assumed a 401(k) Plan covering employees of BGI (the  BGI Plan ) as a result of the BGI Transaction. As part of the Barclays Global Investors Plan, employee contributions are matched
at 200% of participants  pre-tax contributions up to 2% of an employee s base salary, and matched 100% of the next 2% of base salary, as defined by the plan and subject to Internal Revenue Code limitations. The maximum matching
contribution a participant can receive is an amount equal to 6% of the base salary. The BGI Plan expense was immaterial to the Company s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009.       BGI Retirement Plan       The Company assumed a defined contribution money purchase pension plan ( BGI Retirement Plan ) as a result of the BGI Transaction. All salaried employees of BGI and its participating affiliates who are U.S. residents and on the
U.S. payroll are eligible to participate. For participants earning less than $100,000 in base salary, the Company contributes 6% of a participant s total compensation (base salary and performance bonus) up to $100,000. For participants earning
$100,000 or more in base salary, the Company contributes 6% of a participant s base salary up to $245,000. These contributions are 25% vested once the participant has completed two years of service and then vest at a rate of 25% for each
additional year of service completed. Employees with five or more years of service under the BGI Retirement Plan are 100% vested in their entire balance. The BGI Retirement Plan expense was immaterial to the Company s financial statements for
the year ended December 31, 2009.       BlackRock Group Personal Pension Plan       BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited ( BIM ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, contributes to the BlackRock Group
Personal Pension Plan, a defined contribution plan for all employees of BIM. BIM contributes between 6% and 15% of each employee s eligible compensation.       Research and Realty Plans       The Company assumed two 401(k) Plans covering
employees of SSR and Realty (the  Research Plan  and  Realty Plan,  respectively) as a result of the SSR Transaction. Effective with the closing of the SSR Transaction, contributions ceased for all participants in the Research
Plan and selected participants in the Realty Plan and the Research Plan was closed to new participants. All participants for which contributions ceased in either the Research Plan or Realty Plan, participated in the ISP through September 30,
2006 and became participants of the BRSP thereafter. For all employees who were active participants in the Realty Plan, employee contributions of up to 3% of eligible compensation, as well as an additional 50% of the next 2% of eligible
compensation, subject to Internal Revenue Code limitations, were matched by the Company.         
   F-78   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
   Effective November 1, 2007, the Company merged the assets of the Research Plan and
select participant accounts of the Realty Plan into the BRSP.       16. Employee Benefit Plans (continued)         Defined Benefit Plans        Prior to the BGI Transaction, the Company had several defined benefit pension plans in Japan, Germany, Luxembourg and Jersey. All accrued benefits under these defined benefit plans are currently frozen
and the plans are closed to new participants. In 2008 the defined benefit pension values in Luxembourg were transferred into a new defined contribution plan for such employees, removing future liabilities. Otherwise, participant benefits under the
plans will not change with salary increases or additional years of service. The unfunded liabilities are immaterial to the Company s 2009 and 2008 consolidated statements of financial condition.      Through the BGI Transaction, the Company assumed defined benefit pension plans in Japan and Germany, the  Japan Plan  and the
 Germany Plan , which are closed to new participants. At December 31, 2009, the plan assets for these plans were approximately $10 million and the unfunded obligations were less than $3 million which were recorded in accrued
compensation and benefits in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Benefit payments for the next five years and in aggregate for the five years thereafter are not expected to be material      Defined benefit plan assets for the Japan Plan of approximately $7 million are invested using a total return investment approach whereby a
mix of equity securities, debt securities and other investments are used to preserve asset values, diversify risk and achieve the target investment return benchmark. Investment strategies and asset allocations are based on consideration of plan
liabilities and the funded status of the plan. Investment performance and asset allocation are measured and monitored on an ongoing basis. The current target allocations for the plan assets are 39-44% for equity securities, 52-54% for fixed income
securities and 4-7% for cash. Equity securities include U.S. and international equity securities and fixed income securities include long-duration bond funds.      Defined benefit plan assets for the Germany Plan of approximately $3 million are invested in a balanced portfolio comprised of two major components: an equity portion and a fixed income portion. The
expected role of defined benefit plan equity investments is to maximize the long-term real growth of fund assets, while the role of fixed income investments is to generate current income, provide for more stable periodic returns and provide some
protection against a prolonged decline in the market value of equity investments.        Post-retirement Benefit Plans
       Prior to the BGI Transaction, the Company had requirements to deliver post-retirement medical benefits to a closed
population based in the United Kingdom. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, expenses for these benefits were immaterial to the Company s consolidated financial statements.      Through the BGI Transaction, the Company assumed a requirement to deliver post-retirement medical benefits to a closed population of former
BGI employees in the United States and the United Kingdom.      The post-retirement medical plan costs are developed from actuarial
valuations which include key assumptions, including the discount rate and health care cost trends. Material changes in retiree medical plan benefit costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions, changes in the number of plan
participants and increases in the cost of healthcare.         
   F-79   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    16. Employee Benefit Plans (continued)          

     Post-retirement Benefit Plans (continued)           
   Accrued post-retirement costs are included in accrued compensation and benefits in the
consolidated statements of financial condition. At December 31, 2009, the accumulated benefit obligation was approximately $14 million and is unfunded. For the one month ended December 31, 2009, expenses for these benefits were immaterial
to the Company s consolidated financial statements. Benefit payments for the next five years and in aggregate for the five years thereafter are not expected to be material. The estimated impact of a one percentage-point change in the discount
rate would be a change of less than $1 million on 2009 pension expense and would change the projected benefit obligation by less than $3 million.       17. Related Party Transactions         Determination of Related Parties        As a result of the BGI Transaction, Barclays acquired approximately 19.8% of the total capital stock of BlackRock. See Note 3,
Mergers and Acquisitions, for further discussion. The Company has considered Barclays, along with its affiliates, to be related parties in accordance with ASC 850-10,  Related Party Disclosures  ( ASC 850-10 ), since the closing of
the BGI Transaction based on its level of ownership. At December 31, 2009, Barclays owned approximately 4.8% of the Company s common stock and held approximately 19.8% of the total capital stock.      As a result of the MLIM Transaction in 2006 the Company considered Merrill Lynch, along with its affiliates, to be related parties, since the
closing of the MLIM Transaction based on its level of ownership. At December 31, 2009, Merrill Lynch owned approximately 3.7% of the Company s voting common stock and held approximately 34.2% of the total capital stock.      For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company considered PNC, along with its affiliates, to be related parties based
on the level of its ownership of BlackRock capital stock. At December 31, 2009, PNC owned approximately 35.2% of the Company s voting common stock and held approximately 24.5% of the total capital stock.      For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company considers its registered investment companies, which include mutual
funds and exchanged traded funds, to be related parties as a result of the Company s advisory relationship. In addition, equity method investments are considered related parties in accordance with ASC 850-10 due to the Company s influence
over the financial and operating policies of the investee.         
   F-80   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    17. Related Party Transactions (continued)          
     Investment Advisory and Administration Fees from Related Parties
       Revenues for services provided by the Company to these and other related parties are as follows:       
    The Company provides investment advisory and
administration services to its open- and closed-end funds and other commingled or pooled funds and separate accounts in which related parties invest. In addition, the Company provides investment advisory and administration services to Merrill Lynch,
PNC and its affiliates for a fee based on AUM. Further, the Company provides risk management services to PNC and Merrill Lynch. The Company contracts with Merrill Lynch for various mutual fund distribution and shareholder servicing to be performed
on behalf of certain non-U.S. funds managed by the Company. The company records its investment advisory and administration fees net of retrocessions, therefore retrocessions are not included in the table above. Such retrocession arrangements for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $85 million, $118 million and $118 million, respectively.         
   F-81   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    17. Related Party Transactions (continued)          
     Aggregate Expenses for Transactions with Related Parties        Aggregate expenses included in the consolidated statements of income for transactions with related parties are as follows:       
       
   F-82   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    17. Related Party Transactions (continued)          
     Certain Agreements and Arrangements with Merrill Lynch and PNC     
   Global Distribution Agreement       On September 29, 2006, BlackRock entered into a global distribution agreement with Merrill Lynch. The global distribution agreement provides a framework under which Merrill Lynch provides
distribution and servicing of client investments in certain BlackRock investment advisory products. Pursuant to the global distribution agreement, Merrill Lynch has agreed to cause each of its distributors to continue distributing BlackRock covered
products and covered products of the former MLIM Business that it distributed as of February 15, 2006 on the same economic terms as were in effect on February 15, 2006 or as the parties otherwise agree. For new covered products introduced
by BlackRock to Merrill Lynch for distribution that do not fall within an existing category, type or platform of covered products distributed by Merrill Lynch, the Merrill Lynch distributors must be offered the most favorable economic terms offered
by BlackRock to other distributors of the same product. If a covered product that does not fall within an existing category, type or platform of covered products distributed by Merrill Lynch becomes part of a group or program of similar products
distributed by the Merrill Lynch distributors, some of which are sponsored by managers other than BlackRock, the economic terms offered by Merrill Lynch distributors to BlackRock for the distribution of such covered products must be at least as
favorable as the most favorable economic terms to which any such product is entitled.       July 2008 Changes to Stockholder and
Global Distribution Agreements       In July 2008, the Company entered into an amended and restated stockholder agreement and an
amended and restated global distribution agreement with Merrill Lynch.      These changes to the stockholder agreement with Merrill
Lynch, among other items, (i) provide Merrill Lynch with additional flexibility to form or acquire asset managers substantially all of the business of which is devoted to non-traditional investment management strategies such as short selling,
leverage, arbitrage, specialty finance and quantitatively-driven structured trades; (ii) expand the definition of change in control of Merrill Lynch to include the disposition of two-thirds or more of its Global Wealth   Investment
Management business; (iii) extend the general termination date to the later of July 16, 2013 or the date Merrill Lynch s beneficial ownership of BlackRock voting securities falls below 20%; and (iv) clarify certain other
provisions in the agreement.     The changes in the global distribution agreement in relation to the prior agreement, among other
things, (i) provide for an extension of the term to five years from the date of a change in control of Merrill Lynch (to January 1, 2014 following Bank of America s acquisition of Merrill Lynch) and one automatic 3-year extension if
certain conditions are satisfied; (ii) strengthen the obligations of Merrill Lynch to achieve revenue neutrality across the range of BlackRock products distributed by Merrill Lynch if the pricing or structure of particular products is required
to be changed; (iii) obligate Merrill Lynch to seek to obtain distribution arrangements for BlackRock products from buyers of any portion of its distribution business on the same terms as the global distribution agreement for a period of at
least 3 years; and (iv) restrict the manner in which products managed by alternative asset managers in which Merrill Lynch has an interest may be distributed by Merrill Lynch.      The total amount expensed by BlackRock during 2009, 2008 and 2007 related to Merrill Lynch distribution and servicing of products covered by
the global distribution agreement, including mutual funds, separate accounts, liquidity funds, alternative investments and insurance products, was approximately $337 million, $456 million and $437 million, respectively.         
   F-83   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    17. Related Party Transactions (continued)          

     Certain Agreements and Arrangements with Merrill Lynch and PNC (continued)

July 2008 Changes to Stockholder and Global Distribution Agreements (continued)
         
   In connection with the closings under the exchange agreements, on February 27, 2009
BlackRock entered into a second amended and restated stockholder agreement with Merrill Lynch and an amended and restated implementation and stockholder agreement with PNC, and a third amendment to the share surrender agreement with PNC. See Note
19, Capital Stock, for further discussion.      The changes contained in the amended and restated stockholder agreement with
Merrill Lynch, in relation to the prior agreement, among other things, (i) revised the definitions of  Fair Market Value,   Ownership Cap  and  Significant Stockholder  and (ii) amended or supplemented
certain other definitions and provisions therein to incorporate series B preferred stock and series C preferred stock, respectively. The changes contained in the amended and restated stockholder agreement with PNC, in relation to the prior
agreement, among other things, (i) revised the definitions of  Fair Market Value,   Ownership Cap,   Ownership Percentage,   Ownership Threshold  and  Significant Stockholder  and
(ii) amended or supplemented certain other provisions therein to incorporate series B preferred stock and series C preferred stock, respectively.      The amendment to the share surrender agreement with PNC provided for the substitution of series C preferred stock for the shares of common stock subject to the share surrender agreement.       June 2009 Changes to Stockholder Agreements       In connection with the BGI Transaction, certain additional amendments were made to the amended and restated stockholder agreements with Merrill Lynch and PNC.      The amended and restated stockholder agreement with Merrill Lynch was changed to, among other things, (i) amend or supplement certain
definitions and provisions therein to incorporate series D participating preferred stock, (ii) amend the provision relating to the composition of BlackRock s Board of Directors and (iii) add certain provisions relating to the U.S.
Bank Holding Company Act.      The amended and restated stockholder agreement with PNC was changed to, among other things,
(i) revise the definitions of  Ownership Cap  and  Ownership Threshold,  (ii) amend or supplement certain other definitions and provisions therein to incorporate series D participating preferred stock,
(iii) provide that none of the transfer restriction provisions set forth in the amended and restated stockholder agreement with PNC shall apply to the shares purchased by PNC as part of the financing for the BGI Transaction, (iv) amend the
provision relating to the composition of BlackRock s Board of Directors and (v) provide that the amended and restated stockholder agreement with PNC shall terminate upon the later of (A) the five year anniversary of the amended and
restated stockholder agreement with PNC and (B) the first date on which PNC and its affiliates beneficially own less than 5% of the outstanding BlackRock capital stock, subject to certain other conditions specified therein.       Other Agreements       On September 29, 2006, BlackRock entered into a transition services agreement with Merrill Lynch and its controlled affiliates to allow BlackRock to transition from relying on Merrill Lynch for various functions for the former MLIM
Business and to allow Merrill Lynch to transition from relying on the former MLIM Business for various functions. The pricing for such services is required to be consistent with historical practices. The total amount expensed by BlackRock for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 relating to the transition services agreement with Merrill Lynch was approximately $3 million, $1 million and $5 million, respectively.      In connection with the MLIM Transaction, Merrill Lynch has agreed that it will provide reimbursement to BlackRock for employee incentive
awards issued to former MLIM employees who became BlackRock employees subsequent to the MLIM Transaction. Reimbursements will amount to 50% of the total amount of awards to former MLIM employees between $100 million and $200 million. The Company is
entitled to invoice Merrill Lynch following its determination of the portion of awards entitled to reimbursement for a given calendar year. Through January 2007, the Company had issued total eligible incentive compensation to qualified employees in
excess of $200 million. In August 2009, Merrill Lynch reimbursed $25 million to BlackRock for employee incentive awards issued to former MLIM employees who became BlackRock employees subsequent to the MLIM Transaction. Upon receipt, the
reimbursement was recorded as a capital contribution.      Effective September 29, 2006, the Company leases certain office
buildings from Merrill Lynch. The lease agreements expire by 2018. Rent expense of $2 million, $5 million and $18 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, was recorded related to office buildings leased from
Merrill Lynch.         
   F-84   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    17. Related Party Transactions (continued)          

     Certain Agreements and Arrangements with Merrill Lynch and PNC (continued)

Other Agreements (continued)          
   Merrill Lynch and certain of its affiliates have been engaged by the Company to provide
recordkeeping, administration and trustee services to the BRSP. The compensation to Merrill Lynch and its affiliates for these services paid by the Company was not material.       Termination of Closed-end Fund and Servicing Arrangements       On September 28, 2007, the Company insourced certain closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements in place with Merrill
Lynch. In connection with this insourcing, the Company terminated 40 agreements with Merrill Lynch with original terms ranging from 30 to 40 years and made a one-time payment to Merrill Lynch of $128 million on October 31, 2007. The payment is
reported as  termination of closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements  on the consolidated statement of income. As a result of these terminations, Merrill Lynch was discharged of any further duty to provide the services and
BlackRock was discharged from any further payment obligation.        Certain Agreements and Arrangements with Barclays
        Barclays Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement       On November 30, 2009, BlackRock, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays PLC (for limited purposes) entered into an Amended and Restated Stock
Purchase Agreement (the  Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement ). The Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement amended and restated the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 16, 2009, by and among
BlackRock, Barclays and Barclays PLC (for limited purposes), which provided for the acquisition by BlackRock of BGI from Barclays. The revised terms relate, among other things, to the amount of cash and capital required to be held by the
various BGI entities at the closing of the acquisition and to the post-closing purchase price adjustment mechanism. On December 1, 2009, BlackRock completed its acquisition of BGI pursuant to the Amended and Restated Stock Purchase
Agreement.       Barclays Stockholder Agreement       In connection with the completion of its acquisition of BGI, BlackRock entered into a Stockholder Agreement, dated as of December 1,
2009 (the  Barclays Stockholder Agreement ), with Barclays and Barclays BR Holdings S. .r.l. ( BR Holdings , and together with Barclays, the  Barclays Parties ). Pursuant to the terms of the Barclays
Stockholder Agreement, the Barclays Parties agreed, among other things, to certain transfer and voting restrictions with respect to shares of BlackRock common stock and preferred stock owned by them and their affiliates, to limits on the ability of
the Barclays Parties and their affiliates to acquire additional shares of BlackRock common stock and preferred stock and to certain other restrictions. In addition, the Barclays Stockholder Agreement contains certain provisions relating to the
composition of BlackRock s board of directors, including a requirement that BlackRock s board must consist of not more than 19 directors, with two directors designated by the Barclays Parties.       Other Agreements       Barclays and certain of its affiliates have been engaged by the Company to provide the use of certain indices for certain BlackRock investments funds and to provide indemnification to clients related to potential losses in connection with
lending of client securities. For the year ended December 31, 2009 such amounts were not material.         
   F-85   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    17. Related Party Transactions (continued)          
     Receivables and Payables with Related Parties        Due from related parties was $189 million and $309 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and primarily represented a tax
indemnification asset due from Barclays at December 31, 2009, receivables for investment advisory and administration services provided by BlackRock, and other receivables from certain investment products managed by BlackRock. Due from related
parties at December 31, 2009 included $72 million of a tax indemnification asset due from Barclays, $57 million due from certain funds, $48 million in receivables from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, PNC and Barclays and $12.5 million in loan
receivables from Anthracite Capital, Inc. ( Anthracite ) (see below). Due from related parties at December 31, 2008 included $200 million and $40 million in loan receivables and unsettled redemptions, respectively, from a warehouse
entity established to launch certain private equity funds of funds and Anthracite (see below), and $20 million in receivables from Merrill Lynch and PNC.      Accounts receivable at December 31, 2009 and 2008 includes $492 million and $253 million, respectively, related to receivables from BlackRock mutual funds and iShares for investment advisory and
administration services.      Due to related parties was $439 million and $103 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, and primarily represented payables and accrued liabilities under the Merrill Lynch global distribution agreement and assumed liabilities from the BGI Transaction. Due to related parties at December 31, 2009 included $330 million
and $95 million payable to Barclays and Merrill Lynch, respectively. The payable at December 31, 2009 to Barclays included non-interest bearing notes that were assumed by BlackRock at the close of the BGI Transaction related to certain acquired tax
receivables and other contractual items. Due to related parties as of December 31, 2008 included $78 million payable to Merrill Lynch and $5 million payable to PNC for fund distribution and servicing costs.        Loan Commitments with Anthracite        At December 31, 2009, the Company was committed to provide financing of up to $60 million, until March 2010, to Anthracite, a specialty commercial real estate finance company that is managed by a
subsidiary of BlackRock. The financing is collateralized by Anthracite pledging its ownership interest in a real estate debt investment fund, which is also managed by a subsidiary of BlackRock. At December 31, 2009, $33.5 million of financing
was outstanding and remains outstanding as of March 10, 2010 which is past its final maturity date of March 5, 2010. At December 31, 2009, the value of the collateral was estimated to be $12.5 million, which resulted in a $21 million
reduction in due from related parties on the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition and an equal amount recorded in general and administration expense in the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company has no obligation to
loan additional amounts to Anthracite under this facility.         
   F-86   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    18. Net Capital Requirements       The Company is required to maintain net capital in certain regulated subsidiaries within a number of jurisdictions, which is met in part by
retaining cash and cash equivalent investments in those jurisdictions. As a result such subsidiaries of the Company may be restricted in their ability to transfer cash between different jurisdictions and to their parents. Additionally, transfer of
cash between international jurisdictions, including repatriation to the United States, may have adverse tax consequences that could discourage such transfers. At December 31, 2009, the Company was required to maintain approximately $857 million
in net capital at these subsidiaries, including BlackRock Institutional Trust Company, National Association ( BTC ), and is in compliance with all applicable regulatory minimum net capital requirements.        Broker-dealers        BlackRock Investments, LLC, and BlackRock Capital Markets, LLC, BlackRock Execution Services and BlackRock Fund Distribution Company are registered broker-dealers and wholly-owned subsidiaries of
BlackRock that are subject to the Uniform Net Capital requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which requires maintenance of certain minimum net capital levels.        Banking Regulatory Requirements        BTC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is chartered as a national bank whose powers are limited to trust activities. BTC is subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the
Federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company s
consolidated financial statements. Under the capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Company must meet specific capital guidelines that invoke quantitative measures of the Company s assets,
liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under the regulatory accounting practices. BTC s capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and
other factors.      To be categorized as  adequately capitalized , BTC must maintain minimum Total risk-based, Tier 1
risk-based (capital to risk weighted assets), and Tier 1 leverage ratios (capital to average assets) as set forth in the table below. BTC has sufficient capital to be considered  adequately capitalized.       The following schedule provides BTC s regulatory capital amounts and ratios at December 31, 2009 as well as the required capital
amounts to be considered well capitalized under prompt correct action provisions of Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act:       
       
   F-87   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    19. Capital Stock         Capital Stock Authorized        BlackRock s authorized common stock,
$0.01 par value, was 500,000,000 shares at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, BlackRock had 20,000,000 series A non-voting participating preferred shares, $0.01 par value, authorized. At December 31, 2009, BlackRock had
150,000,000 series B non-voting participating preferred shares, $0.01 par value, authorized. At December 31, 2009, BlackRock had 6,000,000 series C non-voting participating preferred shares, $0.01 par value, authorized. At December 31,
2009, BlackRock had 20,000,000 series D non-voting participating preferred shares, $0.01 par value, authorized.        Common
Shares Held in Escrow        On October 1, 2007, the Company acquired the fund of funds business of Quellos. See Note 3,
Mergers and Acquisitions, for further discussion. The Company issued 1,191,785 shares of BlackRock common stock that were placed into an escrow account. The common shares held in escrow had no dilutive effect for 2007. In April 2008, 280,519 common
shares were released to Quellos in accordance with the Quellos asset purchase agreement, which resulted in an adjustment to the recognized purchase price and had a dilutive effect in 2008. In November 2009, 42,326 additional common shares were
released and will have a dilutive effect in 2009. The remaining 868,940 common shares may have a dilutive effect in future periods based on the timing of the release of shares from the escrow account in accordance with the Quellos asset purchase
agreement.        February 2009 Capital Exchanges        On January 1, 2009, Bank of America acquired Merrill Lynch. In connection with this transaction, BlackRock entered into exchange
agreements with each of Merrill Lynch and PNC pursuant to which each agreed to exchange a portion of the BlackRock common stock it held for an equal number of shares of non-voting participating preferred stock. On February 27, 2009,
Merrill Lynch exchanged (i) 49,865,000 shares of BlackRock s common stock for a like number of shares of BlackRock s series B non-voting participating preferred stock, and (ii) 12,604,918 shares of BlackRock s series A
preferred stock for a like number of shares of series B preferred stock, and PNC exchanged (i) 17,872,000 shares of BlackRock s common stock for a like number of shares of series B preferred stock and (ii) 2,889,467 shares of
BlackRock s common stock for a like number of shares of BlackRock s series C non-voting participating preferred stock.     Below is a summary description of the series B and C preferred stock issued in the exchanges.      The series B non-voting
participating preferred stock:       

is non-voting except as otherwise provided by applicable law;          

participates in dividends on a basis generally equal to the common stock;          

benefits from a liquidation preference of $0.01 per share; and          

is mandatorily convertible to BlackRock common stock upon transfer to an unrelated party.            
   F-88   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    19. Capital Stock (continued)          
   The series C non-voting participating preferred stock:       

is non-voting except as otherwise provided by applicable law;          

participates in dividends on a basis generally equal to the common stock;          

benefits from a liquidation preference of $40.00 per share; and is only convertible to BlackRock common stock upon the termination of the obligations
of PNC under its share surrender agreement with BlackRock.           Capital Stock Activities Related to BGI
Transaction        In June 2009, the Company issued to an institutional investor 2,133,713 shares of BlackRock s common
stock at $140.60 per share. The $300 million proceeds from this issuance was used to fund a portion of the purchase of BGI. See Note 3, Mergers and Acquisitions, for further discussion.      On December 1, 2009, pursuant to separate stock purchase agreements entered into on June 11, 2009 and June 12, 2009, as
amended, BlackRock sold an aggregate of 8,637,519 shares of common stock, 5,587,232 shares of series B non-voting participating preferred stock and 3,556,188 shares of series D non-voting participating preferred stock (collectively, the
 Financing Shares ) to certain institutional investors, including the sale of the 3,556,188 shares of series D non-voting participating preferred stock to PNC, each at a price of $140.60 per share. The Company received approximately
$2.5 billion in total consideration from the sale of the Financing Shares, which was also used to fund the cash portion of the purchase of BGI.      In addition on December 1, 2009, the Company issued 7,647,524 of series D non-voting participating preferred stock to Barclays as part of the consideration for the purchase of BGI.      Below is a summary description of the series D preferred stock issued in the sales to PNC and Barclays.      The series D non-voting participating preferred stock:       

is non-voting except as otherwise provided by applicable law;          

participates in dividends on a basis generally equal to the common stock;          

benefits from a liquidation preference of $0.01 per share; and          

was converted to series B preferred stock 20 days after an information statement in connection with the Amended and Restated Purchase Agreement was
mailed by the Company to holders of it common stock. See Note 25, Subsequent Events, for further discussion.           Cash Dividends        During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company paid cash
dividends of $3.12 per common/preferred share (or $422 million), $3.12 per common/preferred share (or $419 million) and $2.68 per common/preferred share (or $353 million), respectively.         
   F-89   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    19. Capital Stock (continued)          
   The Company s common and preferred shares issued and outstanding and related
activity consist of the following:       
       
   F-90   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    20. Restructuring Charges       During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company reduced its workforce globally by approximately 9%. This action was the result of a
cost cutting initiative designed to streamline operations, enhance competitiveness and better position the Company in the asset management marketplace. The Company recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of approximately $38 million
($26 million after-tax) for the year ended December 31, 2008. This charge was comprised of $34 million of severance and associated outplacement costs, $3 million of expenses related to the accelerated amortization of previously granted
equity-based compensation awards, and $1 million of expenses related to legal services for the year ended December 31, 2008.      During the three months ended March 31, 2009, the Company continued to reduce its workforce globally. This action was the result of business reengineering efforts designed to streamline operations, enhance competitiveness and
better position the Company in the asset management marketplace. The Company recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $22 million ($14 million after-tax) for the three months ended March 31, 2009. This charge was comprised of $15
million of severance and associated outplacement costs, $4 million of property costs associated with the lease payments for the remaining term in excess of the estimated sublease proceeds and $3 million of expenses related to the accelerated
amortization of previously granted stock-based compensation awards.      The following table presents a rollforward of the
Company s restructuring liability, which is included within other liabilities on the Company s consolidated statements of financial condition at December 31, 2009.       
       
   F-91   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    21. Income Taxes       The components of income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, are as follows:       
    Income tax expense has been based on the following components of income before taxes, less net income (loss)
attributable to non-controlling interests:       
       
   F-92   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    21. Income Taxes (continued)          
   A reconciliation of income tax expense with expected federal income tax expense computed
at the applicable federal income tax rate of 35% is as follows:       
    Deferred income taxes are provided for the effects of temporary differences between the tax basis of an
asset or liability and its reported amount in the Company s consolidated financial statements. These temporary differences result in taxable or deductible amounts in future years.      The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown below:       
       
   F-93   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    21. Income Taxes (continued)          
   Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded net when related to the same tax
jurisdiction. At December 31, 2009, the Company recorded on the consolidated statement of financial condition deferred income tax assets, within other assets, and deferred tax liabilities of $23 million and $5,526 million, respectively. At
December 31, 2008, the Company recorded on the statement of financial condition deferred income tax assets, within other assets, and deferred tax liabilities of $11 million and $1,826 million, respectively.      During third quarter 2009, legislation was enacted primarily with respect to New York City corporate income taxes, effective January 1,
2009 which resulted in a revaluation of deferred income tax assets and liabilities. As a result, the Company recorded a one-time deferred income tax benefit of $45 million in 2009.      The Company had a deferred tax asset related to unrealized investment losses of approximately $163 million and $157 million for the as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, reflecting the Company s conclusion that based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will be realized. During 2008, the Company incurred
investment losses of $573 million primarily related to unrealized losses on investments. Substantially all of the investment losses relate to investments held by subsidiaries in the United States. After the allocation of net loss attributable to
non-controlling interests of $155 million, the net loss on investments was $418 million. A portion of net loss is expected to be ordinary if recognized and, as a result, will not be subject to any limitations. Realized capital losses may be carried
back three years and carried forward five years and offset against realized capital gains for federal income tax purposes. The Company expects to be able to carry back a portion of its unrealized capital losses when realized, hold certain fixed
income securities over a period sufficient for them to recover their unrealized losses, and to generate future capital gains sufficient to offset the unrealized capital losses.      As of December 31, 2009, the Company had a foreign net operating loss carryforward of $14 million which expires on or before 2016. In
addition, at December 31, 2009, the Company had U.S. capital loss carryforwards of $125 million, which were acquired in the BGI Transaction and which will expire on or before 2013.      At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had $64 million and $14 million of valuation allowances, respectively, recorded on the
consolidated statements of financial condition. The year over year increase in the valuation allowance primarily related to U.S. capital loss carryforwards, acquired in the BGI Transaction, which may be subject to utilization restrictions and
certain foreign deferred tax assets.      Goodwill recorded in connection with the Quellos Transaction has been reduced during the
period by the amount of tax benefit realized from tax-deductible goodwill. See Note 11, Goodwill, for further discussion.      Current income taxes are recorded net in the consolidated statements of financial condition when related to the same tax jurisdiction. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had current income taxes receivable and payable of $271 million
and $96 million, respectively, recorded in other assets and accounts payable and accrued liabilities, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had current income taxes receivable and payable of $44 million and $120 million,
respectively, recorded in other assets and accounts payable and accrued liabilities, respectively.         
   F-94   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    21. Income Taxes (continued)          
   The Company does not provide the deferred taxes on the excess of the financial reporting
over tax basis on its investments in foreign subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration. The excess totaled $778 million and $561 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The determination of the additional deferred
taxes on the excess have not been provided because it is not practicable due to the complexities associated with its hypothetical calculation.      As a result of the adoption of ASC 740-10 related to uncertainty in income taxes, the Company recognized approximately $15 million in increased income tax reserves related to uncertain tax positions.
Approximately $14 million of this increase related to taxes that would affect the effective tax rate if recognized, and this portion was accounted for as a reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance in retained earnings. The remaining $1 million
balance, if disallowed, would not affect the annual effective tax rate and is recorded in deferred tax assets, which is reflected in other assets on the Company s consolidated statements of financial condition. Total gross unrecognized tax
benefits at January 1, 2007 were approximately $52 million. The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would have affected the effective tax rate at January 1, 2007, was approximately $26 million.      The following tabular reconciliation presents the total amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which are recorded in other liabilities
on the consolidated statements of financial condition:       
    Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively,
are $184 million, $60 million and $41 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate.      The
Company recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters as a component of income tax expense. Related to the unrecognized tax benefits noted above, the Company accrued interest and penalties of $8 million during 2009 and in total, as
of December 31, 2009, has recognized a liability for interest and penalties of $48 million, of which $28 million was assumed in the BGI Transaction. During 2008, the Company accrued interest and penalties of $5 million and in total, as of
December 31, 2008, had recognized a liability for interest and penalties of $11 million. During 2007, the Company accrued interest and penalties of $2 million and in total, as of December 31, 2007, had recognized a liability for interest
and penalties of $6 million.      Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement, the Company will be indemnified by
Barclays for $72 million of unrecognized tax benefits, which is reflected as an offsetting asset in due from related parties on the Company s statements of financial condition.      BlackRock is subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax in multiple jurisdictions. The tax years after 2004 remain open to U.S.
federal, state and local income tax examination, and the tax years after 2005 remain open to income tax examination in the United Kingdom. With few exceptions, as of December 31, 2009, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state,
local or foreign examinations by tax authorities for years before 2005. The Internal Revenue Service is currently examining the Company's 2006 and 2007 tax years. The Company is currently under audit in several state and foreign jurisdictions.
        
   F-95   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    21. Income Taxes (continued)          
   As of December 31, 2009, it is reasonably possible the total amounts of
unrecognized tax benefits will decrease within the next twelve months. Until formal resolutions are reached between the Company and tax authorities, the determination of a possible audit settlement range with respect to the impact on unrecognized
tax benefits is not practicable. The Company does not anticipate that any possible adjustments resulting from these audits would result in a material change to its consolidated financial statements.      Prior to September 29, 2006, BlackRock had filed selected state and municipal income tax returns with one or more PNC subsidiaries on a
combined or unitary basis. When BlackRock was included in a group s combined or unitary state or municipal income tax filing with PNC subsidiaries, BlackRock s share of the liability generally was an allocation to BlackRock of a percentage
of the total tax liability based upon BlackRock s level of activity in such state or municipality. PNC and BlackRock have entered into a tax disaffiliation agreement that sets forth each party s rights and obligations with respect to
income tax payments and refunds and addresses related matters such as the filing of tax returns and the conduct of audits or other proceedings involving claims made by taxing authorities. As such, the Company may be responsible for its pro rata
share of tax positions taken by PNC for unaudited tax years which may be subsequently challenged by taxing authorities. Management does not anticipate that any such amounts would be material to the Company s operations, financial position or
cash flows.       22. Earnings Per Share       The following table sets forth the computation of basic earnings per common share:       
       
   F-96   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

    22. Earnings Per Common Share (continued)          
   The following table sets forth the computation of diluted earnings per common share:
      
    Due to the
similarities in terms between BlackRock series A, B, C and D non-voting participating preferred stock and the Company s common stock, the Company considers the series A, B, C and D non-voting participating preferred stock to be a common stock
equivalent for purposes of earnings per share calculations. As such, the Company has included the outstanding series A, B, C and D non-voting participating preferred stock in the calculation of average basic and diluted shares outstanding for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.      For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, 1,240,998,
1,336,911, and 1,545,735 stock options, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share because to include them would have an anti-dilutive effect.        Shares issued in Quellos Transaction        On October 1, 2007, the Company acquired the fund of funds business of Quellos. See Note 3, Mergers and Acquisitions, for further discussion. The Company issued 1,191,785 shares of BlackRock
common stock that were placed into an escrow account. The common shares issued had no dilutive effect for 2007. In April 2008, 280,519 common shares were released to Quellos in accordance with the Quellos asset purchase agreement, which resulted in
an adjustment to the recognized purchase price and had a dilutive effect in 2008. In November 2009, 42,326 additional common shares were released and had a dilutive effect in 2009. The remaining 868,940 common shares may have a dilutive effect in
future periods based on the timing of the release of shares from the escrow account in accordance with the Quellos asset purchase agreement.         
   F-97   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    23. Segment Information       The Company s management directs BlackRock s operations as one business, the asset management business. As such, the Company
believes it operates in one business segment in accordance with ASC 280-10.      The following table illustrates investment
advisory, administration fees, securities lending revenue and performance fees,  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory, distribution fees and other revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.       
    The following table illustrates the Company s
total revenue and long-lived assets, including goodwill and property and equipment for the years ended December 2009, 2008 and 2007 by geographic region. These amounts are aggregated on a legal entity basis and do not necessarily reflect where the
customer is sourced or where the asset is physically located.       
    Americas primarily is comprised of the United States,
Canada, Brazil and Mexico, while Europe primarily is comprised of the United Kingdom and Asia-Pacific primarily is comprised of Japan, Australia and Hong Kong.         
   F-98   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    24. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)        

The first quarter of 2009 and fourth quarter of 2008 include the impact of a $22 million and a $38 million pre-tax expense related to restructuring
charges, respectively.          

The fourth quarter of 2009 includes incremental revenue and expenses related to the operations of BGI.          

The second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 include $15 million, $16 million and $152 million of pre-tax BGI transaction and integration costs,
respectively.          

The third quarter of 2009 includes a $45 million tax benefit related to local income tax law changes.            
   F-99   

Table of Contents  

BlackRock, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    25. Subsequent Events         London Lease        In January, 2010, the Company entered into an agreement with Mourant   Co Trustees Limited and Mourant Property Trustees Limited as Trustees of the Drapers Gardens Unit Trust, for the lease of approximately 292,418 square feet
of office and ancillary (including retail) space located at Drapers Gardens, 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London, EC2, United Kingdom.     The term of the lease will begin on February 17, 2010 (the  Effective Date ) and will continue for twenty five years, with the option to renew for an additional five year term. The lease provides for total annual base
rental payments of  13,541,595 (exclusive of value added tax and other lease charges, or approximately $21,666,552 based on an exchange rate of $1.60 per  1), payable quarterly in advance. The annual rent is subject to increase on
each fifth anniversary of the Effective Date to the then open market rent, with the rent payable from the first review date being subject to a minimum increase to  15,321,072 per annum (exclusive of value added tax, or approximately
$24,513,715, based on an exchange rate of $1.60 per  1) and a maximum increase to  16,875,291 per annum (exclusive of value added tax, or approximately $27,000,466 based on an exchange rate of $1.60 per  1). The lease
will include an initial rent free period for thirty six (36) months and twenty two (22) days following the Effective Date.        Helix Financial Group LLC        In January 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of substantially all
of the net assets of Helix Financial Group LLC, which provides advisory, valuation and analytics solutions to commercial real estate lenders and investors. The total consideration paid for the acquisition is not material to the Company s
consolidated financial statements.        Capital Exchanges        In January 2010, 600,000 common shares were exchanged for Series B Preferred Stock and all 11,203,442 Series D Preferred Stock outstanding at
December 31, 2009 were exchanged for Series B Preferred Stock.        Additional Subsequent Event Review
       In addition to the subsequent events included in the notes to the financial statements, the Company conducted a review
for additional subsequent events and determined that no additional subsequent events had occurred that would require accrual or additional disclosures.         
   F-100   

Table of Contents  

    EXHIBIT INDEX       Please note that the agreements included as exhibits to this Form 10-K are included to provide information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information
about BlackRock or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement that have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable
agreement and may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time.       

Table of Contents  

EXHIBIT INDEX (continued)          

Exhibit No.    
     
     Description     

10.4(5)  
     
  Amendment No. 2 to the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+   

10.5(5)  
     
  Amendment No. 3 to the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+   

10.6(5)  
     
  Amendment No. 4 to the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+   

10.7(5)  
     
  BlackRock, Inc. Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of January 1, 2005.+   

10.8(5)  
     
  BlackRock, Inc. Involuntary Deferred Compensation Plan.+   

10.9(2)  
     
  Form of Stock Option Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Stock Options under the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+   

10.10(2)  
     
  Form of Restricted Stock Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Restricted Stock under the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and Incentive
Plan.+   

10.11(11)  
     
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Restricted Stock Units under the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and Incentive
Plan.+   

10.12(11)  
     
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Restricted Stock Units for long-term incentive awards under the BlackRock, Inc. 1999
Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+   

10.13(2)  
     
  Form of Directors  Restricted Stock Unit Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Restricted Stock Units under the BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Stock Award and
Incentive Plan.+   

10.14(12)  
     
  BlackRock International, Ltd. Amended and Restated Long-Term Deferred Compensation Plan.+   

10.15(13)  
     
  Amendment No. 1 to the BlackRock International, Ltd. Amended and Restated Long-Term Deferred Compensation Plan.+   

10.16(2)  
     
  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2006, among BlackRock, Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. and the PNC Financial Service Group, Inc.   

10.17(14)  
     
  Agreement of Lease, dated May 3, 2000, between 40 East 52nd Street L.P. and Old BlackRock.   

10.18(15)  
     
  Agreement of Lease, dated September 4, 2001, between 40 East 52nd Street L.P. and Old BlackRock.   

10.19(16)  
     
  Share Surrender Agreement, dated October 10, 2002 (the  Share Surrender Agreement ), among Old BlackRock, PNC Asset Management, Inc. and The PNC Financial Services Group,
Inc.+   

10.20(1)  
     
  First Amendment, dated as of February 15, 2006, to the Share Surrender Agreement.+   

10.21(17)  
     
  Second Amendment, dated as of June 11, 2007, to the Share Surrender Agreement.+    

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Index (continued)           

Exhibit No.    
     
     Description     

10.22(3)  
     
  Third Amendment, dated as of February 27, 2009, to the Share Surrender Agreement.+   

10.23(18)  
     
  Amended and Restated, BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Annual Incentive Performance Plan. +   

10.24(19)  
     
  Amendment No. 1 to the BlackRock, Inc. Amended and Restated 1999 Annual Incentive Performance Plan.+   

10.25(20)  
     
  Agreement of Lease, dated July 29, 2004, between Park Avenue Plaza Company L.P. and Old BlackRock.   

10.26(20)  
     
  Letter Agreement, dated July 29, 2004, amending the Agreement of Lease between Park Avenue Plaza Company L.P. and Old BlackRock.   

10.27(21)  
     
  Transition Services Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2006, by and between Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. and BlackRock.   

10.28(22)  
     
  Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 26, 2007, by and among BlackRock, BAA Holdings, LLC and Quellos Holdings, LLC.   

10.29(23)  
     
  Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of August 22, 2007, by and among BlackRock, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender and issuing
lender, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Japanese Yen lender, a group of lenders, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as syndication
agent, and HSBC Bank USA, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Morgan Stanley Bank, as documentation agents.   

10.30(24)  
     
  Amended and Restated Global Distribution Agreement, dated as of July 16, 2008, between Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. and BlackRock.   

10.31(3)  
     
  Amended and Restated Implementation and Stockholder Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2009, between The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and BlackRock.   

10.32(3)  
     
  Second Amended and Restated Stockholder Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2009, among BlackRock, Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. and Merrill Lynch Group, Inc.   

10.33(25)  
     
  Amendment No. 1, dated as of June 11, 2009, to the Second Amended and Restated Stockholder Agreement by and among Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc., Merrill Lynch Group, Inc. and
BlackRock.   

10.34(25)  
     
  Amendment No. 1, dated as of June 11, 2009, to the Amended and Restated Implementation and Stockholder Agreement between The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and
BlackRock.   

10.35(26)  
     
  Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 11, 2009, between The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and BlackRock.   

10.35(27)  
     
  Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between BlackRock and Barclays Capital Inc., dated as of October 14, 2009.   

10.36(28)  
     
  Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 16, 2009, by and among Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays PLC (solely for the purposes of Section 6.16, Section 6.18 and
Section 6.24) and BlackRock.   

10.37(28)  
     
  Stockholder Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2009, by and among BlackRock, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays BR Holdings S. .r.l.   

10.38(28)  
     
  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2009, by and among BlackRock, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays BR Holdings S. .r.l.    

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Index (continued)           

Exhibit No.    
      
     Description     

10.39  
      
  Lease Agreement, dated as of February 17, 2010, among BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited and Mourant   Co Trustees Limited and Mourant Property Trustees Limited as
Trustees of the Drapers Gardens Unit Trust for the lease of Drapers Gardens, 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London, EC2, United Kingdom.   

12.1  
      
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.   

21.1  
      
  Subsidiaries of Registrant   

23.1  
      
  Deloitte   Touche LLP Consent   

31.1  
      
  Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.   

31.2  
      
  Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.   

32.1  
      
  Section 906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.   

101.INS  
      
  XBRL Instance Document   

101.SCH  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document   

101.CAL  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document   

101.DEF  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document   

101.LAB  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document   

101.PRE  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document        

(1)  
  Incorporated by reference to Old BlackRock s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 22, 2006.     

(2)  
  Incorporated by reference to BlackRock s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 5, 2006.     

(4)  
  Incorporated by reference to BlackRock s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 3, 2009.     

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Index (continued)           

(21)  
  Incorporated by reference to BlackRock s Registration Statement on Form S-4, as amended, originally filed on June 9, 2006.     

+  
  Denotes compensatory plans or arrangements     

<EX-10.39>
 2
 dex1039.htm
 LEASE AGREEMENT, DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 17, 2010

Lease Agreement, dated as of February 17, 2010 

Exhibit 10.39        DATED         17 February 2010       MOURANT   CO TRUSTEES LIMITED and        MOURANT PROPERTY TRUSTEES
LIMITED        as TRUSTEES OF THE DRAPERS GARDENS UNIT TRUST        BLACKROCK INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (UK) LIMITED        CONFORMED COPY        LEASE       of      Drapers Gardens, 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2       

LR1.   
     
   Date of lease   
     
  17 February 2010   

LR2.   
     
   Title number(s)   
     
   LR2.1   
     
   Landlord s title number(s)    

NGL862671 and NGL875562   

LR2.2   
     
   Other title numbers    

None   

LR3.   
     
   Parties to this lease   
     
   Landlord    

Mourant   Co Trustees Limited (a company incorporated in Jersey under registered number 18478) and Mourant Property Trustees Limited (a company incorporated in
Jersey under registered number 87600) as trustees of the Drapers Gardens Unit Trust both of 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 8PX   

Tenant    

Blackrock Investment Management (UK) Limited (company registration number 2020394) whose registered office is at 33 King William Street, London EC4R
9AS   

Other parties    

None   

LR4.   
     
   Property   
     
   In the case of a conflict between this clause and the remainder of this lease then, for the purposes of registration, this clause shall
prevail.    

As specified in clause 1 of this lease and defined in this lease as  the Premises .   

LR5.   
     
   Prescribed statements etc   
     
   LR5.1   
     
   Statements prescribed under rules 179 (dispositions in favour of a charity), 180 (dispositions by a charity) or 196 (leases under the Leasehold Reform, Housing and Urban
Development Act 1993) of the Land Registration Rules 2003.    

None   

LR5.2   
     
   This lease is made under, or by reference to, provisions of:    

Not applicable   

LR6.   
     
   Term for which the Property is leased   
     
  The term as specified in this lease at clause 3.   

LR7.   
     
   Premium   
     
  None   

LR8.   
     
   Prohibitions or restrictions on disposing of this lease   
     
  This lease contains a provision that prohibits or restricts dispositions.   

LR9.   
     
   Rights of acquisition etc   
     
   LR9.1   
     
   Tenant s contractual rights to renew this lease, to acquire the reversion or another lease of the Property, or to acquire an interest in other land    

As specified in clause 10   

LR9.2   
     
   Tenant s covenant to (or offer to) surrender this lease    

None   

LR9.3   
     
   Landlord s contractual rights to acquire this lease    

None   

LR10.   
     
   Restrictive covenants given in this lease by the Landlord in respect of land other than the Property   
     
  None   

LR11.   
     
   Easements   
     
   LR11.1   
     
   Easements granted by this lease for the benefit of the Property    

As specified in the first schedule of this lease   

LR11.2   
     
   Easements granted or reserved by this lease over the Property for the benefit of other property    

As specified in the second schedule of this lease   

LR12.   
     
   Estate rentcharge burdening the Property   
     
  None   

LR13.   
     
   Application for standard form of restriction   
     
  None   

LR14.   
     
   Declaration of trust where there is more than one person comprising the Tenant   
     
  None    

DATED  17 February 2010       PARTIES        

1  
      
  Landlord  
      
   MOURANT   CO TRUSTEES LIMITED  (a company incorporated in Jersey under registered number 18478) and  MOURANT PROPERTY TRUSTEES LIMITED  (a company
incorporated in Jersey under registered number 87600) as trustees of the Drapers Gardens Unit Trust both of 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 8PX   

2  
      
  Tenant  
      
   BLACKROCK INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (UK) LIMITED  (company registration number 2020394) whose registered office is at 33 King William Street, London EC4R
9AS   

1  
      
   DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION   

1.1  
      
  Unless the contrary intention appears, the following definitions apply:  

Acceptable Assignee   

means:   

(a)  
      
  an Entity which, immediately preceding the date of the application to assign, has and which on the date of the transfer to it of this Lease still
maintains:   

(i)  
      
  in respect of its senior unsecured unsubordinated and unguaranteed long term debt obligations a credit rating of A or better from Standard   Poor s Ratings Group, a
division of McGraw-Hill Inc or its successors ( Standard   Poor s  or   

(ii)  
      
  a long-term counterparty credit rating of A or better from Standard   Poor  or   

(iii)  
      
  credit ratings in respect of its senior unsecured unsubordinated and   

unguaranteed long term debt or in respect of its long term counterparty status from other major rating agencies acceptable to the Landlord acting reasonably equivalent to or better
than any one of the credit ratings described in (i) and (ii) above   

AND WHERE   

(iv)  
      
  at the date of the application to assign there is no other major rating agency whose equivalent rating in respect of the proposed assignee is lower than that agency s
equivalent of any of the credit ratings described in (i) and (ii) above   

provided that where any relevant agency rebases redesignates or otherwise changes the substance of or criteria for a relevant rating as referred to above (or the number
of grades or rankings above or below the relevant rating) or does any other act or thing so that the comparative creditworthiness strength or substance reflected in any of the ratings referred to above is changed then there shall be deemed
substituted for the ratings referred to above such new or revised ratings as will then reflect and be equivalent to the relative creditworthiness strength and substance implied by the above ratings at the date hereof to the intent and effect that
the substituted rating shall be equivalent mutatis mutandis to the current standards of creditworthiness strength and substance reflected in such current ratings; and   

(v)  
      
  at the date of the application to assign and the date immediately prior to completion of the proposed assignment the proposed assignee s credit rating has not been placed on
Credit Watch (other than a Credit Watch in relation to which the relevant agency confirms that the proposed assignee s rating will not be downgraded below the relevant rating as referred to above) nor has been accorded negative or developing
rating outlook or equivalent (other than with a view to a downgrade which would still meet the relevant rating as referred to above or to a possible up-grade) by Standard and Poor    

(b)  
      
  an Entity who does not adversely affect the market value of the Landlord s interest in the Premises by taking an assignment of this Lease when compared with the
position immediately prior to the proposed assignment (whether or not the Landlord has any intention at the time of selling or raising money on the security of its reversionary interest in the Premises) by a hypothetical tenant who has at that
point:   

(i)  
      
  in respect of its senior unsecured unsubordinated and unguaranteed long term debt obligations a credit rating of A from Standard   Poor  or   

(ii)  
      
  a long-term counterpart credit rating of A from Standard   Poor s.   

The market value of the Landlord s interest in the Premises shall be calculated having regard to the valuation guidelines set out in the RICS   

Appraisal and Valuation Manual current at the date of the said valuation or such alternative valuation practice for institutional investment office properties as is in
common use for office premises of similar Net Internal Area to the Premises in the City of London at the said date; or   

(c)  
      
  the Crown or a Secretary of State or other Minister of the Crown on behalf of the Crown in order to perform the functions of the Crown or any body corporate agency or
other body whose obligations are directly guaranteed to the Landlord by or in the name of the Crown;   

Adjoining Property   
      
  has the meaning set out in the Head Lease;   

Base Rate   
      
  the base rate for the time being of Barclays Bank PLC or some other London clearing bank nominated from time to time by the Landlord or in the event of such base rate
ceasing to exist such other reasonably comparable rate of interest as the Landlord shall from time to time reasonably determine;   

Building Services   
      
  the activity of managing the Building;   

Building Specification   
      
  the specification for the Premises annexed to this Lease the Appendix hereto and marked  Building Specification    

Cessation Date   
      
  the date when part or all of the Building Services cease to be provided by the Tenant Transferor and the Tenant Transferor Employees transfer pursuant to the Transfer
Regulations to an Incoming Service Provider;   

Copthall Avenue Head Lease   
      
  the lease of 10/12 Copthall Avenue, London dated 29 December 2006 made between (1) The Drapers Company and (2) the Landlord as varied by a deed of variation dated 7
January 2009 made between (1) The Drapers Company and (2) the Landlord, registered at the Land Registry with title number NGL875562;   

Decoration Year   
      
  the year ending 20 March 2012 and thereafter every subsequent third year of the Term;   

Default Uninsured Risk   
      
  a risk against which the Head Landlord is obliged to insure under the Head Lease but against which the Head Landlord has not insured otherwise than because of an act,
omission or default of the Landlord;   

Development   
      
  development as defined in section 55 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990;   

Entity   
      
  a body corporate or other business organisation or partnership or joint venture;   

EPC   
      
  the energy performance certificate (as defined in the Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007) from time to
time obtained by the Landlord for the Premises;   

Equivalent Services   
      
  services similar to part or all of the Building Services;   

Group Company   
      
  in relation to any company a company which is a member of the same group of companies within the meaning of Section 42 of the Landlord and Tenant Act
1954;   

Guarantor   
      
  any party who during the Term acts as guarantor and in the case of an individual includes his personal representatives;   

Head Landlord   
      
  The Master and Wardens and Brethren and Sisters of the Guild or Fraternity of The Blessed Mary The Virgin of The Mystery of Drapers of The City of London of the Drapers
Hall, Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2N 2DQ ( the Drapers Company ) or the person entitled for the time being to the reversion expectant (whether immediately or mediately) on the determination of the Head Lease;   

Head Lease   
      
  the lease of Drapers Gardens dated 21 March 2006 made between (1) The Drapers Company and (2) Drapers Gardens (2) B.V. as varied by a deed of variation dated
7 January 2009 made between (1) The Drapers Company and (2) the Landlord, registered at the Land Registry with title number NGL862671 and including (where the context allows) the Copthall Avenue Head Lease;   

H M Revenue   Customs   
      
  H M Revenue   Customs or any other person, authority, body or official which is from time to time responsible for the care, management or administration of Value
Added Tax;   

Incoming Service Provider   
      
  a supplier who provides Equivalent Services, including the Landlord (if it decides to bring the Equivalent Services back in-house) or a third party supplier after the
Cessation Date;   

Independent Person   
      
  any independent person appointed to resolve any dispute between any party or parties to this Lease and acting in accordance with the seventh schedule;   

Insurance Premium Tax   
      
  insurance premium tax as provided for in the Finance Act 1994 and include any other tax from time to time replacing it or of a similar fiscal nature;   

Insured Risks   
      
  (a)  
      
  those risks set out in the definition of Insured Risks in the Head Lease (whether or not the Head Lease exists); and   

(b)  
      
  a risk the Tenant has reasonably requested in writing to be insured   

which are not Market Uninsured Risks;   

Interest Rate   
      
  three percentage points (3%) per annum above Base Rate;   

Landlord   
      
  the first named party to this Lease and includes the person for the time being entitled to the reversion immediately expectant on the determination of the
Term;   

Landlord s Uninsured Damage Liability   
      
  (a)  
      
  in respect of any damage caused by an Uninsured Risk during the first 15 years of the Term the sum of  10,000,000 exclusive of VAT;   

(b)  
      
  in respect of any damage caused by an Uninsured Risk during the next five years of the Term the sum of  5,000,000 exclusive of VAT; and   

(c)  
      
  in respect of any damage caused by an Uninsured Risk in the last five years of the Term the sum of  1,000,000 exclusive of VAT (in the case only of (c) as
increased in line with the BCIS All-in Tender Price Index in respect of the period from the date of this Lease to the twentieth anniversary of the commencement of the Term);   

Latent Defects Insurance Policies   
      
  the two latent defects insurance policies dated 12 January 2010 effected in respect of the Premises, of which certified copies have been supplied to the
Tenant;   

Market Uninsured Risks   
      
  (a)  
      
  any risk, or some aspect of any risk, which (A) is a Specified Risk or (B) the Landlord or Tenant has reasonably requested in writing to be insured and which at the date
of request can be insured but which:   

(i)  
      
  is excluded from cover for the time being by reason of withdrawal of cover by the insurer and which is not otherwise available to be insured on the London insurance
market;   

(ii)  
      
  is withdrawn from cover by the Head Landlord or the Landlord on the grounds that cover cannot be placed on the London insurance market at reasonably commercial rates and on
reasonably commercial conditions; or   

(iii)  
      
  is excluded, or partially excluded, from cover in relevant circumstances by reason of the operation of policy conditions; but   

(b)  
      
  a risk which (A) is a Specified Risk or (B) the Landlord or Tenant has reasonably requested in writing to be insured does not become a Market Uninsured Risk (but shall
remain an Insured Risk) by reason only of:   

(i)  
      
  exclusion provisions in relation to a level of excess liability provided that such level of excess liability and exclusion provisions are on standard market terms;   

(ii)  
      
  rejection by the insurer of liability, or some part of it, due to vitiation by the Tenant any undertenant or other occupier of the Premises or anyone at the Premises with the
authority of any of them; or   

(iii)  
      
  infringement by the Head Landlord, the Landlord, the Tenant or any person at the Premises with the actual or purported authority of the Tenant of policy conditions for the
maintenance of cover;   

Net Internal Area   
      
  net internal area as defined by the Code of Measuring Practice published by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors from time to time;   

Permitted Part   
      
  part or parts of the Premises capable of independent occupation and sufficiently served by common parts and facilities and which will result in the remaining part of the
Premises also being capable of independent occupation and sufficiently served by common parts and facilities provided that at any one time any floor shall not be split into more than four units of occupation;   

Permitted User   
      
  has the meaning set out in the lease particulars of the Head Lease;   

Pipes   
      
  all existing and future pipes sewers drains ducts conduits gutters watercourses wires cables channels flues service corridors risers trunking and all other conducting
media and any ancillary apparatus;   

Planning Acts   
      
  the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 the Planning (Hazardous Substances) Act 1990 the Planning
(Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 the Planning and Compensation Act 1991 the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 and the Planning Act 2008 and any other town and country planning or related legislation and any re-enactments or amendments
thereof for the time being in force;   

Premises   
      
  the premises demised by the Head Lease (including the Copthall Avenue Head Lease) and registered at the Land Registry under title numbers NGL862671 and
NGL875562;   

Quarter Day   
      
  each of 25 March 24 June 29 September and 25 December;   

Rent   
      
  the rent payable pursuant to clause 3.1;   

Rent Commencement Date   

Review Dates   
      
                                      and every fifth
anniversary of such day during the Term and for the avoidance of doubt there shall be no rent review on the last day of the Term;   

Specified Risk   
      
  fire (including subterranean fire), strikers locked-out workers or persons taking part in labour disturbances, escape of water or oil from any tank apparatus pipe or
appliance, lightning, earthquake, explosion, aircraft (other than hostile aircraft) and other aerial devices or articles dropped therefrom, riot, civil commotion, malicious damage, storm or tempest, bursting or overflowing of water tanks apparatus
or pipes, flood from any cause (including tides, sewer back-up and dam failure), impact by road vehicles or any article falling therefrom or any animal, terrorist acts (meaning acts of persons acting on behalf of, or in connection with, any
organisation which carries out activities directed towards the overthrowing or influencing, by force or violence, of Her Majesty s government in the United Kingdom or any other government de jure or de facto), escape of water from any automatic
sprinkler installation (including damage by freezing), theft or attempted theft and resulting damage, subsidence or ground heave or landslip, accidental damage, accidental breakage or damage of fixed glass or fixed sanitary ware and release of
Legionella bacteria;   

Substantial Damage   
      
  damage to the Premises (including any alterations or improvements) in relation to which the cost of reinstatement will (in the reasonable opinion of the Landlord) exceed
the Landlord s Uninsured Damage Liability;   

Tenant   
      
  the second named party to this Lease and includes the Tenant s successors in title and assigns and in the case of an individual includes his personal
representatives;   

Tenant Transferor   
      
  the Tenant or any sub-contractor or other service provider engaged by the Tenant (directly or via its managing agent) to provide the Building Services;   

Tenant Transferor Employees   
      
  those persons employed wholly or mainly for the purposes of carrying out the Building Services by a Tenant Transferor;   

Term   
      
  the term of years granted by this Lease;   

Termination Date   
      
  the expiry or sooner determination of this Lease (unless the Tenant renews this Lease or enters into a Further Lease as defined in Clause 10);   

Termination Period   
      
  if this Lease terminates by the giving of notice to terminate, the period starting on the date such notice is served and ending on the Termination Date;   

this Lease   
      
  this Lease and any document which is made supplemental hereto or which is entered into pursuant to or in accordance with the terms hereof;   

Transfer Regulations   
      
  the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 as amended or replaced from time to time;   

Uninsured Risks   
      
  a Default Uninsured Risk or a Market Uninsured Risk;   

Unsecured Underletting   
      
  an underletting in relation to which the underlessor and underlessee have agreed to exclude the provisions of sections 24 to 28 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 and
before completion of the underletting or, if earlier, the underlessee s contractual obligation to enter into the underletting have duly carried out the requirements of Schedules 1 and 2 of the Regulatory Reform (Business Tenancies) (England and
Wales) Order 2003 to render this agreement valid;   

Value Added Tax   
      
  value added tax as provided for in the Value Added Tax Act 1994 and includes any other tax from time to time replacing it or of a similar fiscal nature;
and   

Working Day   
      
  any day (other than a Saturday or a Sunday) upon which clearing banks in the United Kingdom are open to the public for the transaction of
business.    

2  
      
   INTERPRETATION    

2.1  
      
  Unless the context otherwise requires:   

2.2  
      
  where two or more persons are included in the expression  the Tenant  and/or  the Guarantor  and/or  the Landlord  the covenants which are expressed
to be made by the Tenant and/or the Guarantor and/or the Landlord shall be deemed to be made by such persons jointly and severally;   

2.3  
      
  words importing persons shall include firms companies and corporations and vice versa;   

2.4  
      
  any covenant or regulation to be observed by any party hereto not to do any act or thing shall include an obligation not to cause permit or suffer such act or thing to be done;

2.5  
      
  any reference to a statute (whether specifically named or not) shall include any amendment or re-enactment of such statute for the time being in force and all instruments orders
notices regulations directions bye-laws permissions and plans for the time being made issued or given thereunder or deriving validity therefrom;   

2.6  
      
  the titles and headings appearing in this Lease are for reference only and shall not affect its construction;   

2.7  
      
  all agreements and obligations by any party contained in this Lease (whether or not expressed to be covenants) shall be deemed to be and shall be construed as covenants by such
party; and   

2.8  
      
  any reference to any right, entitlement or obligation of any person under the laws in relation to Value Added Tax, or any business carried on by any person for Value Added Tax
purposes, shall (where appropriate and unless the context otherwise requires) be construed, at any time when such person is treated as a member of a group for the purposes of section 43 of the Value Added Tax Act 1994, to include a reference to the
right, entitlement or obligation under such laws of, or the business carried on for Value Added Tax purposes by, the representative member of such group at such time (the term  representative member  to be construed in accordance with the
said section 43).   

3  
      
   DEMISE AND RENTS    

The Landlord HEREBY DEMISES unto the Tenant the Premises with full title guarantee TOGETHER WITH the rights and easements specified in the first schedule EXCEPT AND RESERVING the
rights and easements specified in the second schedule SUBJECT TO and with the benefit of all rights easements quasi-easements privileges covenants restrictions and stipulations of whatsoever nature affecting the Premises and contained or referred to
in the fifth schedule TO HOLD the Premises unto the Tenant for a term of 25 years from and including 17 February 2010 YIELDING AND PAYING unto the Landlord by way of rent during the Term:   

3.1  
      
  yearly and proportionately for any fraction of a year the sum of  13,541,595 (exclusive of Value Added Tax) and from and including each Review Date such Rent as shall
become payable under and in accordance with the provisions of the third schedule in each case to be paid to the Landlord (by banker s standing order if the Landlord so requires) by equal quarterly payments in advance on each Quarter Day in
every year the first payment being a proportionate sum in respect of the period from and including the Rent Commencement Date to the day immediately preceding the next Quarter Day to be made on the Rent Commencement Date;   

3.2  
      
  a due proportion to be fairly and properly determined by the Landlord of all sums (including, without limitation, Insurance Premium Tax and the cost of periodic valuations for
insurance purposes provided that such valuations do not occur more than once per year) payable to the Head Landlord by way of reimbursement of insurance premiums which the Landlord is required to pay as tenant under the Head Lease, to be paid to the
Landlord within five Working Days of written demand;   

3.3  
      
  a due proportion to be fairly and properly determined by the Landlord of the costs incurred by the Landlord pursuant to clause 6.1.1 and the insurance premiums incurred by the
Landlord pursuant to clauses 6.1.3, 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 within five Working Days of written demand;   

3.4  
      
  a sum equal to any amount which may be deducted or disallowed by the insurers in relation to any Insured Risk pursuant to the excess provision in the Landlord s or the Head
Landlord s insurance policy for the Premises upon settlement or adjudication of any claim to be paid to the Landlord on written demand (save where such deduction or disallowance results from any act or default of the Landlord or the Head
Landlord in breach of the Landlord s or the Head Landlord s insurance policy);    

3.5  
      
  the moneys referred to in clauses 4.2 and 4.29 to be paid to the Landlord as therein provided; and   

3.6  
      
  any other moneys which are by this Lease stated to be recoverable as rent in arrear to be paid to the Landlord when specified in this Lease or if not so specified on
written demand.   

4  
      
   TENANT S COVENANTS    

The Tenant HEREBY COVENANTS with the Landlord as follows:   

4.1  
      
   Rents    

To pay the rents reserved by this Lease at the times and in the manner aforesaid without any abatement set-off counterclaim or deduction whatsoever (save those that the
Tenant is required by law to make) and so that (subject to the Tenant having been provided with the Landlord s bank account details) the Landlord shall receive full value in cleared funds on the date when payment is due.   

4.2  
      
   Interest on arrears    

4.2.1  
      
  Without prejudice to any other right remedy or power herein contained or otherwise available to the Landlord if any of the rents reserved by this Lease (whether formally
demanded or not) or any other sum of money payable to the Landlord by the Tenant under this Lease shall not be paid so that the Landlord receives full value in cleared funds:   

4.2.1.1  
      
  in the case of the Rent and any sum representing Value Added Tax chargeable in respect of or by reference to it, on the date when payment is due;   

4.2.1.2  
      
  in the case of the rent payable pursuant to clauses 3.2 and 3.3, within three Working Days after the date when payment becomes due; or   

4.2.1.3  
      
  in the case of any other rents or sums within ten Working Days after the date when payment has become due   

to pay interest thereon at the Interest Rate from the date on which payment was due to the date of payment to the Landlord (both before and after any
judgment).   

4.2.2  
      
  Without prejudice to any other right, remedy or power contained in this Lease or otherwise available to the Landlord, if the Landlord shall (acting reasonably) decline

to accept any of the rents or other sums of money so as not to waive any existing breach of covenant (other than an immaterial breach), the Tenant shall pay interest on such rents
and other sums of money at the Interest Rate from and including the date when payment was due (or, where applicable, would have been due if demanded on the earliest date on which it could have been demanded) to the date when payment is accepted by
the Landlord.   

4.3  
      
   Outgoings    

4.3.1  
      
  To pay and discharge all existing and future rates levies taxes duties charges assessments impositions and outgoings whatsoever relating to the Premises or (where such outgoings
relate to the Premises and other premises) a due proportion thereof to be reasonably determined by the Landlord which now are or may at any time during the Term be payable in respect of the Premises whether by the owner or the occupier of them
(excluding any tax payable by the Landlord occasioned by the grant of this Lease, the receipt by the Landlord of the rents reserved by this Lease and any disposition of or dealing with the reversion to this Lease).   

4.3.2  
      
  In the last five years of the Term and if required by the Landlord to consult with the Landlord with regard to any outgoings as aforesaid and to have regard to any representations
made by the Landlord in respect of any assessments related thereto or appealing or contesting the same or withdrawing any contest or appeal or agreeing with the relevant authorities on any settlement compromise or conclusion in respect thereof (save
where the action of the Landlord would have an adverse impact on the Tenant s business).   

4.3.3  
      
  To pay all charges for electricity telephone water gas (if any) and other services consumed in the Premises and all sewerage and environmental charges relating to the Premises
including any standing charge, connection charge and meter installation costs and rents.   

4.4  
      
   Repairs    

4.4.1  
      
  To repair, keep and maintain in good and substantial repair and condition the Premises (damage by the Insured Risks and Uninsured Risks excepted save to the extent that payment of
the insurance moneys in relation to the Insured Risks shall be withheld in whole or in part by reason of any act or default of the Tenant any undertenant or other occupier of the Premises or anyone at the Premises with the authority of any of them)
and, as often as may be necessary, reinstate, rebuild or renew each part of them.    

4.4.2  
      
  To replace from time to time any of the Landlord s fixtures and fittings which become in need of replacement with new ones which are similar in type and quality.

4.4.3  
      
  To keep all parts of the Premises as are not built on in a good and clean condition, adequately surfaced and free from weeds, and any landscaped areas properly
cultivated and maintained and any trees preserved.   

4.5  
      
   Plant and machinery    

To keep all plant machinery and other equipment (not being moveable property of the Tenant or any undertenant) in the Premises properly maintained and in good working
order and condition and for that purpose to employ reputable contractors regularly to inspect, maintain and service the same.   

4.6  
      
   Decorations    

In every Decoration Year and also in the last three months of the Term howsoever determined (but not more than once in the last eighteen months of the Term and not in
the last year of the Term if the Tenant renews this Lease or enters into a Further Lease (as defined in clause 10) unless that is a Decoration Year) in a good and workmanlike manner to prepare and decorate (with two coats at least of good quality
paint) or otherwise treat as appropriate all parts of the Premises required to be so treated and as often as may be reasonably necessary to wash down all washable surfaces such decorations and treatment in the last year of the Term to be executed in
such colours and materials as the Landlord may reasonably require.   

4.7  
      
   Cleaning    

To keep the Premises in a clean and tidy condition.   

4.8  
      
   Yield up    

4.8.1  
      
  Immediately prior to the expiration or sooner determination of the Term (unless the Tenant renews this Lease or enters into a Further Lease as defined in clause 10) at
the cost of the Tenant:   

4.8.1.1  
      
  to replace any of the Landlord s fixtures and fittings which shall be missing or beyond economic repair with new ones of similar kind and quality;   

4.8.1.2  
      
  to remove from the Premises any moulding or sign of the name or business of the Tenant or occupiers and all tenant s fixtures fittings furniture and effects and to make good to
the reasonable satisfaction of the Landlord all damage caused by such removal;   

4.8.1.3  
      
  if required by the Landlord to remove all video data and sound communications conducting material installed in the Premises by or at the request of the Tenant or any undertenant;
and   

4.8.1.4  
      
  if and to the extent required by the Landlord to put or reinstate the Premises in or to a condition commensurate with the Building Specification which, for the avoidance of doubt
but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, shall include the removal of alterations and additions carried out by or on behalf of the Tenant whether before or after the commencement of the Term and the making good of all damage caused
by such removal in all cases to the Landlord s reasonable satisfaction.   

4.8.2  
      
  Notwithstanding clause 4.8.1 above, the Tenant shall be entitled to request the Landlord s advice in connection with which (if any) of the Tenant s alterations
it is required to reinstate which advice shall be given by the Landlord to the Tenant in a timely manner in order to facilitate the carrying out of the relevant works before the end of the Term.   

4.8.3  
      
  At the expiry or sooner determination of the Term (unless the Tenant renews this Lease or enters into a Further Lease as defined in clause 10) quietly to yield up the
Premises to the Landlord in good and substantial repair and condition in accordance with the covenants and other obligations on the part of the Tenant contained in this Lease.   

4.9  
      
   Rights of entry by Landlord and Head Landlord    

4.9.1  
      
  To permit the Landlord with all necessary materials and appliances at all reasonable times upon reasonable prior notice not being less than 48 hours (except in cases of
emergency) to enter and remain upon the Premises subject to the Landlord (and those authorised by the Landlord) complying with the conditions of entry set out in clause 4.9.3:   

4.9.1.1  
      
  to view and examine the state and condition of the Premises and to take schedules of the landlord s fixtures;   

4.9.1.2  
      
  to exercise any of the rights excepted and reserved by this Lease;   

4.9.1.3  
      
  for any other reasonable purpose properly connected with the management of or the interest of the Landlord in the Premises.   

4.9.2  
      
  To allow the Landlord and Head Landlord, and persons authorised by them, to enter the Premises to perform the tenant covenants and conditions in the Head Lease to
prevent forfeiture of the Head Lease subject to the Landlord (but not the Head Landlord to the extent such conditions are more onerous than those contained in the Head Lease) and those authorised by the Landlord complying with the conditions of
entry set out in clause 4.9.3.   

4.9.3  
      
  At all times when exercising any right of entry under this Lease (except pursuant to clause 7.1), the Landlord (but not the Head Landlord) and those authorised by the
Landlord shall:   

4.9.3.1  
      
  cause (and procure that all those exercising the right cause) as little inconvenience and damage and interference as reasonably possible to the Premises and all fittings and
equipment within the Premises;   

4.9.3.2  
      
  make good as soon as reasonably practicable any physical damage caused to the Premises and all fixtures and fittings to the reasonable satisfaction of the Tenant or other lawful
occupier;   

4.9.3.3  
      
  give reasonable written notice to the Tenant of not less than 48 hours (save in the case of emergency) of such entry; and   

4.9.3.4  
      
  comply with the Tenant s reasonable security requirements including without limitation any restrictions on access and entry to any areas designated as being confidential by the
Tenant which require the Landlord and any persons authorised by the Landlord to be accompanied by the Tenant or its representatives.   

4.10  
      
   To comply with notices    

4.10.1  
      
  The Landlord may give written notice (the   First Notice  ) to the Tenant specifying a breach of the obligations in this Lease and requiring the Tenant to
remedy the breach in question.   

4.10.2  
      
  If the Tenant shall fail within 20 Working Days of receipt of the First Notice (or as soon as reasonably possible after receipt in case of emergency) to commence and
then diligently to continue to comply with the First Notice the Landlord may serve a further notice (the   Warning Notice  ) on the Tenant specifying the breach    

referred to in the First Notice requiring the Tenant to remedy the breach and stating that the Landlord proposes to enter the Premises to exercise the rights contained in clause
4.10.3.   

4.10.3  
      
  If the Tenant shall fail within ten Working Days of receipt of the Warning Notice (or as soon as reasonably possible in case of emergency) to commence and then diligently to
continue to comply with the Warning Notice the Landlord may then without further notice enter the Premises and carry out or cause to be carried out all or any of the works referred to in the Warning Notice and all proper costs and expenses thereby
incurred shall be paid by the Tenant to the Landlord on demand and in default of payment shall be recoverable as rent in arrear   

4.11  
      
   Overloading floors and services and installation of wiring etc.    

4.11.1  
      
  Not to do anything which may subject the Premises to any strain beyond that which it is designed to bear with due margin for safety and to pay to the Landlord on demand all proper
costs reasonably incurred by the Landlord in obtaining the opinion of a qualified structural engineer as to whether the structure of the Premises is being or is about to be overloaded.   

4.11.2  
      
  To observe the weight limits prescribed for all lifts in the Premises.   

4.11.3  
      
  Not to use or permit or suffer to be used any electrical or electronic apparatus or equipment that does not comply with any relevant British standard or code of practice (or any
replacement thereof) relating to such apparatus or equipment and in addition not to install or use any electrical or electronic equipment or apparatus unless it has been fitted with an efficient suppresser so as to prevent any interference with
radio or television reception telecommunications transmission electrical or electronic apparatus or equipment or the operation of any other equipment in any Adjoining Property, where such apparatus or equipment is that normally used in office
buildings.   

4.12  
      
   Pipes    

Not to overload or obstruct any Pipes or discharge into any Pipes any oil or grease or any noxious or deleterious substance which may cause an obstruction or become a source of
danger or injure the Pipes or the drainage system of the Premises or any Adjoining Property.   

4.13  
      
   Dangerous materials and use of machinery    

Not to bring in any part of the Premises anything which is or is likely to become dangerous offensive combustible especially inflammable radioactive or explosive or which might
increase the risk of fire or explosion or which would cause or be likely to cause nuisance annoyance disturbance or damage to the Landlord or any tenant owner or occupier of any Adjoining Property PROVIDED THAT this clause shall not prevent the use
of goods and machinery utilised in connection with a modern office building and the activities carried on thereat or (in relation to any area designated for car parking) items usually found in car parks.   

4.14  
      
   User    

4.14.1  
      
  Not to use or occupy the Premises for any purpose except for the Permitted User.   

4.14.2  
      
  Not to use the Premises or any part thereof for any auction or public or political meeting public exhibition or show or for public entertainment or for gaming or playing
amusement machines or for gambling or as a sex shop or as a club or for the business of a turf accountancy estate agency undertaker travel agency staff or employment agency or Government Department where services are provided principally to visiting
members of the public without appointment.   

4.14.3  
      
  Not to use the Premises or any part thereof for any dangerous noisy noxious or offensive trade business or occupation whatsoever nor for any illegal or immoral purpose nor for
residential or sleeping purposes save for any sleeping pods or bedrooms ancillary to the Permitted User and which do not constitute a private residence or an hotel.   

4.14.4  
      
  Not to use the Premises for any purpose which is a nuisance or causes damage to the Head Landlord or to owners or occupiers of any Adjoining Property or which involves any
substance which may be harmful, polluting or contaminating.   

4.14.5  
      
  Not to leave the Premises continuously unoccupied for more than thirty days without providing such caretaking and security arrangements as are reasonable in the circumstances in
order to protect the Premises and their contents and to deal with any emergency.   

4.14.6  
      
  To provide the Landlord with a set of keys to the Premises to enable the Landlord or its agents and others authorised by the Landlord to enter the Premises in cases of emergency
in accordance with the provisions of this Lease.    

4.15  
      
   Alterations signs and visual amenity    

4.15.1  
      
  Not to:   

4.15.1.1  
      
  demolish the Premises; or   

4.15.1.2  
      
  erect any new building or buildings on the Premises; or   

4.15.1.3  
      
  merge or combine the Premises with any adjoining or neighbouring premises; or   

4.15.1.4  
      
  make any alterations which materially increase or diminish the lettable floor area of the Premises (but (subject to clause 4.15.1.5) only to the extent that this is
prohibited by the Head Landlord); or   

4.15.1.5  
      
  make any alterations which would reduce the Net Internal Area of the Office Premises (as those terms are defined in the Head Lease) below 255,861 square feet or increase
the Net Internal Area of the Office Premises above 282,794 square feet PROVIDED THAT notwithstanding the foregoing (and subject to the provisions of the Head Lease and clause 4.15.2) the Tenant may make alterations which would reduce the Net
Internal Area of the Office Premises by 14,734 square feet or increase the Net Internal Area of the Office Premises by 12,199 square feet from the Net Internal Area of the Office Premises as at the date of this Lease;   

4.15.1.6  
      
  make any alterations or additions to the Premises which would render the Premises unfit for letting as high class offices and retail units.   

4.15.2  
      
  Not without the consent of the Landlord (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and the consent of the Head Landlord:   

4.15.2.1  
      
  to make any external alterations to the Premises other than those expressly permitted in clause 4.15.3 but including (without limitation) alterations to the shop front
or fascia of any Retail Unit (as that term is defined in the Head Lease); or   

4.15.2.2  
      
  to make any structural alterations to the Premises other than   

(a)  
      
  those expressly prohibited in clause 4.15.1 or   

(b)  
      
  those expressly permitted in clause 4.15.3.    

4.15.3  
      
  Notwithstanding (but subject always to) clauses 4.15.1 and 4.15.2 the Tenant may without the consent of the Landlord:   

4.15.3.1  
      
  make minor structural alterations which do not affect the structural integrity of the Premises;   

4.15.3.2  
      
  make minor external alterations; and   

4.15.3.3  
      
  make internal non-structural alterations (including the erection and removal of demountable partitioning).   

4.15.4  
      
  Within ten Working Days following completion of any alterations or additions carried out pursuant to clauses 4.15.2 and 4.15.3 (together the  Alterations ) the
Tenant shall (i) supply to the Landlord a set of as-built drawings and specifications showing the Alterations as actually carried out together with appropriate structural calculations (if applicable) and (ii) make available for inspection by the
Landlord a copy of the health and safety file kept pursuant to the Construction (Design Management) Regulations 2007 and any subsequent legislation of a similar nature.   

4.15.5  
      
  Not without obtaining the prior written consent of the Landlord and the Head Landlord in accordance with the terms of the Head Lease, such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed, to erect any sign notice or advertisement which is visible from outside the Premises subject to the proviso contained in clause 4.11 of the Headlease.   

4.15.6  
      
  Promptly to make good all damage caused to any parts of the Premises or any Adjoining Property in the carrying out of any alterations or additions.   

4.15.7  
      
  So far as practicable and so long as it is economically viable in carrying out any alterations to use materials from sustainable sources and to have due regard to the
impact of such alterations upon the EPC rating for the Premises.   

4.16  
      
   Works carried out to the Premises    

Without prejudice to the provisions of clause 4.15 or to any covenants and conditions which the Landlord may lawfully require or impose in giving consent for alterations
or additions to the Premises, pursuant to the terms of this Lease the Tenant shall carry out any alterations additions repairs replacements or other works to or in respect of the Premises in a good and workmanlike manner without using materials
which are known or suspected to be deleterious and in accordance with the reasonable requirements of the Landlord notified in writing to the Tenant when giving consent.    

4.17  
      
   Alienation    

4.17.1  
      
  Not to assign or charge any part or parts (as distinct from the whole) of the Premises and not to agree so to do.   

4.17.2  
      
  Not to part with possession of or share the occupation of the whole or any part or parts of the Premises or agree so to do save in relation to an assignment of the whole of the
Premises or permit any person to occupy the same save by way of an assignment of whole or underlease of the whole of the Premises or a Permitted Part in accordance with the provisions of this clause PROVIDED THAT nothing contained in this clause
shall prevent the Tenant from sharing occupation of the whole or any part or parts of the Premises with an Entity which is a Group Company of the Tenant so long as such occupation shall not create the relationship of landlord and tenant between the
Tenant and the Group Company and notice of the sharing of occupation and the name of the Group Company is given to the Landlord before the sharing begins and the sharing immediately comes to an end whenever the relevant Group Company ceases to be a
Group Company of the Tenant and notice of the ceasing of sharing occupation is given forthwith to the Landlord. For the avoidance of doubt, there shall be no limit on the number of Group Companies permitted to share occupation pursuant to this
clause and any such sharing shall count as one unit of occupation.   

4.17.3  
      
  Not to underlet the whole of the Premises or a Permitted Part otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this clause 4.17 and subject thereto to procure that any
underletting is on such terms (including length of term) as shall be in accordance with the principles of good estate management.   

4.17.4  
      
  Not to underlet the whole of the Premises otherwise than on the condition that if the Landlord shall reasonably so require, the Tenant shall obtain an acceptable guarantor for any
proposed undertenant and such guarantor shall execute and deliver to the Landlord a deed containing covenants by that guarantor (or, if more than one, joint and several covenants) with the Landlord, as a primary obligation, in the terms contained in
the fourth schedule (with any necessary changes).   

4.17.5  
      
  Not to underlet the whole of the Premises or a Permitted Part at a fine or a premium or at a rent less than the open market rental value of the Premises at the time of such
underlease or, where a Permitted Part is underlet, the open market rental value of the Permitted Part.    

4.17.6  
      
  Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions not to charge or underlet the whole of the Premises without the prior written consent of the Landlord such consent not to
be unreasonably withheld or delayed nor to assign the whole of the Premises otherwise than in strict compliance with clauses 4.17.16 to 4.17.19.   

4.17.7  
      
  Prior to any permitted underlease to procure that the undertenant enters into direct covenants with the Landlord and the Head Landlord as follows:   

4.17.7.1  
      
  an unqualified covenant by the undertenant that the undertenant shall not assign or charge (or agree so to do) any part or parts (as distinct from the whole) of the
Premises and shall not (save by way of an assignment of the whole) part with possession of or share the occupation of the whole or any part of the Premises or agree so to do or permit any person to occupy the same save that:   

(a)  
      
  where the Tenant has underlet the whole of the Premises, the undertenant may further underlet the Premises on the same terms mutatis mutandis as this clause 4.17 (as applicable to
an underletting of the Premises) but provided that there shall be no more than five further underleases of the same part of the Premises granted out of any such underlease of the whole of the Premises;   

(b)  
      
  where the undertenant has underlet a Permitted Part of the Premises, the undertenant may further underlet the Permitted Part on the same terms mutatis mutandis as this clause 4.17
(as applicable to an underletting of a Permitted Part) but provided that there shall be no more than four further underleases of the same part of the Premises granted out of any such underlease of the Permitted Part; and   

(c)  
      
  the undertenant may share occupation with Group Companies provided that no relationship of landlord and tenant is thereby created, with any such group sharing counting as one unit
of occupation and the undertenant observing the provisions of clause 4.17.2 (mutatis mutandis);   

4.17.7.2  
      
  a covenant by the undertenant that the undertenant shall not assign (or unconditionally agree to assign) the whole of the Premises without obtaining the prior written
consent of the Landlord such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed; and   

4.17.7.3  
      
  a covenant by the undertenant to perform and observe all the tenant s covenants and the other provisions contained in:   

(a)  
      
  this Lease so far as they relate to the premises underlet (other than the payment of the rents); and   

(b)  
      
  the permitted underlease.   

4.17.8  
      
  Every permitted underlease shall contain:   

4.17.8.1  
      
  provisions for the review of the rent thereby reserved (which the Tenant hereby covenants to operate and enforce) on an upwards only basis at intervals of not less than
five years (which for the avoidance of doubt need not be coincidental with the rent reviews under this Lease) in accordance with the provisions set out in the third schedule hereto mutatis mutandis and with references to  Assumed Premises 
being deemed to be references to premises demised by the permitted underlease;   

4.17.8.2  
      
  a covenant by the undertenant (which the Tenant hereby covenants to enforce) prohibiting the undertenant from doing or suffering any act or thing in relation to the
premises underlet in breach of the provisions of this Lease insofar as these provisions relate to the premises underlet;   

4.17.8.3  
      
  a condition for re-entry on breach of any covenant by the undertenant;   

4.17.8.4  
      
  (subject to the provisions of clause 4.17.6) the same provisions (mutatis mutandis) as are set out in clauses 4.17.16 to 4.17.19 but so that the underlease shall not be
required to include any provision equivalent to clauses 4.17.16.1 and 4.17.16.2;    

4.17.8.5  
      
  provisions requiring the landlord thereunder to insure for the loss of the principal rent payable thereunder for a period of not less than four years and limiting any cesser of rent
following damage or destruction by any insured risk to a period no greater than the period for loss of rent insurance; and   

4.17.8.6  
      
  covenants by the undertenant equivalent to those on the part of the Tenant contained in clauses 6.10.7 to 6.10.9.   

4.17.9  

Not to underlet a Permitted Part constituting less than a whole floor of the Premises or including any part of the Premises which is not a whole floor except by way of Unsecured
Underletting.   

4.17.10  

Not to underlet any floor of the Premises so as to sub-divide it into more than four units of accommodation.   

4.17.11  

To take reasonable steps to enforce the performance and observance by every such undertenant of the covenants provisions and conditions of the underlease and not knowingly at any
time to waive any breach of the same.   

4.17.12  

To procure that the principal rent is reviewed under any permitted underlease in accordance with the terms thereof but not to agree any reviewed rent with the undertenant without
the prior written consent of the Landlord (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).   

4.17.13  

Not to vary the terms or accept any surrender of any permitted underlease (or agree so to do) without the prior written consent of the Landlord (such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed).   

4.17.14  

To procure that the rents reserved by any permitted underlease shall be payable on the usual quarter days and shall not be commuted or payable more than one quarter in advance and
not to permit the reduction of any rents reserved by any such underlease.   

4.17.15  

To provide the Landlord with a certified copy of any notice given under the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 to the Tenant by an undertenant as soon as reasonably practicable following
receipt of the same by the Tenant.   

4.17.16  

For the purposes of section 19(1A) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927 it is agreed that the Landlord may withhold consent to an assignment of the whole of the Premises
if:   

4.17.16.1  
      
  the proposed assignee is not an Acceptable Assignee; or    

4.17.16.2  
      
  the proposed assignee is an Entity which is a Group Company of the Tenant which either:   

(a)  
      
  has not continuously for a period of one year immediately preceding the date of the application to assign maintained and which on the date of the transfer to it of this Lease
maintains a credit rating referred to in paragraph (a) of the definition of  Acceptable Assignee  or   

(b)  
      
  would had the proposed assignee been the Tenant at any point during the period of 12 months prior to the application to assign have adversely affected the market value of the
Landlord s interest in the Premises in the circumstances referred to in paragraph (b) of the definition of  Acceptable Assignee  or   

4.17.16.3  
      
  the proposed assignee or any proposed guarantor for it is any person or Entity who has the right to claim sovereign or diplomatic immunity or exemption from liability
from the covenants on the part of the Tenant contained in this Lease; or   

4.17.16.4  
      
  the proposed assignee or any proposed guarantor for it is a corporation registered in or an individual resident in a jurisdiction which does not have in place procedures
for the recognition and enforcement by the court in that jurisdiction of a judgment obtained in the Courts of England and Wales so that such a judgment will not necessarily be enforced without any re-examination of the merits of the case;
or   

4.17.16.5  
      
  the proposed assignee or any proposed guarantor for it is any person or Entity in relation to whom any of the events mentioned in clauses 7.1.3 to 7.1.5 of this Lease
would have occurred if that person or Entity were the Tenant under this Lease; or   

4.17.16.6  
      
  the Rent due from the Tenant under this Lease remains unpaid; or   

4.17.16.7  
      
  there is a substantial outstanding breach of covenant on the part of the Tenant which relates to the repair of the Premises.    

4.17.17  
      
  For the purposes of section 19 (1A) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927 and section 16 of the Landlord and Tenant (Covenants) Act 1995 it is further agreed that any
consent of the Landlord to an assignment of the whole of the Premises may be subject to:   

4.17.17.1  
      
  a condition requiring that before the Tenant completes the assignment of this Lease the Tenant and any Guarantor jointly and severally execute and deliver to the Landlord a deed
which shall be prepared by the Landlord s solicitors containing covenants on the part of the Tenant (and the Guarantor if required) in the form of those contained in the sixth schedule (amended as necessary to reflect that the Tenant and the
Guarantor are entering into the authorised guarantee agreement obligations jointly and severally or otherwise as the Landlord may reasonably require);   

4.17.17.2  
      
  a condition that the assignment is completed and registered with the Landlord in accordance with clause 4.18 within three months of the date of the consent and that if it is not the
consent shall be void;   

4.17.17.3  
      
  a condition that before the Tenant completes the assignment of the Lease, if the Landlord acting reasonably determines it to be necessary, one or more guarantors acceptable to the
Landlord, acting reasonably, covenant by deed with the Landlord in the form of guarantee set out in the fourth schedule; and/or   

4.17.17.4  
      
  a condition that prior to any permitted assignment it is procured that the assignee enters into a direct covenant with the Landlord that with effect from the date of the assignment
until the first subsequent assignment which is not an excluded assignment (as the expression is defined in the Landlord and Tenant (Covenants) Act 1995) the proposed assignee will pay the rents hereby reserved and perform and observe the covenants
by the Tenant contained in this Lease.   

4.17.18  
      
  Without prejudice to the provisions of clauses 4.17.16 and 4.17.17 the Tenant shall not assign the whole of the Premises without the prior written consent of the
Landlord and except in relation to the circumstances mentioned in clause 4.17.16 and the conditions mentioned in clause 4.17.17 such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. The parties agree that in considering whether or not the
Landlord is reasonably withholding or delaying such consent due and proper regard shall be had to the provisions and effect of the Landlord and Tenant (Covenants) Act 1995.    

4.17.19  
      
  Clauses 4.17.16 and 4.17.17 shall operate without prejudice to the Landlord s right (acting reasonably and having regard to the other provisions of such clauses) to refuse
such consent on any other ground or grounds where such refusal would be proper and reasonable or to impose further conditions upon the grant of consent where such imposition would be proper and reasonable.   

4.17.20  
      
  If at any time any one or more provisions of this clause 4.17 is or becomes invalid or illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any law the validity legality and
enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be in any way affected or impaired thereby.   

4.17.21  
      
  To the extent (if any) necessary to make the foregoing provisions of this Lease effective (but not further or otherwise) section 144 of the Law of Property Act 1925 shall not
apply.   

4.18  
      
   Registration of dispositions    

Within 30 days of every assignment transfer assent underlease assignment of underlease mortgage charge or any other disposition whether mediate or immediate of or relating to the
Premises (however remote) to supply to the Landlord a copy certified by the Tenant s solicitors of the document evidencing or effecting such disposition and on each occasion to pay to the Landlord or its solicitors a reasonable registration
fee.   

4.19  
      
   Disclosure of information    

Whenever a party to this Lease shall reasonably request, but not more than once a year (save in the last year of the Term), to supply to the other party sufficient particulars of
all occupations and derivative and superior interests in the Premises however remote or inferior or superior. The Tenant shall in addition supply any necessary particulars of the rents and licence fees payable and any rent or licence fee review
determination thereunder and to the extent only that the Tenant already possesses the same such further or other information as the Landlord may reasonably and properly require in relation to all occupations and derivative interests in the Premises
from time to time and to supply certified copies of all documentation supplemental to or collateral with any underleases of the Premises including (without limitation) memoranda recording the rent payable following review or other determination
thereof but subject to the party making the request paying the reasonable costs of the other party of providing any information under this clause.   

4.20  
      
   Landlord s costs    

Within ten Working Days of demand, to pay to the Landlord and the Head Landlord all reasonable and proper costs fees charges disbursements and expenses properly incurred by them:

4.20.1  
      
  in relation to or in reasonable contemplation of the preparation and service of a notice under section 146 of the Law of Property Act 1925 and of any proceedings under section 146
or 147 of that Act (whether or not any right of re-entry or forfeiture has been waived by the Landlord or a notice served under section 146 is complied with by the Tenant or the Tenant is relieved under the provisions of that Act and even though
forfeiture may be avoided otherwise than by relief granted by the Court);   

4.20.2  
      
  in relation to or in reasonable contemplation of the preparation and service of all proper notices and schedules relating to wants of repair served during the Term or no later than
six months following the end of the Term (but relating only to such wants of repair for which the Tenant is liable);   

4.20.3  
      
  in connection with the proper and reasonable recovery or attempted recovery of arrears of rent or other sums overdue from the Tenant or in procuring the remedying of the breach of
any covenant by the Tenant; and   

4.20.4  
      
  in relation to any application for consent required or made necessary by this Lease (such costs to include reasonable management and monitoring fees and expenses where properly
incurred) whether or not the same is granted (except in cases where the Landlord is obliged not to unreasonably withhold its consent and the withholding of its consent is unreasonable or where any conditions to consent are not properly imposed) or
whether the application be withdrawn,   

and in relation to any payment due pursuant to clauses 4.20.1 to 4.20.3, on an indemnity basis.   

4.21  
      
   Statutory requirements    

4.21.1  
      
  At the Tenant s own expense to comply in all respects with every statute now in force or which may after the date of this Lease be in force and any other obligation imposed by
law and all regulations laws or directives made or issued by or with the authority of The European Commission and/or The Council of Ministers relating to the Premises or their use, including (without prejudice to the generality of
this   

clause) the Offices, Shops and Railway Premises Act 1963, the Fire Precautions Act 1971, the Defective Premises Act 1972, the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 and the
Environmental Protection Act 1990 insofar as such statute or obligation relates to the Premises and compliance with such statute or other obligation is not required due to the default of the Landlord in performing any obligation in this
Lease.   

4.21.2  
      
  To execute all works and provide and maintain all arrangements on or in respect of the Premises or their use which are required by any statute now in force or which may after the
date of this Lease be in force or by any government department, local, public or other competent authority or court of competent jurisdiction acting under or in pursuance of any statute, whether any of the same are required to be carried out by the
landlord, tenant or occupier, and shall indemnify the Landlord against all costs, charges, fees and expenses of, or incidental to, the execution of any works or the provision or maintenance of any arrangements so required provided that such
obligation does not arise due to the default of the Landlord in performing any obligation in this Lease.   

4.21.3  
      
  Not to do or omit to be done in or near the Premises any act or thing by reason of which the Landlord or any owner or occupier of any Adjoining Property may under any statute or
non-statutory regulations become liable to pay any penalty damages compensation costs charges or expenses.   

4.22  
      
   Planning Acts    

4.22.1  
      
  To comply with the provisions and requirements of the Planning Acts and to indemnify and keep the Landlord indemnified against all actions proceedings demands costs expenses and
liability in respect of any contravention.   

4.22.2  
      
  Not to apply for planning permission or for other consents required under the Planning Acts in respect of the Premises or for certificates or determinations as to lawful use without
the prior written consent of the Landlord, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed where under the relevant provisions of this Lease the consent of the Landlord is not required or cannot be unreasonably withheld in respect of the
matters the subject of the application provided that no such consent is required in relation to any alterations which the Tenant is permitted to make without the consent of the Landlord.   

4.22.3  
      
  At the Tenant s own expense to obtain and, if appropriate, renew any planning permission and any other consent and serve all necessary notices required for the carrying out by
the Tenant of any operations or the commencement or continuance of any use of the Premises.    

4.22.4  
      
  To pay and satisfy any charge or levy that may hereafter be lawfully imposed under the Planning Acts in respect of any Development by the Tenant on or at the Premises.

4.22.5  
      
  The Tenant shall not implement any planning permission or consent required under the Planning Acts before it has been produced to and approved in writing by the Landlord
such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.   

4.22.6  
      
  Unless the Landlord shall otherwise direct to carry out and complete before the expiration or sooner determination of the Term:   

4.22.6.1  
      
  any works stipulated to be carried out to the Premises as a condition of any planning permission granted during the Term and implemented by the Tenant or any undertenant;
and   

4.22.6.2  
      
  any Development begun upon the Premises by the Tenant or any undertenant in respect of which the Landlord shall or may be or become liable for any charge or levy under the Planning
Acts.   

4.22.7  
      
  If and when called upon so to do to produce to the Landlord as soon as reasonably practicable following demand and at the Landlord s cost all plans documents and
other evidence as the Landlord may reasonably require in order to satisfy itself that the provisions of this clause have been complied with in all respects.   

4.23  
      
   Statutory notices    

Within 14 days after receipt of the same (or sooner if requisite having regard to the time limits stated therein) to produce to the Landlord a copy and any further
particulars reasonably required by the Landlord of any notice or order or proposal given to the Tenant and relevant to the Premises or the occupiers thereof and without delay to take all necessary steps to comply with the notice or order so far as
the same is the responsibility of the Tenant and at the request and cost of the Landlord to make or join with the Landlord in making such objection or representation against or in respect of any such notice order or proposal as the Landlord shall
deem expedient (acting reasonably) unless the Tenant reasonably considers that to do so would materially prejudice its commercial interests.    

4.24  
      
   Defective premises    

Immediately upon becoming aware of the same, to give written notice to the Landlord of any defect in the Premises which might give rise to an obligation on the Landlord to do or
refrain from doing any act or thing so as to comply with the duty of care imposed on the Landlord pursuant to the Defective Premises Act 1972 and at all times to display and maintain all notices which the Landlord may from time to time reasonably
require in order to satisfy such provisions to be displayed in relation thereto.   

4.25  
      
   Fire precautions and equipment etc.    

To comply with the requirements of the insurers of the Premises in relation to fire precautions affecting the Premises.   

4.26  
      
   Encroachments and easements    

4.26.1  
      
  Save as part of any alterations to which the Landlord has given its consent in accordance with an application made by the Tenant pursuant to clause 4.15 not without the consent of
the Landlord (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to stop up or obstruct (other than to an immaterial extent in the context of the Premises taken as a whole) any of the windows or lights belonging to the Premises nor to
knowingly permit any new window opening doorway passage Pipes or other encroachment or easement to be made or acquired into upon or over the Premises or any part thereof and in case any person shall attempt to make or acquire any encroachment or
easement to give written notice thereof to the Landlord immediately the same shall come to the notice of the Tenant and at the reasonable request and cost of the Landlord to adopt such means as may be reasonably required by the Landlord for
preventing any such encroachment or the acquisition of any such easement.   

4.26.2  
      
  Not to give to any person any acknowledgement that the Tenant enjoys the access of light to any of the windows or openings of the Premises by the consent of such person nor to pay
any sum of money or enter into any agreement with any person for the purpose of inducing or binding such person to abstain from obstructing the access of light to any of the windows or openings and in the event of any person doing or threatening to
do anything which obstructs the access of light to any of the windows or openings forthwith to notify the Landlord of the same after becoming aware of the same.   

4.27  
      
   Reletting and sales    

To permit all persons with the written authority of the Landlord to view the Premises at all reasonable hours in the daytime upon prior appointment having been made provided that
any such entry permitted by this clause 4.27 shall be on the terms and in accordance with the conditions of entry set out in clause 4.9.3.   

4.28  
      
   Indemnity    

To keep the Landlord fully indemnified from and against all reasonably foreseeable actions proceedings claims demands losses costs expenses damages and liability arising from any
breach of the Tenant s covenants or other obligations contained in this Lease provided that the Landlord shall notify the Tenant of any such liability and take all reasonable steps to mitigate such liability having regard to the nature of the
breach.   

4.29  
      
   Value Added Tax    

4.29.1  
      
  Where, pursuant to the terms of this Lease, the Landlord or any other person (for the purposes of this clause 4.29.1, the   Supplier  ) makes or is deemed to make a
supply to the Tenant for Value Added Tax purposes and Value Added Tax is or becomes chargeable on such supply, the Tenant shall (a) if any other consideration given for such supply consists wholly of money, at the same time as paying such other
consideration; or (b) if such other consideration does not consist wholly of money, on demand, pay to the Supplier (in addition to any other consideration for such supply) a sum equal to the amount of such Value Added Tax and the Supplier shall
provide the Tenant with a Value Added Tax invoice in respect of such supply in accordance with the requirements of the Value Added Tax Act 1994.   

4.29.2  
      
  Where, pursuant to the terms of this Lease, the Tenant is required to reimburse the Landlord or any other person (for the purposes of this clause 4.29.2, the
  Recipient  ) for any cost, fee, charge, disbursement or expense (or any proportion of it), the Tenant shall also reimburse the Recipient for any part of such cost, fee, charge, disbursement or expense (or proportion of it) which
represents Value Added Tax, save to the extent that the Recipient is entitled to credit or repayment in respect of such Value Added Tax from H M Revenue   Customs.   

4.29.3  
      
  For the avoidance of doubt the Landlord shall not be under a duty to exercise or not to exercise any option or right conferred on the Landlord by the legislation relating to Value
Added Tax (including any regulations made thereunder) so as to reduce or avoid any liability to Value Added Tax referred to in clauses 4.29.1 or 4.29.2 above or so as to entitle or enable the Landlord to so obtain a credit for such Value Added Tax
as referred to in clause 4.29.2 above.   

4.29.4  
      
  Not to use the whole or any part of the Premises in such a way or otherwise act in a manner as would cause the option to tax made by the Landlord in respect of the Premises to be
disapplied.   

4.29.5  
      
  To provide to the Landlord as soon as may reasonably be practicable such information and supporting evidence as the Landlord may reasonably require to determine whether supplies of
goods and services to the Tenant under this Lease are taxable or exempt for the purposes of Value Added Tax, and to notify the Landlord, as and when they occur, of changes which render that information incorrect or likely to be
incorrect.   

4.30  
      
   Covenants affecting reversion    

To perform and observe the provisions of the deeds and documents referred to in the fifth schedule hereto so far as the same are still
subsisting and capable of taking effect and relate to or affect the Premises (other than the Head Lease and the     Copthall Avenue Head Lease).

4.31  
      
   To comply with Headlease and Management Agreement    

4.31.1  
      
  Save to the extent that the Landlord covenants to perform the same pursuant to clause 5.5 not to do or permit or omit to be done anything which would constitute a breach of
covenants conditions exceptions and reservations contained in the Head Lease as at the date of this Lease.   

4.31.2  
      
  To provide to the Landlord all relevant information requested by the Landlord necessary to enable the Landlord to comply with its obligations pursuant to the Head
Lease.   

4.31.3  
      
  To comply with the obligations on the part of the Landlord contained in the management agreement dated 21 March 2006 between the Head Landlord (1) and the Landlord (2).

4.32  
      
   EPC    

So far as practicable and economically viable to have due regard to the impact of any activity carried on at the Premises upon the EPC rating for the Premises (subject to clause
4.15.7).   

4.33  
      
   Land Registry Matters    

4.33.1  
      
  To apply to the Land Registry on Form AP1 within the period of 20 Working Days beginning on the date of the Lease for registration of the Lease and when the Land Registry confirms
that the registration applications have been completed to supply the Landlord with satisfactory evidence of this.   

4.33.2  
      
  To submit to the Land Registry together with its own application for registration of the Lease against the title numbers referred to in the fifth schedule and for registration of
easements any application for EID designation required by the Landlord (subject to the Landlord providing to the Tenant completed Forms EX1 and EX1A together with a cheque for the requisite fee) provided that if the Tenant s applications are
not both submitted at the same time then the Landlord s application for EID designation shall be submitted together with the first application to be submitted.   

4.33.3  
      
  At the end or sooner determination of the Term to apply to the Land Registry for the cancellation of any entry or notice of or relating to this Lease on the Landlord s title
and to provide all reasonable assistance required by the Landlord to remove such entries and requesting closure of the title under which this Lease is registered.   

5  
      
   LANDLORD S COVENANTS    

THE Landlord COVENANTS (but so that the covenant on the part of the Landlord is a covenant to do or not to do that which is covenanted for so long only as the Landlord remains
entitled to the reversion immediately expectant on the determination of the Term) with the Tenant as follows:   

5.1  
      
  that the Tenant paying the rents reserved by this Lease and performing and observing the covenants on the part of the Tenant contained in this Lease may peaceably hold and enjoy the
Premises during the Term without any interruption by the Landlord or any person lawfully claiming through under or in trust for it or by any person with title paramount;   

5.2  
      
  to use best endeavours to enforce the obligations of the Head Landlord in the Head Lease;   

5.3  
      
  at the cost of the Tenant to use best endeavours to pursue and obtain consents and approvals required under the Head Lease following application made by the Tenant;   

5.4  
      
  wherever this Lease provides that any approval or consent or licence of the Landlord is not to be unreasonably withheld, not to unreasonably withhold or delay such approval, consent
or licence;   

5.5  
      
  to observe and perform the conditions and covenants imposed on the tenant in clauses 3.1, 3.2, 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.14, 4.17, 4.23 (to the extent that such Liabilities arise as a
result of the act or default of the Landlord), 4.24 (in relation to any breach by the Landlord of its obligations under this clause), 4.27 and 6 of the Head Lease but so that the Landlord shall have no liability to the Tenant for any breach of this
obligation where such breach arises by reason of a breach by the Tenant of the covenants and conditions to be observed and performed by the Tenant under this Lease;   

5.6  
      
  at the request and cost of the Tenant to use all reasonable endeavours to enforce the obligations on the part of the Head Landlord contained in the management agreement referred to
in clause 4.31.3 and those of the parties to the deeds referred to in paragraph 2 of the fifth schedule;   

5.7  
      
  as soon as reasonably practicable to supply to the Tenant a copy of any notice served on the Landlord in relation to the Premises (including any notice served by the Head Landlord);

5.8  
      
  as soon as reasonably practicable following written request to provide to the Tenant such contact details in relation to the Head Landlord as are then held by the Landlord;
and   

5.9  
      
  not without the consent of the Tenant (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to give approval to the Head Landlord s sign pursuant to paragraph 5 of part 2
of the First Schedule to the Head Lease.   

6  
      
   LANDLORD S INSURANCE    

6.1  
      
   Landlord s insurance    

6.1.1  
      
  The Landlord shall enforce the covenants of the Head Landlord in the Head Lease relating to insurance of the Premises and shall request and use best endeavours to procure that the
Head Landlord insures against such other risks as reasonably requested by the Tenant (subject to such exclusions and limitations as may be imposed by the insurers).   

6.1.2  
      
  The Landlord covenants to allow to the Tenant the full benefit of the covenants in the Head Lease given by the Head Landlord in relation to insurance of the Premises and subject to
the terms of this Lease to comply with its obligations as tenant in clause 6.2 of the Head Lease in so far as and to the extent that such obligations are not made the responsibility of the Tenant pursuant to this Lease.   

6.1.3  
      
  If the Head Landlord ceases to be obliged for any reason to insure the Premises, the Landlord shall insure the Premises on the same terms as the Head Landlord was required to do
under the terms of the Head Lease whether or not the Head Lease still subsists and shall insure against such other risks as reasonably requested by the Tenant (subject to the same being insurable and subject to such exclusions and limitations as may
be imposed by the insurers).   

6.1.4  
      
  The Landlord shall insure against loss of rents (including any Value Added Tax payable on the rents and taking into account the Landlord s or the Landlord s
surveyor s reasonable estimate of any likely increase in the rents in accordance with the third schedule) due to loss or damage by the Insured Risks for such period as the Landlord or the Tenant may reasonably require (being not less than five
nor more than seven years) and in the event of any disagreement as to the length of the loss of rent insurance period, the longer period shall prevail.   

6.1.5  
      
  The Landlord shall insure against third party and employer s liability and such other insurances as the Landlord (acting reasonably) may require in such amount as the Landlord
or the Landlord s surveyor reasonably determines as appropriate for a high class building in the City of London.   

6.1.6  
      
  Following damage or destruction to the Premises by an Insured Risk (which is not, while the Head Landlord is obliged to insure the Premises, a Default Uninsured Risk), the Landlord
shall (subject to the Tenant complying with its obligations pursuant to clause 6.3.9) use reasonable endeavours to obtain all planning and   

other consents necessary to rebuild and reinstate the Premises as soon as reasonably practicable and when the consents have been obtained and subject to receiving the insurance
proceeds (which the Landlord shall use best endeavours to obtain and making up any deficiency out of its own monies) the Landlord shall proceed to rebuild and reinstate the Premises as soon as reasonably practicable substantially as they were before
the destruction or damage in modern form if appropriate but not necessarily identical in layout and shall in addition reinstate the accesses to the Premises if so destroyed or damaged and shall notify the Tenant as soon as is reasonably practicable
after such damage has occurred but in any event within twelve months of the date of such damage of its programme and proposals for such reinstatement and keep the Tenant reasonably informed of the progress of such reinstatement and use reasonable
endeavours to procure warranties in an industry standard form in favour of the Tenant from the contractor and professional team.   

6.2  
      
   Provision of information    

On reasonable written request, the Landlord, on receipt of the same from the Head Landlord, will provide the Tenant with a written summary and details of the Head Landlord s
insurance and a copy of the insurance policies together with evidence of the payment of the most recent premiums in respect of that insurance and the Landlord covenants to request and use best endeavours to obtain the same (and any other information
relating to the Head Landlord s obligations to insure under the Head Lease reasonably required by the Tenant) from the Head Landlord on reasonable written request from the Tenant and to provide the same to the Tenant on reasonable written
request if the Landlord insures.   

6.3  
      
   Tenant s obligations    

The Tenant is:   

6.3.1  
      
  if the Landlord or Head Landlord has expressly agreed to insure alterations and additions to the Premises to notify the Landlord of the reinstatement value of such alterations and
additions made by the Tenant or any undertenant excluding the value of tenant s and trade fixtures forming part of these alterations and improvements;   

6.3.2  
      
  save in relation to Default Uninsured Risks not to put in place insurance cover for the Premises against the Insured Risks;   

6.3.3  
      
  to maintain third party and employer s liability insurance in respect of the Tenant s use and occupation of the Premises;   

6.3.4  
      
  on reasonable request to provide to the Landlord written details of any policy or policies of insurance maintained by the Tenant under this clause 6.3 together with evidence for the
payment of the most recent premiums in respect of those insurance policies;   

6.3.5  
      
  if it receives any insurance moneys in respect of the Premises in respect of insurance placed in breach of clause 6.3.2 to notify the Landlord of the amount of such insurance moneys
it receives and to hold such insurance moneys upon trust for the Landlord and the Landlord covenants to apply such moneys to the reinstatement of the Premises in accordance with clause 6.1.6;   

6.3.6  
      
  to notify the Landlord immediately in writing of any damage to or destruction of the Premises by any of the Insured Risks of which the Tenant becomes aware;   

6.3.7  
      
  to notify the Landlord immediately in writing of any reason known to the Tenant why the Landlord s or Head Landlord s insurances in respect of the Premises may become void
or voidable;   

6.3.8  
      
  where reasonably required to do so by the Landlord to enable the Landlord to comply with its obligations in respect of reinstatement provided that a suspension pursuant to clause
6.4 applies to the whole of such vacation period (including any reasonable period during which the Tenant is in the course of vacating), to vacate the Premises (or a relevant part); and   

6.3.9  
      
  if the payment of any insurance monies is refused in whole or in part by reason of any act or default of the Tenant any undertenant or any other occupier of the Premises or any
person at the Premises with the authority of any of them to pay to the Landlord or to whomever the Landlord so directs a sum equal to the payment so refused and the Landlord covenants to apply such sum to the reinstatement of the Premises pursuant
to its obligations under this Lease and the Head Lease.    

6.4  
      
   Suspension of Rent    

6.4.1  
      
  If the whole or part of the Premises are damaged or destroyed by an Insured Risk (including for the avoidance of doubt a Default Uninsured Risk) (save to the extent
that the payment of insurance monies are refused in whole or in part by reason of any act or default of the Tenant any undertenant or any other occupier of the Premises or any person at the Premises with the authority of any of them) the Rent (or a
fair proportion of it according to the extent that the Premises are unfit for occupation and use or inaccessible) will be suspended for the period from and including the date of such damage or destruction to and including the earlier
of:   

6.4.1.1  
      
  the date on which the Premises are fit for use accessible and reinstated; and   

6.4.1.2  
      
  the date on which the loss of rent period referred to in clause 6.1.4 expires   

and the Landlord shall refund to the Tenant any Rent paid by the Tenant in respect of the period after the date of such damage or destruction and relating to the
period of any such suspension.   

6.4.2  
      
  With effect from the date of damage or destruction by a Market Uninsured Risk, the Rent or a fair proportion of it according to the nature and extent of the damage
sustained, is to be suspended and cease to be payable until the date on which the Premises are fit for use accessible and reinstated and the Landlord shall refund to the Tenant any Rent paid by the Tenant in respect of the period after the date of
such damage or destruction and relating to the period of any such suspension.   

6.4.3  
      
  Any dispute about the operation of this clause 6.4 is to be referred to an Independent Person acting as an expert in accordance with the Seventh
Schedule.   

6.5  
      
   Termination    

6.5.1  
      
  If the Premises (or a substantial part of them) are damaged or destroyed by an Insured Risk or an Uninsured Risk within the last five years of the Term, so that the
whole or substantially the whole of the Premises are unfit for occupation and use or are inaccessible, either the Landlord or the Tenant may terminate this Lease by serving six months' written notice on the other party within twelve months of the
date of damage or destruction.    

6.5.2  
      
  If the Landlord has not commenced the works of rebuilding or reinstating the Premises within the period of three years of the damage or destruction by an Insured Risk (which is
not, while the Head Landlord is obliged to insure the Premises, a Default Uninsured Risk) the Tenant may terminate this Lease by giving to the Landlord written notice to that effect.   

6.5.3  
      
  If the Premises are damaged or destroyed by an Insured Risk (which is not, while the Head Landlord is obliged to insure the Premises, a Default Uninsured Risk) and the Landlord
has not practically completed the works of rebuilding or reinstating the Premises (as evidenced by the issue of the certificate or statement of practical completion under the building contract for the works but subject only to such minor snagging
which would not impede the use and occupation of the Premises as high class offices by the Tenant) prior to the expiry of the loss of rent period referred to in clause 6.1.4 the Tenant may terminate this Lease by giving to the Landlord written
notice to that effect (unless the works have been so practically completed before the date of the Tenant s notice).   

6.6  
      
   Damage by a Market Uninsured Risk    

6.6.1  
      
  The provisions of this Clause 6.6 apply following damage or destruction by a Market Uninsured Risk to the Premises or any part of them.   

6.6.2  
      
  The Landlord and the Tenant shall as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within nine months of the date of any damage or destruction by a Market Uninsured Risk to the
Premises or any part of them, consult with each other with regard to the Landlord s intentions in relation to the Premises.   

6.6.3  
      
  If as a result of a Market Uninsured Risk the Premises either suffers Substantial Damage or is destroyed the Landlord may in its absolute discretion by service in writing (an
 Election Notice ) on the Tenant given within the period of 12 months following the date of such damage or destruction elect whether or not it intends to rebuild or reinstate the Premises. The Landlord shall act in good faith towards the
Tenant in deciding whether or not it intends to rebuild or reinstate the Premises.   

6.6.4  
      
  If the Premises suffer damage which is not Substantial Damage but is caused by a Market Uninsured Risk the Landlord shall (to the extent that such damage adversely affects the
use and enjoyment of the Premises by the Tenant as high class offices) reinstate the Premises in accordance with clause 6.6.5.    

6.6.5  
      
  If the Landlord serves an Election Notice electing to rebuild or reinstate the Premises so damaged or destroyed or is obliged to reinstate under clause 6.6.4 the
Landlord shall:   

6.6.5.1  
      
  notify the Tenant and keep it notified of the source or sources and amounts of finance available to the Landlord to effect the reinstatement of the Premises and shall respond
reasonably as soon as possible to the Tenant s reasonable requests for further information on sources and amounts of such finance; and   

6.6.5.2  
      
  use reasonable endeavours to obtain all planning and other consents necessary to rebuild and reinstate the Premises as soon as reasonably practicable and when the consents have
been obtained the Landlord shall proceed to rebuild and reinstate the Premises as soon as reasonably practicable substantially as they were before the destruction or damage in modern form if appropriate but not necessarily identical in layout and
shall in addition reinstate the accesses to the Premises if so destroyed or damaged and shall notify the Tenant as soon as is reasonably practicable after such damage has occurred but in any event within twelve months of the date of such damage of
its programme and proposals for such reinstatement and keep the Tenant reasonably informed of the progress of such reinstatement and use reasonable endeavours to procure warranties in an industry standard form in favour of the Tenant from the
contractor and professional team.   

6.6.6  
      
  If the Landlord serves an Election Notice electing not to rebuild or reinstate the Premises the Landlord or the Tenant may terminate this Lease by giving written
notice to the other to that effect to expire immediately.   

6.6.7  
      
  If the Landlord has not served an Election Notice within twelve months after the date of damage or destruction of the Premises, the Tenant may terminate this Lease by
giving to the Landlord notice to that effect at any time thereafter to expire immediately.   

6.6.8  
      
  If the Landlord has not commenced the works of rebuilding or reinstatement within three years of the date of damage or destruction, the Tenant may terminate this
Lease by giving to the Landlord written notice to that effect to expire immediately.    

6.6.9  
      
  If the Landlord has not practically completed the works of rebuilding or reinstating the Premises (as evidenced by the issue of the certificate or statement of practical
completion under the building contract for the works but subject only to such minor snagging which would not impede the use and occupation of the Premises as high class offices by the Tenant) prior to the expiry of a period of the same length as the
loss of rent period referred to in clause 6.1.4 the Tenant may terminate the Lease by giving to the Landlord written notice to that effect to expire immediately (unless the works have been so practically completed before the date of the
Tenant s notice).   

6.6.10  
      
  On the expiry of any notice of termination given under this clause, this Lease will terminate, but without affecting any liability arising from a breach of covenant or condition
which has occurred before this.   

6.7  
      
   Damage by a Default Uninsured Risk    

6.7.1  
      
  The provisions of this Clause 6.7 apply until the Head Landlord ceases to be obliged for any reason to insure the Premises and following damage or destruction by a Default
Uninsured Risk to the Premises or any part of them.   

6.7.2  
      
  The Landlord and the Tenant shall as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within nine months of the date of any damage or destruction by a Default Uninsured Risk to
the Premises or any part of them, consult with each other with regard to the Landlord s intentions in relation to the Premises.   

6.7.3  
      
  If as a result of a Default Uninsured Risk the Premises either suffers Substantial Damage or is destroyed the Landlord shall use best endeavours to procure payment by the Head
Landlord of a sum equal to the insurance monies which the insurer should have paid had the Head Landlord complied with its obligations to insure in the Headlease (the  Default Shortfall ).   

6.7.4  
      
  If the Landlord receives payment of the Default Shortfall the Landlord shall use reasonable endeavours to obtain all planning and other consents necessary to rebuild and
reinstate the Premises as soon as reasonably practicable and when the consents have been obtained the Landlord shall proceed to rebuild and reinstate the Premises as soon as reasonably practicable substantially as they were before the destruction or
damage in modern form if appropriate but not necessarily identical in layout and shall in addition reinstate the accesses to the Premises if so destroyed or damaged and shall notify the Tenant as soon as is reasonably practicable after such damage
has occurred but in any event within twelve months    

of the date of such damage of its programme and proposals for such reinstatement and keep the Tenant reasonably informed of the progress of such reinstatement and use
reasonable endeavours to procure warranties in an industry standard form in favour of the Tenant from the contractor and professional team.   

6.7.5  
      
  If the Landlord has not received payment of the Default Shortfall within 12 months following the date that the Premises suffers Substantial Damage or is destroyed by
a Default Uninsured Risk then subject to clause 6.7.6 the Tenant or (subject to the Landlord having complied with its obligations in clause 6.7.3) the Landlord may terminate this Lease by giving written notice to the other to that effect to expire
immediately PROVIDED THAT if at that date the Landlord or the Tenant acting reasonably consider that there is a realistic possibility of the Head Landlord paying the Default Shortfall the Landlord or the Tenant may not terminate this Lease under
this clause 6.7.5 until there is no longer a realistic possibility of the Head Landlord paying the Default Shortfall or the date which is 24 months following the date that the Premises suffers Substantial Damage or is destroyed by a Default
Uninsured Risk if earlier.   

6.7.6  
      
  The Landlord may at any time in its absolute discretion by service in writing on the Tenant given within the period of 12 months following the date of such damage or
destruction elect to rebuild or reinstate the Premises and if the Landlord serves such notice this Lease may not be terminated under clause 6.7.5.   

6.7.7  
      
  If the Premises suffers damage which is not Substantial Damage but is caused by a Default Uninsured Risk the Landlord shall (to the extent that such damage adversely
affects the use and enjoyment of the Premises by the Tenant as high class offices) reinstate the Premises in accordance with clause 6.7.8.   

6.7.8  
      
  If the Landlord serves notice under clause 6.7.6 or is obliged to reinstate under clause 6.7.7 the Landlord shall:   

6.7.8.1  
      
  notify the Tenant and keep it notified of the source or sources and amounts of finance available to the Landlord to effect the reinstatement of the Premises and shall respond
reasonably as soon as possible to the Tenant s reasonable requests for further information on sources and amounts of such finance; and   

6.7.8.2  
      
  use reasonable endeavours to obtain all planning and other consents necessary to rebuild and reinstate the Premises as soon as reasonably practicable and when the consents have
been obtained    

the Landlord shall proceed to rebuild and reinstate the Premises as soon as reasonably practicable substantially as they were before the destruction or damage in modern form if
appropriate but not necessarily identical in layout and shall in addition reinstate the accesses to the Premises if so destroyed or damaged and shall notify the Tenant as soon as is reasonably practicable after such damage has occurred but in any
event within twelve months of the date of such damage of its programme and proposals for such reinstatement and keep the Tenant reasonably informed of the progress of such reinstatement and use reasonable endeavours to procure warranties in an
industry standard form in favour of the Tenant from the contractor and professional team.   

6.7.9  
      
  If the Landlord has not commenced the works of rebuilding or reinstatement within three years of the date of damage or destruction, the Tenant may terminate this
Lease by giving to the Landlord written notice to that effect to expire immediately.   

6.7.10  
      
  If the Landlord has not practically completed the works of rebuilding or reinstating the Premises (as evidenced by the issue of the certificate or statement of
practical completion under the building contract for the works but subject only to such minor snagging which would not impede the use and occupation of the Premises as high class offices by the Tenant) prior to the expiry of a period of the same
length as the loss of rent period referred to in clause 6.1.4 the Tenant may terminate the Lease by giving to the Landlord written notice to that effect to expire immediately (unless the works have been so practically completed before the date of
the Tenant s notice).   

6.7.11  
      
  On the expiry of any notice of termination given under this clause, this Lease will terminate, but without affecting any liability arising from a breach of covenant
or condition which has occurred before this.   

6.8  
      
   Damage/Destruction occurring during Tenant s Rent Free Period    

If the whole or part of the Premises are damaged or destroyed by an Insured Risk or an Uninsured Risk prior to the Rent Commencement Date then the Rent Commencement
Date shall be deferred by one day for every day within the period commencing on the date of damage or destruction and ending on the date on which the whole of the Premises shall again be fit for occupation and use and accessible but if part of the
Premises has been damaged or destroyed and provided that the remainder of the Premises is capable of beneficial occupation and use in    

accordance with the terms of this Lease notwithstanding such damage or destruction, the Rent Commencement Date shall be so deferred only in relation to the part of the Premises
so damaged or destroyed and in such circumstances the Rent payable from the Rent Commencement Date in respect of that part of the Premises which is not so damaged or destroyed shall be a proportion of the Rent calculated by reference to the Net
Internal Area of the part not so damaged or destroyed and any dispute regarding the deferment of the Rent Commencement Date or the apportionment of the Rent shall be referred by either party to the Independent Person acting as an expert in
accordance with the Seventh Schedule.   

6.9  
      
   Noting of Tenant s Interest and Information    

The Landlord covenants with the Tenant in relation to the policy of insurance effected by the Head Landlord or the Landlord pursuant to its obligations in this Lease that it
shall:   

6.9.1  
      
  notify its insurers and shall (subject to the terms of the Head Lease) procure that the Head Landlord notifies its insurers (if applicable) of the interest of the Tenant in the
Premises and shall use reasonable endeavours to have such interest noted on the policies of insurance or by a general noting under the conditions of the policies;   

6.9.2  
      
  at the cost of the Tenant use best endeavours to procure that the insurers issue a waiver of subrogation rights in respect of the Tenant any undertenant and any other lawful
occupier;   

6.9.3  
      
  produce to the Tenant at the Tenant s own cost as soon as reasonably practicable following demand (but not more often than once in any calendar year) a copy of the policies
of insurance effected by the Landlord or the Head Landlord and evidence of the terms of the policies and the fact that the last premium has been paid;   

6.9.4  
      
  notify the Tenant of any change in the risks covered by the policies from time to time as well as any changes in the terms of cover of which is becomes
aware.    

6.10  
      
   Latent Defects Insurance Policies    

6.10.1  
      
  The Tenant shall make and diligently pursue such claims under the Latent Defects Insurance Policies as it reasonably believes are valid and shall make such claims as
soon as reasonably practicable after becoming aware of the circumstances giving rise to the claim and shall keep the Landlord regularly informed of progress by way of such reports and meetings as the Landlord may reasonably require.   

6.10.2  
      
  The Landlord shall not make any claims under the Latent Defects Insurance Policies unless:   

6.10.2.1  
      
  the Landlord has first given written notice to the Tenant of the circumstances which the Landlord believes give rise to a claim pursuant to the Latent Defects Insurance Policies
accompanied by such evidence as the insurer would reasonably require in support of such a claim and whatever protective notice is required to be given under the terms of the Latent Defects Insurance Policies; and   

6.10.2.2  
      
  the Tenant has not made a claim or has not given written notice to the Landlord within 20 Working Days of the Landlord s notice pursuant to clause 6.10.2.1 that it has made
a claim under the Latent Defects Insurance Policies in respect of the circumstances referred to in the Landlord s notice.   

6.10.3  
      
  In respect of any claim made by the Tenant under the Latent Defects Insurance Policies, the Tenant will elect for reinstatement of the Premises where the terms of the
Latent Defects Insurance Policies so permit.   

6.10.4  
      
  Where the Landlord makes a claim under the Latent Defects Insurance Policies, the Tenant s obligations under clause 6.10.1 shall be suspended in relation to that
claim only and the Tenant shall not take any action in respect of that claim unless its assistance is requested by the Landlord.   

6.10.5  
      
  The Landlord will procure that the relevant proceeds of claim are paid to the Tenant (and if and to the extent that the Landlord receives such proceeds of claim, it
shall procure that the relevant proceeds are paid to the Tenant within ten Working Days).   

6.10.6  
      
  The Tenant will apply the monies it receives as the proceeds of any claim made pursuant to the Latent Defects Insurance Policies in remedying the defect for which the
relevant monies have been paid (unless and to the extent that the Tenant has already used its own monies to remedy the relevant defect).    

6.10.7  
      
  The Landlord and the Tenant shall not, whether by act, default or omission, do anything of any nature whatsoever which would render the Latent Defects Insurance
Policies void or voidable or reduce the amount of money which would but for that have been recoverable thereunder.   

6.10.8  
      
  The Landlord and the Tenant shall comply with all requirements of the insurers and the terms of the Latent Defects Insurance Policies.   

6.10.9  
      
  The Tenant shall permit the insurers and the Landlord and all persons authorised by them to exercise all rights available to them pursuant to the Latent Defects
Insurance Policies and to take such actions as are necessary to comply with them.   

7  
      
   PROVISOS    

PROVIDED ALWAYS AND IT IS HEREBY AGREED AND DECLARED as follows:   

7.1  
      
   Forfeiture    

Without prejudice to any other right remedy or power herein contained or otherwise available to the Landlord:   

7.1.1  
      
  if any of the rents reserved by this Lease or any sums due pursuant to clause 4.3 or any part of them shall be unpaid for 14 days after becoming payable (whether
formally demanded or not); or   

7.1.2  
      
  if any of the covenants by the Tenant contained in this Lease shall not be performed and observed; or   

7.1.3  
      
  if the Tenant, for the time being, and/or the Guarantor (if any) (being a body corporate):   

7.1.3.1  
      
  calls, or a nominee on its behalf calls, a meeting of any of its creditors; or makes an application to the Court under part 26 of the Companies Act 2006; or submits to any of its
creditors a proposal under Part I of the Insolvency Act 1986; or enters into any arrangement, scheme, compromise, moratorium or composition with any of its creditors (whether under Part I of the Insolvency Act 1986 or otherwise);
or    

7.1.3.2  
      
  has an administrative receiver or a receiver or a receiver and manager appointed in respect of the Tenant s or the Guarantor s property or assets or any part;
or   

7.1.3.3  
      
  resolves or the directors or shareholders resolve to present a petition for an administration order in respect of the Tenant or the Guarantor (as the case may be); or an
administrator is appointed; or   

7.1.3.4  
      
  has a winding-up petition or petition for an administration order presented against it (other than a petition which is frivolous or vexatious and which is not discharged within
20 Working Days); or passes a winding-up resolution (other than a voluntary winding-up whilst solvent for the purposes of an amalgamation or reconstruction); or calls a meeting of its creditors for the purposes of considering a resolution that it be
wound-up voluntarily; or resolves to present its own winding-up petition; or is wound-up (whether in England or elsewhere); or has a liquidator or provisional liquidator appointed; or   

7.1.3.5  
      
  shall cease for any reason to maintain its corporate existence; or is struck off the register of companies; or otherwise ceases to exist; or   

7.1.4  
      
  if the Tenant for the time being and/or the Guarantor (if any) (being an individual or if more than one individual, then any one of them) makes an application to the
Court for an interim order under Part VIII of the Insolvency Act 1986 or convenes a meeting of or enters into any arrangement scheme compromise moratorium or composition with any of his creditors or any of them (whether pursuant to Part VIII of the
Insolvency Act 1986 or otherwise) or has a bankruptcy petition presented against him or is adjudged bankrupt or has a receiver appointed in respect of the Tenant s or the Guarantor s property or assets or any part; or   

7.1.5  
      
  if analogous proceedings or events to those referred to in this clause shall be instituted or occur in relation to the Tenant, for the time being, and/or the Guarantor
(if any) elsewhere than in the United Kingdom; or   

7.1.6  
      
  if the Tenant, for the time being, and/or the Guarantor (if any) becomes unable to pay its debts as and when they fall due   

THEN and in any such case the Landlord may at any time thereafter re-enter the Premises or any part thereof in the name of the whole and thereupon the Term and this
Lease shall absolutely cease and determine but without prejudice to any rights or remedies which may then have accrued in respect of any antecedent breach of any of the covenants contained in this Lease.    

7.2  
      
   No implied easements    

Nothing herein contained shall impliedly confer upon or grant to the Tenant any easement right or privilege other than those expressly granted by this Lease and Section 62 of the
Law of Property Act 1925 is excluded from this Lease.   

7.3  
      
   Exclusion of warranty as to user    

Nothing contained in this Lease or in any agreement leading to its grant or in any consent granted by the Landlord under this Lease shall imply or warrant that the Premises may
be used under the Planning Acts for the use herein authorised or any use subsequently authorised.   

7.4  
      
   Notices    

7.4.1  
      
  Any notice required to be served on the Tenant or the Guarantor (if any) under this Lease shall be in writing and shall be validly made given or served if addressed to the Tenant
or the Guarantor (if any) respectively (and if there shall be more than one of them then any one of them) and delivered personally or sent by pre-paid registered mail addressed (in the case of a company) to its registered office or (whether a
company or individual) its last known address.   

7.4.2  
      
  Any notice required to be served on the Landlord shall be in writing and shall be validly given or served if addressed to the Landlord and delivered personally or sent by
pre-paid registered mail to its registered office.   

7.4.3  
      
  Any notice required to be served on BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited or a Group Company of that company shall be marked for the attention of the General Counsel -
International, Legal and Compliance.    

7.5  
      
   Invalidity of certain provisions    

If any term of this Lease or the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall to any extent be invalid or unenforceable the same shall be severable and the remainder
of this Lease or the application of such term to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected thereby and each term and provision of this Lease shall be valid and be enforced to the
fullest extent permitted by law.   

7.6  
      
   Plans drawings etc    

The Landlord shall have an irrevocable and assignable non-exclusive licence or sub-licence free from any copyright claim as from the expiry or sooner determination of this Lease
to use and reproduce all plans drawings specifications models and other technical information required to be furnished by the Tenant to the Landlord under this Lease but so that the Landlord shall use the same only in connection with the use
ownership operation maintenance and alteration of the Premises and the Tenant shall deliver all such documents to the Landlord promptly upon the expiry or sooner determination of this Lease provided always that the Landlord covenants to treat as
supplied in confidence all drawings, plans, specifications, costs, calculations and other technical information supplied or made available to it by the Tenant.   

7.7  
      
   Third Party Rights    

A person who is not a party to this Lease has no rights by virtue of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any terms of this Lease but this does not affect
any right or remedy of a third party which exists or is available apart from that Act.   

7.8  
      
   Applicable Law and Jurisdiction    

This Lease shall be governed by and construed in all respects in accordance with the Laws of England and proceedings in connection therewith shall be subject (and the parties
hereby submit) to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the English Courts and for the purposes of Rule 6.15 of Civil Procedure Rule 1998 and any other relevant Rules thereof the Tenant and the Guarantor (if any) hereby irrevocably agree that any
process may be served upon them by leaving a copy addressed to them at their address as stated above or at such other address for service within England and Wales as may be notified in writing from time to time to the
Landlord.    

7.9  
      
   Representations    

The Tenant acknowledges that this Lease has not been entered into in reliance wholly or partly on any statement or representation made by or on behalf of the Landlord
except any such statement or representation that is expressly set out in this Lease or in written reply to enquiries raised by the Tenant s solicitors of the Landlord s solicitors prior to the date of any agreement pursuant to which this
Lease is granted.   

7.10  
      
   Transfer on Cessation Date    

7.10.1  
      
  The parties acknowledge that the Transfer Regulations may apply in respect of the Tenant Transferor Employees on the Cessation Date. It is agreed that contracts of
employment of the Tenant Transferor Employees will (save in so far as such contract relates to any occupational pension scheme) have effect after the Cessation Date as if originally made between the Incoming Service Provider and the Tenant
Transferor Employees.   

7.10.2  
      
  The Tenant shall, or shall procure that the Tenant Transferor shall, pay and shall indemnify the Incoming Service Provider against all reasonable costs, expenses, and
all damages, compensation, and all fines and other liabilities which it may suffer or incur arising out of or in connection with any claim action or demand by an Tenant Transferor Employee arising from any acts or omissions of the Tenant Transferor
(save where such acts or omissions arise from a failure of the Landlord and/or the Incoming Service Provider to comply with its statutory or legal obligations) in relation to his employment or the termination of his employment prior to and including
the Cessation Date.   

7.10.3  
      
  The Landlord shall, or shall procure that the Incoming Service Provider shall, be liable for and shall indemnify the Tenant Transferor in respect of any costs,
expenses, damages, compensation, fines and other liabilities which are incurred by the Tenant Transferor arising out of or in connection with:   

7.10.3.1  
      
  any failure by the Incoming Service Provider to comply with its or their obligations under Regulations 13 and/or 14 of the Transfer Regulations;   

7.10.3.2  
      
  any proposal by the Landlord and/or the Incoming Service Provider prior to or following the Cessation Date to make a change which amounts to or would amount to a repudiatory
breach of contract of employment of any person assigned to the Building Services or to    

make a substantial change to the working conditions of any person assigned to the Building Services to the material detriment of that person assigned to the Building Services.
For the purposes of this sub-clause the expressions  repudiatory breach ,  substantial change  and  material detriment  shall have the same meanings as for the purposes of Regulations 4(9) and 4(11) of the Transfer
Regulations respectively.   

7.10.4  
      
  If the employment or any liabilities in respect of the employment or its termination of any employee or former employee of the Tenant Transferor (other than any
Tenant Transferor Employee) (  the Individual  ) is alleged to transfer by reason of the cessation of this Lease and the Transfer Regulations to the Landlord or the Incoming Service Provider then the following shall
occur:   

7.10.4.1  
      
  the Landlord or the Incoming Service Provider shall upon becoming aware of the same give written notice to the Tenant of such transfer or alleged transfer and provide such
details of the Individual as it has in its possession;   

7.10.4.2  
      
  the Tenant Transferor shall have seven days from dispatch of the notice under this Clause to provide the Individual with a written offer of employment with the Tenant Transferor
to commence forthwith and to provide the Landlord or the Incoming Service Provider with written evidence of such offer;   

7.10.4.3  
      
  if the Individual rejects the offer or the offer is not made then the Tenant Transferor shall notify the Landlord or the Incoming Service Provider forthwith. The Incoming Service
Provider shall be entitled in the absence of any confirmation of offer under Clause 7.10.4.2 or upon receipt of notice that the offer was not made or was rejected to terminate the employment or alleged employment of the Individual
forthwith;   

7.10.4.4  
      
  the Tenant shall, or shall procure that the Tenant Transferor shall, indemnify the Landlord and Incoming Service Provider against all costs, claims, damages, awards payments
expenses and other liabilities in relation to the employment or alleged employment of any Individual or termination of the same.    

7.10.5  
      
  During the Termination Period the Tenant shall procure that the Tenant Transferor shall:   

7.10.5.1  
      
  (on receipt of a written request from the Landlord or the Incoming Service Provider) provide in writing within 28 days full details of the Tenant Transferor Employee including
details of their material terms and conditions of employment, age, length of continuous service, sex, current remuneration benefits and any other information relevant to their employment.   

7.10.5.2  
      
  not (without the written consent of the Landlord, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) dismiss, transfer to other duties or vary the contract of employment,
remuneration or benefits of any Tenant Transferor Employee, or recruit or transfer any person so as to make them an Tenant Transferor Employee;   

7.10.5.3  
      
  co-operate fully with the Incoming Service Provider and provide all necessary information relating to the Tenant Transferor Employees to allow the Incoming Service Provider to
carry out its obligations to the Tenant Transferor Employee where employment is or may be transferred under the Transfer Regulations to such Incoming Service Provider.   

7.10.5.4  
      
  warrant that all information provided pursuant to Clauses 7.10.5.1 and 7.10.5.3 shall be true and accurate in all material respects and indemnify the Landlord and any Incoming
Service Provider against any reasonable costs, awards, expenses (including reasonable legal fees) and liabilities which either of them may incur or suffer as a result of a breach of this warranty.   

7.10.6  
      
  On the Cessation Date the Tenant will procure that the Tenant Transferor shall undertake and warrant to the Incoming Service Provider that it will provide to the
Incoming Service Provider accurate complete and up-to-date details of the material terms of employment of the Tenant Transfer Employees.   

7.10.7  
      
  Each party undertakes, if a claim, demand or action is made or threatened that may give rise to a claim for indemnity under this Clause 7.10 then that party shall as the
case may be:   

7.10.7.1  
      
  notify the indemnifying party of such a claim, demand or action in writing within 5 Working Days of it first being made or threatened or if not reasonably practicable to do so
then as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter;    

7.10.7.2  
      
  give the indemnifying party promptly all reasonable co-operation, assistance and information which may be relevant to the claim, demand or action; and   

7.10.7.3  
      
  not admit, defend, compromise, negotiate or settle the claim or action without the consent of the indemnifying party (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) in
writing.   

8  
      
   NEW TENANCY    

This Lease constitutes a new tenancy for the purposes of the Landlord and Tenant (Covenants) Act 1995.   

9  
      
   LIMITATION OF LIABILITY    

9.1  
      
  Mourant   Co Trustees Limited and Mourant Property Trustees Limited (the  Trustees ) are entering into this Lease solely in their capacities as trustees of
the Drapers Gardens Unit Trust (the  Trust ) and, as such, any liability on the part of the Trustees pursuant to this Lease or arising as a result of any part of this Lease is limited to the assets held on trust for the time being of the
Trust which are in its possession or under their control as trustees of the Trust.   

9.2  
      
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Lease, the Trustees have no obligation to meet any claim or liability under this Lease except to the extent that such claim
or liability can properly be met by the Trustees out of assets held by the Trustees on behalf of the Trust.   

9.3  
      
  The parties hereto acknowledge that the effect of clauses 9.1 and 9.2 is that they shall have no recourse to any assets of the Trustees other than to those assets which
are in their possession or under their control as trustees of the Trust.   

9.4  
      
  The parties acknowledge that references in this Lease to the Trustees are references to the Trustees in their capacity as trustees of the Trust and references to actions
in such capacity only and not to any other capacity whatsoever.   

10  
      
   OPTION TO RENEW    

10.1  
      
  In this Clause:   

Contractual Term   
      
  the contractual term granted by this Lease;   

Further Lease   
      
  the further lease to be granted by the Landlord to the Tenant on the terms referred to in Clause 10.3 pursuant to the exercise of the Option; and   

Option   
      
  the option of the Tenant for the grant by the Landlord to it of the Further Lease pursuant to this clause 10.   

10.2  
      
  The Tenant may exercise the Option not more than 18 months nor later than 12 months before the expiry of the Contractual Term by the Tenant giving notice to the
Landlord to that effect.   

10.3  
      
  The Further Lease is to be on the following terms:   

10.3.1  
      
  the term is to be for five years commencing on the expiry of the Contractual Term;   

10.3.2  
      
  the Rent Commencement Date is to be the date of commencement of the term granted by the Further Lease;   

10.3.3  
      
  the rent reserved is to be the yearly rent reserved under this Lease immediately preceding the expiry of the Contractual Term and the review date for the purposes of
the third schedule of the Further Lease is to be the date of commencement of the term granted by the Further Lease and for the purposes of the Third Schedule to the Further Lease, the term of the lease from the willing landlord to the willing tenant
will be ten years and the provisions of paragraph 2.2 of the Third Schedule will not apply;   

10.3.4  
      
  the covenants and conditions (including the proviso for re-entry but excluding these provisions for an option for a Further Lease) in this Lease, apart from the
yearly rent reserved and the rent review dates, are to be incorporated in the Further Lease with such appropriate adjustments as to dates and times as the passage of time renders necessary; and   

10.3.5  
      
  any Guarantor is to be a party to the Further Lease on the same terms as apply to this Lease.   

10.4  
      
  In pursuance of the exercise of the Option, as soon as practicable following expiry of the Contractual Term the Landlord shall grant and the Tenant shall accept the
grant of the Further Lease, unless:    

10.4.1  
      
  this Lease has been terminated before the expiry of the Contractual Term; or   

10.4.2  
      
  the Tenant is at the date of exercise of the Option or at the expiry of the Contractual Term in breach of its obligation to pay Rent.        IN WITNESS  whereof this Lease has been executed by the parties as a Deed and delivered on the day and year first above written   

FIRST SCHEDULE        Rights Granted       The grant of this Lease to the Tenant is with the
benefit of the rights set out in part 1 of the first schedule to the Head Lease (including the Copthall Avenue Head Lease) in common with the Landlord and any other persons having the same or like rights.   

SECOND SCHEDULE        Exceptions and Reservations       The rights and easements set out in part
2 of the first schedule to the Head Lease (including the Copthall Avenue Head Lease) are excepted and reserved out of the Premises to the Landlord and all other persons authorised by it or having the like rights and easements including, where
appropriate, the Head Landlord.   

THIRD SCHEDULE        Rent Reviews        

1  
      
   Definitions    

In this schedule the following expressions shall have the following meanings:   

1.1  
      
   Assumed Premises  means the Premises on the assumption that:   

1.1.1  
      
  the Tenant has removed all tenant s fixtures and all improvements and alterations carried out by the Tenant otherwise than pursuant to an obligation to the Landlord
(reinstating and making good any damage caused to the Premises in so doing) and has left the Premises (constructed and fitted out as specified in paragraph 1.1.2) as clear space; and   

1.1.2  
      
  the Premises have been constructed by the Landlord at its own cost and completed immediately prior to the grant of this Lease in accordance with the Building Specification and as
altered from time to time by alterations carried out by and at the expense of the Landlord and improvements and alterations carried out by the Tenant pursuant to an obligation to the Landlord (other than pursuant to a statutory
obligation);   

1.2  
      
  the  Assumptions  means the following assumptions (if not facts) at the relevant Review Date:   

1.2.1  
      
  that the Assumed Premises are in a condition consistent with the provisions of paragraph 1.1 of this schedule; and   

1.2.2  
      
  that there shall be no discount reduction or allowance to reflect (or compensate any incoming tenant for the absence of) any rent free or concessionary rent period which reflects
the time it would take for the incoming tenant to fit out the Assumed Premises so as to be ready for immediate use or any capital payment or other consideration in lieu thereof and which could reasonably be expected to be granted to the willing
lessee in the open market at the relevant Review Date so that such Open Market Rent shall be that which would be payable after the expiry of any such rent free or concessionary rent period which the willing lessee shall hereby be assumed to have
enjoyed or after receipt by the willing lessee of any such capital payment or other consideration in lieu thereof; and    

1.2.3  
      
  that no work has been carried out to the Premises by the Tenant any undertenant or their respective predecessors in title during the Term which has diminished the
rental value of the Premises; and   

1.2.4  
      
  that if the Premises or the necessary accessways and/or access roads thereto have been destroyed or damaged they have been fully rebuilt and reinstated save to the
extent that the Landlord is in breach of its covenants to rebuild and reinstate the Premises and the necessary accessways and/or access roads thereto and has not remedied such breach within a reasonable period following notification of such breach;
and   

1.2.5  
      
  that the Assumed Premises together with all necessary accessways and access roads comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements; and   

1.2.6  
      
  that all the covenants contained in this Lease have been fully performed and observed save to the extent that the Landlord is in breach of any of its covenants and
has not remedied such breach within a reasonable period following notification of such breach;   

1.3  
      
  the  Disregarded Matters  means:   

1.3.1  
      
  any effect on rent of the fact that the Tenant or any Group Company of the Tenant or any undertenant or any Group Company of any undertenant or their respective
predecessors in title have been or are in occupation of the Premises or any part thereof;   

1.3.2  
      
  any goodwill attached to the Premises by reason of the business then carried on at the Premises by the Tenant or any Group Company of the Tenant or any permitted
undertenant or any Group Company of any permitted undertenant;   

1.3.3  
      
  any improvements to the Premises made before or during the Term by the Tenant or any undertenant or their respective predecessors in title, with the consent of the
Landlord where required under this Lease other than those:   

1.3.3.1  
      
  made in pursuance of an obligation to the Landlord (save pursuant to a statutory obligation); or   

1.3.3.2  
      
  for which the Landlord has made a financial contribution to the extent of that contribution;   

1.3.4  
      
  the provisions of clause 10;    

1.3.5  
      
  the provisions of paragraphs 1.4, 1.5 and 2.2 of this third schedule.   

1.4  
      
   First Review Maximum Rent  means  16,875,291 per annum.   

1.5  
      
   First Review Minimum Rent  means  15,321,072 per annum.   

1.6  
      
   Open Market Rent  means (subject to paragraph 4 below) the clear yearly rack rent at which the Assumed Premises could reasonably be expected to be let as a whole at
the relevant Review Date by a willing landlord to a willing tenant with vacant possession and without any premium or any consideration other than rent for the grant thereof for a term of fifteen years (in the case of the Review Dates occurring on
the fifth and tenth anniversary of the date of commencement of the Term) or ten years (in the case of every other Review Date) commencing on the relevant Review Date and with open market rent reviews on each successive fifth anniversary of the
commencement of the term and otherwise on the terms and conditions and subject to the covenants and provisions contained in this Lease and in any direct deed of covenant given by the Tenant to the Head Landlord other than the amount of the Rent
payable under this Lease and otherwise subject to the provisions for the review of the Rent contained in this schedule and making the Assumptions but disregarding the Disregarded Matters;   

1.7  
      
  the  President  means the President for the time being of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and includes the duly appointed deputy of the President or any
person authorised by the President to make appointments on his behalf; and   

1.8  
      
   Rent Restrictions  means the restrictions imposed by any statute for the control of rent in force on a Review Date or on the date on which any increased rent is
ascertained in accordance with this schedule and which operate to impose any limitation whether in time or amounts on the assessment or the collection of any increase in rent or any part thereof;   

1.9  
      
   Surveyor  means an independent chartered surveyor of not less than fifteen years  standing who is a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and who
is experienced in the letting or valuation of buildings similar to the Assumed Premises in the City of London appointed from time to time to determine the Open Market Rent pursuant to the provisions of this schedule and the Surveyor shall act as an
arbitrator in accordance with the Arbitration Act 1996.   

2  
      
   The Rent    

2.1  
      
  Subject to paragraph 2.2 of this schedule from and including each Review Date the Rent shall be equal to the Open Market Rent at the relevant Review Date as ascertained in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 below or as determined under the provisions of paragraph 4 below (as the case may be).   

2.2  
      
  In relation to the rent review on the Review Date occurring on the fifth anniversary only of the date of commencement of the Term:   

2.2.1  
      
  if the Open Market Rent is greater than the First Review Maximum Rent, the Rent payable from and including the Relevant Review Date shall be the First Review Maximum Rent; or

2.2.2  
      
  if the Open Market Rent is less than the First Review Minimum Rent, the Rent payable from and including the relevant Review Date shall be the First Review Minimum
Rent.   

3  
      
   Agreement or determination of the Open Market Rent    

The Open Market Rent at any Review Date may be agreed in writing at any time between the Landlord and the Tenant but if for any reason the Landlord and the Tenant have not so
agreed then from a date two months prior to the relevant Review Date either the Landlord or the Tenant may by notice in writing to the other require the Open Market Rent to be determined by the Surveyor.   

4  
      
   Deemed Open Market Rent    

Subject always to the provisions of paragraph 2.2 of this Third Schedule if the Open Market Rent at any Review Date (as ascertained pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Schedule) is
less than the Rent payable immediately preceding the relevant Review Date (but disregarding any suspension of the Rent pursuant to clause 6) or if the Open Market Rent at the relevant Review Date cannot for any reason be so ascertained then for the
purposes of this schedule the Open Market Rent at the relevant Review Date shall be deemed to be the Rent payable immediately preceding the relevant Review Date (disregarding any suspension of rent as aforesaid).    

5  
      
   Appointment of Surveyor    

5.1  
      
  The Surveyor (in default of agreement between the Landlord and the Tenant) shall be appointed by the President on the written application of either the Landlord or the Tenant
made not earlier than two months before the relevant Review Date.   

5.2  
      
  The following provisions shall apply to the appointment of the Surveyor:   

5.2.1  
      
  the date of the arbitrator s award shall be deemed to be the date on which a copy of the award is served on the Landlord and the Tenant;   

5.2.2  
      
  the arbitrator shall not be entitled to order the rectification, setting aside or cancellation of this Lease or any other deed;   

5.2.3  
      
  the arbitrator shall have the power to order a provisional award;   

5.2.4  
      
  the arbitrator shall not be entitled to require that security is provided in respect of the costs of the arbitration; and   

5.2.5  
      
  the arbitrator shall not be entitled to make an award prior to the relevant Review Date.   

6  
      
   Fees of Surveyor    

The fees and expenses of the Surveyor including the cost of his nomination shall be payable by the Landlord and the Tenant in such proportions as the Surveyor shall, at his
discretion, direct.   

7  
      
   Appointment of new surveyor    

If the Surveyor fails to give notice of his determination within 80 days of his appointment or if he dies is unwilling to act or becomes incapable of acting or if for any other
reason he is unable to act then either the Landlord or the Tenant may request the President to discharge the said surveyor and appoint another surveyor in his place which procedure may be repeated as many times as necessary.   

8  
      
   Interim payments pending determination    

8.1  
      
  In the event that by the relevant Review Date the Rent has not been agreed or determined as aforesaid (the date of agreement or determination being herein called  the
Determination Date ) then in respect of the period (herein called  the Interim Period ) beginning with the relevant Review Date and ending on the day    

before the Quarter Day following the Determination Date the Tenant shall pay to the Landlord Rent at the yearly rate payable immediately before the relevant Review Date or (in
the case of the Review Date occurring on the fifth anniversary of the date of commencement of the Term) at the rate of the First Review Minimum Rent.   

8.2  
      
  Forthwith following the Determination Date the Tenant shall pay to the Landlord the amount (if any) by which the Rent paid on account by the Tenant under the provisions of
paragraph 8.1 above in respect of the Interim Period falls short of the aggregate of Rent payable in respect of the Interim Period together with interest on each of the instalments of such shortfall at the Base Rate from the date of each relevant
under payment to the date of payment.   

9  
      
   Rent Restrictions    

On each occasion that Rent Restrictions shall prevent or prohibit either wholly or partially:   

9.1  
      
  the operation of the above provisions for review of the Rent; or   

9.2  
      
  the normal collection and retention by the Landlord of any increase in the Rent or any instalment or part thereof   

THEN in each such case:   

9.3  
      
  the operation of such provisions for review of the Rent shall be postponed to take effect on the first date or dates thereafter upon which such operation may occur Provided that
such operation shall not take place more frequently than would be the case in the absence of any Rent Restrictions throughout the Term of this Lease; and   

9.4  
      
  the collection of any increase or increases in the Rent shall be postponed to take effect on the first date or dates thereafter that such increase or increases may be collected
and/or retained in whole or in part and on as many occasions as shall be required to ensure the collection of the whole increase   

AND until the Rent Restrictions shall be relaxed either partially or wholly the Rent shall be the maximum sum from time to time permitted by the Rent
Restrictions.    

10  
      
   Memoranda of reviewed rent    

As soon as the amount of any reviewed Rent has been agreed or determined memoranda thereof shall be prepared by the Landlord or its solicitors and thereupon shall be signed by or
on behalf of the Landlord and the Tenant and annexed to this Lease and the counterpart thereof and the parties shall bear their own costs in respect thereof.   

11  
      
   Time not of the essence    

For the purpose of this schedule time shall not be of the essence.    

FOURTH SCHEDULE        Covenants by the Guarantor        

1  
      
   Indemnity by Guarantor    

The Guarantor hereby covenants with the Landlord as a primary obligation that the Tenant or the Guarantor shall at all times until the Tenant shall cease to be bound by the
Tenant s covenants in the Lease during the Term duly perform and observe all the covenants on the part of the Tenant contained in this Lease including the payment of the rents hereby reserved and all other sums payable under this Lease in the
manner and at the times herein specified and the Guarantor shall indemnify and keep indemnified the Landlord against all claims demands losses damages liability costs fees and expenses whatsoever sustained by the Landlord by reason of or arising
directly or indirectly out of any default by the Tenant in the performance and observance of any of its obligations or the payment of any rents and other sums.   

2  
      
   Guarantor jointly and severally liable with Tenant    

The Guarantor hereby further covenants with the Landlord that the Guarantor is jointly and severally liable with the Tenant (whether before or after any disclaimer by a
liquidator or trustee in bankruptcy) for the fulfilment of all the obligations of the Tenant under this Lease and agrees that the Landlord in the enforcement of its rights hereunder may proceed against the Guarantor as if the Guarantor was named as
the Tenant in this Lease.   

3  
      
   Waiver by Guarantor    

3.1  
      
  The Guarantor hereby waives any right to require the Landlord to proceed against the Tenant or to pursue any other remedy whatsoever which may be available to the Landlord before
proceeding against the Guarantor.   

3.2  
      
  The Guarantor waives any right which at any time the Guarantor has under the existing or future laws of Jersey whether by virtue of the   droit de discussion   or
otherwise to require that recourse be had to the assets of any other person before any claim is enforced against the Guarantor in respect of the obligations hereby assumed by the Guarantor and the Guarantor undertakes that if at any time the
Landlord (or any trustee or agent on its behalf) sues the Guarantor and no other person in respect of any such obligations the Guarantor shall not claim that any other person be made a party to the proceedings and the Guarantor agrees to
be    

bound by this Lease whether or not the Guarantor is made a party to legal proceedings for the recovery of the amount due or owing to the Landlord as aforesaid by any other person
and whether the formalities required by any law of Jersey whether existing or future in regard to the rights or obligations of sureties shall or shall not have been observed.   

3.3  
      
  The Guarantor further waives any right which the Guarantor may have under the existing or future laws of Jersey whether by virtue of the   droit de division   or
otherwise to require that any liability under this Lease be divided or apportioned with any other person or reduced in any manner whatsoever.   

4  
      
   Postponement of claims by Guarantor against Tenant    

The Guarantor hereby further covenants with the Landlord that the Guarantor shall not claim in any liquidation bankruptcy composition or arrangement of the Tenant in competition
with the Landlord and shall remit to the Landlord the proceeds of all judgments and all distributions it may receive from any liquidator trustee in bankruptcy or supervisor of the Tenant and shall hold for the benefit of the Landlord all security
and rights the Guarantor may have over assets of the Tenant whilst and to the extent that any liabilities of the Tenant or the Guarantor to the Landlord remain outstanding.   

5  
      
   Postponement of participation by Guarantor in security    

The Guarantor shall not be entitled to participate in any security held by the Landlord in respect of the Tenant s obligations to the Landlord under this Lease or to stand
in the place of the Landlord in respect of any such security until all the obligations of the Tenant or the Guarantor to the Landlord under this Lease have been performed or discharged.   

6  
      
   No release of Guarantor    

None of the following or any combination thereof shall release discharge or in any way lessen or affect the liability of the Guarantor under this Lease:   

6.1  
      
  any neglect delay or forbearance of the Landlord in endeavouring to obtain payment of the rents or other amounts required to be paid by the Tenant or in enforcing the performance
or observance of any of the obligations of the Tenant under this Lease;    

6.2  
      
  any refusal by the Landlord to accept rent tendered by or on behalf of the Tenant at a time when the Landlord was entitled (or would after the service of a notice under section
146 of the Law of Property Act 1925 have been entitled) to re-enter the Premises;   

6.3  
      
  any extension of time given by the Landlord to the Tenant;   

6.4  
      
  (subject to section 18 of the Landlord and Tenant (Covenants) Act 1995) any variation of the terms of this Lease (including any reviews of the rent payable under this Lease) or
the transfer of the Landlord s reversion or the assignment of this Lease;   

6.5  
      
  any change in the identity constitution structure or powers of any of the Tenant the Guarantor the Landlord or the liquidation administration or bankruptcy (as the case may be)
of either the Tenant or the Guarantor;   

6.6  
      
  any legal limitation or any immunity disability or incapacity of the Tenant (whether or not known to the Landlord) or the fact that any dealings with the Landlord by the Tenant
may be outside or in excess of the powers of the Tenant; or   

6.7  
      
  any other act omission matter or thing whatsoever whereby but for this provision the Guarantor would be exonerated either wholly or in part (other than a release under seal given
by the Landlord).   

7  
      
   Disclaimer or forfeiture of Lease    

7.1  
      
  The Guarantor hereby further covenants with the Landlord that:   

7.1.1  
      
  if the Crown or a liquidator or trustee in bankruptcy shall disclaim or surrender this Lease; or   

7.1.2  
      
  if this Lease shall be forfeited; or   

7.1.3  
      
  if the Tenant shall cease to exist   

THEN the Guarantor shall if the Landlord by notice in writing given to the Guarantor within 180 days after such disclaimer or other event so requires accept from and execute and
deliver to the Landlord a counterpart of a new lease of the Premises for a term commencing on the date of the disclaimer or other event and continuing for the residue then remaining unexpired of the Term such new lease to be at the cost of the
Guarantor and to be at the same rents and subject to the same covenants conditions and provisions as are contained in this Lease.    

7.2  
      
  If the Landlord shall not require the Guarantor to take a new lease the Guarantor shall nevertheless upon demand pay to the Landlord a sum equal to the Rent and other sums that
would have been payable under this Lease but for the disclaimer or other event in respect of the period from and including the date of such disclaimer or other event until the expiration of 180 days therefrom or until the Landlord shall have granted
a lease of the Premises to a third party (whichever shall first occur).   

8  
      
   Benefit of guarantee and indemnity    

This guarantee and indemnity shall enure for the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Landlord under this Lease without the necessity for any assignment
thereof.   

9  
      
   Value Added Tax    

Where, pursuant to the terms of this Lease, the Landlord or any other person (for the purposes of this paragraph 9, the   Supplier  ) makes or is deemed to make a
supply to the Guarantor for Value Added Tax purposes and Value Added Tax is or becomes chargeable on such supply, the Guarantor shall on demand pay to the Supplier (in addition to any other consideration for such supply) a sum equal to the amount of
such Value Added Tax and the Supplier shall provide the Guarantor with a Value Added Tax invoice in respect of such supply in accordance with the requirements of the Value Added Tax Act 1994.    

FIFTH SCHEDULE        Matters to which the Premises are subject        

SIXTH SCHEDULE        Authorised Guarantee Agreement to be given by Tenant and any Guarantor        pursuant to clause 4.17.17.1        

DATED       PARTIES     

(1)  
      
  [                                        
] whose registered office is at
[                                        ]
(registered
number:                                        )
(the   Tenant  ) [and]   

(2)  
      
  [                                        
] whose registered office is at
[                                        ]
(registered
number:                                        )
(the   Landlord  ) [and]   

(3)  
      
  [                                        
] whose registered office is at
[                                        ]
(registered
number:                                        )
(the   Guarantor  )]   

RECITALS   

(A)  
      
  This Agreement is made pursuant to the lease dated [                    ] and
made between (1) Mourant   Co Trustees Limited and Mourant Property Trustees Limited (as Trustees of The Drapers Gardens Unit Trust) and (2) BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited (the   Lease  ) which expression shall
include (where the context so admits) all deeds and documents supplemental to it (whether expressed to be so or not) relating to the premises at Drapers Gardens, 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2 (the   Premises  ).   

(B)  
      
  The Tenant holds the Premises under the Lease and wishes to assign the Lease to
[                                        ] (the
  Assignee  ), and pursuant to the Lease the Landlord s consent is required to such assignment (the   Assignment  ) and such consent is given subject to a condition that the Tenant [and the Guarantor] [is/are] to
enter into a deed in the form of this Deed.    

OPERATIVE PROVISIONS    

1  
      
   Authorised Guarantee    

Pursuant to the condition referred to above, the Tenant covenants with the Landlord, as a primary obligation, that the Assignee or the Tenant shall, at all times during the
period (the   Guarantee Period  ) from the completion of the Assignment until the Assignee shall have ceased to be bound by the  tenant covenants  (which in this Deed shall have the meaning attributed by section 28(1) of the
Landlord and Tenant (Covenants) Act 1995 (the   1995 Act  )) pursuant to the 1995 Act contained in the Lease (including the payment of the rents and all other sums payable under the Lease in the manner and at the times specified in
the Lease), duly perform and observe the tenant covenants.   

2  
      
   Tenant s liability    

2.1  
      
  The Tenant agrees that the Landlord, in the enforcement of its rights under this Deed, may proceed against the Tenant as if the Tenant were the sole or principal debtor in
respect of the tenant covenant in question.   

2.2  
      
  For the avoidance of doubt, notwithstanding the termination of the Guarantee Period the Tenant shall remain liable under this Deed in respect of any liabilities which may have
accrued prior to such termination.   

2.3  
      
  For the avoidance of doubt the Tenant shall be liable under this Deed for any costs and expenses incurred by the Landlord in enforcing the Tenant s obligations under this
Deed.   

3  
      
   Disclaimer of Lease    

The Tenant further covenants with the Landlord that if the Crown or a liquidator or trustee in bankruptcy shall disclaim the Lease during the Guarantee Period the Tenant shall,
if the Landlord by notice in writing given to the Tenant within six months after such disclaimer, accept from and execute and deliver to, the Landlord a counterpart of a new lease of the Premises for a term commencing on the date of the disclaimer
and continuing for the residue then remaining unexpired of the term of the Lease, such new lease to be at the same rents and subject to the same covenants and provisions as are contained in the Lease.   

4  
      
   Supplementary provisions    

By way of provision incidental or supplementary to clauses 1, 2 and 3 of this Deed:    

4.1  
      
   Postponement of claims by Tenant    

The Tenant further covenants with the Landlord that the Tenant shall:   

4.1.1  
      
  not claim in any liquidation, bankruptcy, composition or arrangement of the Assignee in competition with the Landlord and shall remit to the Landlord the proceeds of all
judgments and all distributions it may receive from any liquidator, trustee in bankruptcy or supervisor of the Assignee;   

4.1.2  
      
  hold for the benefit of the Landlord all security and rights the Tenant may have over assets of the Assignee whilst and to the extent that any liabilities of the Tenant or the
Assignee to the Landlord remain outstanding; and   

4.1.3  
      
  not exercise any right or remedy in respect of any amount paid or any liability incurred by the Tenant in performing or discharging its obligations contained in this Deed, or
claim any contribution from any other guarantor.   

4.2  
      
   Postponement of participation by Tenant in security    

The Tenant shall not be entitled to participate in any security held by the Landlord in respect of the Assignee s obligations to the Landlord under the Lease or to stand in
the place of the Landlord in respect of any such security until all the obligations of the Tenant or the Assignee to the Landlord under the Lease have been performed or discharged.   

4.3  
      
   No release of Tenant    

None of the following, or any combination of them, shall release, determine, discharge or in any way lessen or affect the liability of the Tenant as principal obligor under this
Deed or otherwise prejudice or affect the right of the Landlord to recover from the Tenant to the full extent of this guarantee:   

4.3.1  
      
  any neglect, delay or forbearance of the Landlord in endeavouring to obtain payment of any rents or other amounts required to be paid by the Assignee or in enforcing the
performance or observance of any of the obligations of the Assignee under the Lease;   

4.3.2  
      
  any refusal by the Landlord to accept rent tendered by or on behalf of the Assignee at a time when the Landlord was entitled (or would after the service of a notice under section
146 of the Law of Property Act 1925 have been entitled) to re-enter the Premises;    

4.3.3  
      
  any extension of time given by the Landlord to the Assignee;   

4.3.4  
      
  any reviews of the rent payable under the Lease and (subject to section 18 of the 1995 Act) any variation of the terms of the Lease or the transfer of the Landlord s
reversion;   

4.3.5  
      
  any change in the constitution, structure or powers of either the Tenant, the Assignee or the Landlord or the liquidation, administration or bankruptcy (as the case may be) of
either the Tenant or the Assignee;   

4.3.6  
      
  any legal limitation, or any immunity, disability or incapacity of the Assignee (whether or not known to the Landlord) or the fact that any dealings with the Landlord by the
Assignee may be outside, or in excess of, the powers of the Assignee; or   

4.3.7  
      
  any other deed, act, omission, failure, matter or thing whatsoever as a result of which, but for this provision, the Tenant would be exonerated either wholly or partly (other
than a release executed and delivered as a deed by the Landlord or a release effected by virtue of the 1995 Act).   

4.4  
      
   Costs of new lease    

The Landlord s reasonable costs in connection with any new lease granted pursuant to clause 3 of this Deed shall be borne by the Tenant and paid to the Landlord (together
with Value Added Tax) upon completion of such new lease.   

4.5  
      
   Value Added Tax    

Where, pursuant to the terms of this Lease, the Landlord or any other person (for the purposes of this clause 4.5, the   Supplier  ) makes or is deemed to make a
supply to the Tenant for Value Added Tax purposes and Value Added Tax is or becomes chargeable on such supply, the Tenant shall on demand pay to the Supplier (in addition to any other consideration for such supply) a sum equal to the amount of such
Value Added Tax and the Supplier shall provide the Tenant with a Value Added Tax invoice in respect of such supply in accordance with the requirements of the Value Added Tax Act 1994.   

5  
      
   [Guarantee    

5.1  
      
   Indemnity by Guarantor    

The Guarantor hereby covenants with the Landlord as a primary obligation that the Tenant shall at all times until the expiry of the Guarantee Period duly perform and observe all
the covenants on the part of the Tenant contained in this Deed including (without limitation) the payment of the rents reserved and all other sums payable under the Lease in the manner and at the times specified in the Lease and the Guarantor shall
indemnify and keep indemnified the Landlord against all claims demands losses damages liability costs fees and expenses whatsoever sustained by the Landlord by reason of or arising directly or indirectly out of any default by the Tenant in the
performance and observance of any of its obligations or the payment of any rents and other sums.   

5.2  
      
   Guarantor jointly and severally liable with Tenant    

The Guarantor hereby further covenants with the Landlord that the Guarantor is jointly and severally liable with the Tenant (whether before or after any disclaimer by a
liquidator or trustee in bankruptcy) for the fulfilment of all the obligations of the Tenant under this Deed and/or the Lease and agrees that the Landlord in the enforcement of its rights hereunder may proceed against the Guarantor as if the
Guarantor was named as the Tenant in this Deed and/or the Lease.   

5.3  
      
   Waiver by Guarantor    

5.3.1  
      
  The Guarantor hereby waives any right to require the Landlord to proceed against the Tenant or to pursue any other remedy whatsoever which may be available to the Landlord before
proceeding against the Guarantor.   

5.3.2  
      
  The Guarantor waives any right which at any time the Guarantor has under the existing or future laws of Jersey whether by virtue of the   droit de discussion   or
otherwise to require that recourse by had to the assets of any other person before any claim is enforced against the Guarantor in respect of the obligations hereby assumed by the Guarantor and the Guarantor undertakes that if at any time the
Landlord (or any trustee or agent on its behalf) sues the Guarantor and no other person in respect of any such obligations the Guarantor shall not claim that any other person be made a party to the proceedings and the Guarantor agrees to be bound by
this Deed and/or the Lease whether or not the Guarantor is made a party to legal proceedings for the recovery of the amount due or owing to the Landlord as aforesaid by any other person and whether the formalities required by any law of Jersey
whether existing or future in regard to the rights or obligations of sureties shall or shall not have been observed.    

5.3.3  
      
  The Guarantor further waives any right which the Guarantor may have under the existing or future laws of Jersey whether by virtue of the   droit de division   or
otherwise to require that any liability under this Deed and/or the Lease be divided or apportioned with any other person or reduced in any manner whatsoever.   

5.4  
      
   Postponement of claims by Guarantor against Tenant    

The Guarantor hereby further covenants with the Landlord that the Guarantor shall not claim in any liquidation bankruptcy composition or arrangement of the Tenant in competition
with the Landlord and shall remit to the Landlord the proceeds of all judgements and all distributions it may receive from any liquidator trustee in bankruptcy or supervisor of the Tenant and shall hold for the benefit of the Landlord all security
and rights the Guarantor may have over assets of the Tenant whilst and to the extent that any liabilities of the Tenant or the Guarantor to the Landlord remain outstanding.   

5.5  
      
   Postponement of participation by Guarantor in security    

The Guarantor shall not be entitled to participate in any security held by the Landlord in respect of the Tenant s obligations to the Landlord under this Deed and/or the
Lease or to stand in the place of the Landlord in respect of any such security until all the obligations of the Tenant or the Guarantor to the Landlord under this Deed and/or the Lease have been performed or discharged.   

5.6  
      
   No release of Guarantor    

None of the following or any combination thereof shall release discharge or in any way lessen or affect the liability of the Guarantor under this Deed:   

5.6.1  
      
  any neglect delay or forbearance of the Landlord in endeavouring to obtain payment of the rents or other amounts required to be paid by the Tenant or Assignee and/or in enforcing
the performance or observance of any of the obligations of the Tenant under this Deed or the Tenant or Assignee under the Lease;   

5.6.2  
      
  any refusal by the Landlord to accept rent tendered by or on behalf of the Tenant or Assignee at a time when the Landlord was entitled (or would after the service of a notice
under section 146 of the Law of Property Act 1925 have been entitled) to re-enter the Premises;   

5.6.3  
      
  any extension of time given by the Landlord to the Tenant or Assignee;    

5.6.4  
      
  (subject to section 18 of the Landlord and Tenant (Covenants) Act 1995) any variation of the terms of the Lease (including any reviews of the rent payable under the
Lease) or the transfer of the Landlord s reversion or the assignment of this Deed or the Lease with or without the consent of the Guarantor;   

5.6.5  
      
  any change in the identity constitution structure or powers of any of the Tenant the Assignee the Guarantor or the Landlord or the liquidation administration or
bankruptcy (as the case may be) of the Guarantor, the Tenant or the Assignee;   

5.6.6  
      
  any legal limitation or any immunity disability or incapacity of the Tenant or the Assignee (whether or not known to the Landlord) or the fact that any dealings with
the Landlord by the Tenant or the Assignee may be outside or in excess of the powers of the Tenant or the Assignee; or   

5.6.7  
      
  any other act omission matter or thing whatsoever whereby but for this provision the Guarantor would be exonerated either wholly or in part (other than a release
under seal given by the Landlord).   

5.7  
      
   Disclaimer or forfeiture of Lease    

5.7.1  
      
  The Guarantor hereby further covenants with the Landlord that if during the Guarantee Period:   

5.7.1.1  
      
  the Crown or a liquidator or trustee in bankruptcy shall disclaim or surrender the Lease; or   

5.7.1.2  
      
  the Lease shall be forfeited; or   

5.7.1.3  
      
  the Assignee shall cease to exist   

then the Guarantor shall if the Landlord by notice in writing given to the Guarantor within 180 days after such disclaimer or other event so requires accept from and
execute and deliver to the Landlord a counterpart of a new lease of the Premises in the same form as the Lease such new lease of the Premises to be for a term commencing on the date of the disclaimer or other event and continuing for the residue
then remaining unexpired of the Term such new lease to be at the cost of the Guarantor and to be at the same rents and subject to the same covenants conditions and provisions as are contained in the Lease.   

5.7.2  
      
  If the Landlord shall not require the Guarantor to take a new lease the Guarantor shall nevertheless upon demand pay to the Landlord a sum equal to the Rent and other
sums that would have been payable under the Lease but for the disclaimer or    

other event in respect of the period from and including the date of such disclaimer or other event until the expiration of 180 days therefrom or until the Landlord shall have
granted a lease of the Premises to a third party (whichever shall first occur).   

5.8  
      
   Benefit of guarantee and indemnity    

This guarantee and indemnity shall enure for the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Landlord under the Lease without the necessity for any assignment
thereof.   

5.9  
      
   Value Added Tax    

Where, pursuant to the terms of this Deed and/or the Lease, the Landlord or any other person (for the purposes of this clause 5.9 the   Supplier  ) makes or is
deemed to make a supply to the Guarantor for Value Added Tax purposes and Value Added Tax is or becomes chargeable on such supply, the Guarantor shall on demand pay to the Supplier (in addition to any other consideration for such supply) a sum equal
to the amount of such Value Added Tax and the Supplier shall provide the Guarantor with a Value Added Tax invoice in respect of such supply in accordance with the requirements of the Value Added Tax Act 1994.   

6  
      
   Guarantor to join in new lease    

If the Tenant shall be required to take up a new lease pursuant to clause 3 of this Deed, the Guarantor shall join in, and execute and deliver to the Landlord a counterpart of,
such new lease in order to guarantee the obligations of the Tenant under it in the terms of schedule 4 to the Lease.]   

7  
      
   Invalidity of certain provisions    

If any term of this Deed or the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall to any extent be invalid or unenforceable the same shall be severable and the remainder
of this Deed or the application of such term to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected thereby and each term and provision of this Deed shall be valid and be enforced to the
fullest extent permitted by law.   

8  
      
   [Limitation of liability    

8.1  
      
  Mourant   Co Trustees Limited and Mourant Property Trustees Limited (the  Trustees ) are entering into this Deed solely in their capacities as trustees of the
Drapers Gardens Unit Trust (the  Trust ) and, as such, any liability on the part of    

the Trustees pursuant to this Lease or arising as a result of any part of this Deed is limited to the assets held on trust for the time being of the Trust which are in its
possession or under their control as trustees of the Trust.   

8.2  
      
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, the Trustees have no obligation to meet any claim or liability under this Deed except to the extent that such claim or liability
can properly be met by the Trustees out of assets held by the Trustees on behalf of the Trust.   

8.3  
      
  The parties hereto acknowledge that the effect of clauses 8.1 and 8.2 is that they shall have no recourse to any assets of the Trustees other than to those assets which are in
their possession or under their control as trustees of the Trust.   

8.4  
      
  The parties acknowledge that references in this Deed to the Trustees are references to the Trustees in their capacity as trustees of the Trust and references to actions in such
capacity only and not to any other capacity whatsoever.]   
     IN WITNESS  whereof this deed has been executed by the Tenant and is intended to be and is
hereby delivered on the date first above written   

SEVENTH SCHEDULE        Expert determination        

1  
      
  In this Lease, where any issue is required to be dealt with by, or submitted for the determination of, an Independent Person, the following provisions of this schedule are to
apply but, in case of conflict with other provisions specifically relating to expert determination elsewhere in this Lease, those other provisions are to prevail to the extent of the conflict.   

2  
      
  The Independent Person is to be appointed by the parties jointly, or if they cannot or do not agree on the appointment, appointed by whichever of the following is appropriate:

2.1  
      
  the president from time to time of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors; or   

2.2  
      
  the president from time to time of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales;   

or in either case the duly appointed deputy of the president, or other person authorised by him to make appointments on his behalf.   

3  
      
  The Independent Person so appointed is to act as an expert, and not as an arbitrator.   

4  
      
  The Independent Person must afford the parties the opportunity within such a reasonable time limit as he may stipulate to make representations to him (accompanied by professional
rental valuations, reports or other appropriate evidence in the relevant circumstances) and permit each party to make submissions on the representations of the other.   

5  
      
  Neither the Landlord nor the Tenant may without the consent of the other disclose to the Independent Person correspondence or other evidence to which the privilege of
non-production ( without prejudice ) properly attaches.   

6  
      
  The fees and expenses of the Independent Person, including the cost of his nomination, are to be borne as he may direct (but in the absence of such a direction, by the parties in
equal shares). The costs of the parties in relation to the reference to the Independent Person shall be borne as he may direct but, in the absence of any such direction, each party shall bear its own costs.    

7  
      
  One party may pay the costs required to be borne by another party if they remain unpaid for more than 21 days after they become due and then recover these and any incidental
expenses incurred from the other party on demand.   

8  
      
  If the Independent Person refuses to act, becomes incapable of acting or dies, the Landlord or the Tenant may request the appointment of another Independent Person in his stead
under paragraph 2.   

9  
      
  The determination of the Independent Person, except in case of manifest error, is to be binding on the Landlord and the Tenant.    

Signed  as a  Deed  on behalf of  Mourant   Co Trustees Limited , a company registered in Jersey in its capacity as trustee of The Drapers Gardens
Unit Trust by Robin Baird and Alex King, being persons who, in accordance with the laws of that territory, are acting under the authority of the company  
      
  )   

)   

)   

Robin Baird   

Authorised signatory   

Alex King   

Authorised signatory   

Signed  as a  Deed  on behalf of  Mourant Property Trustees Limited , a company registered in Jersey in its capacity as trustee of The Drapers Gardens
Unit Trust by Robin Baird and Alex King, being persons who, in accordance with the laws of that territory, are acting under the authority of the company  
      
  )   

)   

)   

Robin Baird   

Authorised signatory   

Alex King   

Authorised signatory       Lovells   

Signed  as a  Deed  by  BLACKROCK INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (UK) LIMITED  acting by two directors or a director and secretary:  
      
  )   

)   

)   

)   

Director   

Director/Secretary       Lovells   

Appendix        Building Specification       Lovells   

</EX-10.39>

<EX-12.1>
 3
 dex121.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12.1        RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES        (unaudited)  
      (dollars in millions)        

1         
        Includes
redeemable and nonredeemable non-controlling interests.      

2     
    Interest expense on uncertain tax positions, in accordance with ASC 740-10,  Income Taxes  has been recorded within income tax expense on the
consolidated statements of income.      

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

Exhibit 21.1        SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT       The following table lists the direct and
indirect subsidiaries of BlackRock, Inc. as of December 31, 2009.       

Name of Subsidiary    
     
     Jurisdiction/State of Incorporation     

BAA Holdings, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Advisors, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Advisors Holdings, Inc.   
     
  Pennsylvania   

BlackRock Advisors Singapore Pte. Ltd.   
     
  Singapore   

BlackRock Advisors (UK) Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock Asset Management Australia Limited   
     
  Australia   

BlackRock Asset Management Australia Services Limited   
     
  Australia   

BlackRock Asset Management Canada Limited   
     
  Ontario, Canada   

BlackRock Asset Management Deutschland AG   
     
  Germany   

BlackRock Asset Management Guernsey Limited   
     
  Guernsey   

BlackRock Asset Management International Inc.   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Asset Management Investors Services Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock Asset Management Ireland Limited   
     
  Ireland   

BlackRock Asset Management North Asia Limited   
     
  Hong Kong   

BlackRock Asset Management Pensions Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock Asset Management (Schweiz) AG   
     
  Switzerland   

BlackRock Asset Management Services Canada Limited   
     
  Ontario, Canada   

BlackRock Asset Management Southeast Asia Limited   
     
  Singapore   

BlackRock Asset Management Southeast Asia Services Pte. Ltd.   
     
  Singapore   

BlackRock Asset Management UK Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock Australia Holdco Pty. Ltd.   
     
  Australia   

BlackRock Australia Holdings Pty Limited   
     
  Australia   

BlackRock AV, Inc   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Brasil Gestora de Investimentos Ltda.   
     
  Brazil   

BlackRock Cal 1 Investor, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Capital Holdings, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Capital Management, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Capital Markets, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Cayco Limited   
     
  Cayman Islands   

BlackRock Cayman Company   
     
  Cayman Islands   

BlackRock Cayman Finco Limited   
     
  Cayman Islands   

BlackRock (Channel Islands) Limited   
     
  Jersey   

BlackRock Delaware Holdings Inc.   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Employee Trust Co. Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock European Holdings S.  r.l.   
     
  Luxembourg   

BlackRock Execution Services   
     
  California   

BlackRock Executor   Trustee Co. Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock Corporation US Inc.   
     
  California    

SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT (Continued)   
      
   Exhibit 21.1           

Name of Subsidiary    
     
     Jurisdiction/State of Incorporation     

BlackRock Finance Europe Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock Financial Management, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Financing, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Finco, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Finco UK Ltd.   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock First Partner Limited   
     
  Jersey   

BlackRock Fund Advisors   
     
  California   

BlackRock Fund Distribution Company   
     
  California   

BlackRock Funding, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Funding International, Ltd.   
     
  Cayman Islands   

BlackRock Fund Management Company S.A.   
     
  Luxembourg   

BlackRock Fund Managers (Isle of Man) Limited   
     
  Isle of Man   

BlackRock Fund Managers Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock Group Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock Growth Partners, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Holdco Limited   
     
  Cayman Islands   

BlackRock HK Holdco Limited   
     
  Hong Kong   

BlackRock Holdco 2, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Holdco 3, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Holdco 4, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Holdco 5, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Holdco 6, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Holdings Canada Limited   
     
  Ontario, Canada   

BlackRock Holdings Deutschland GmbH   
     
  Germany   

BlackRock Holdings Deutschland Zwei GmbH   
     
  Germany   

BlackRock (Hong Kong) Limited   
     
  Hong Kong   

BlackRock HPB Management LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock India Private Ltd.   
     
  Mumbai, India   

BlackRock (Institutional) Canada Ltd.   
     
  Canada   

BlackRock Institutional Management Corporation   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Institutional Trust Company, National Association   
     
  United States   

BlackRock Insurance PCC Limited   
     
  Isle of Man   

BlackRock International Holdings, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock International Limited   
     
  United Kingdom    

SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT (Continued)   
      
   Exhibit 21.1           

Name of Subsidiary    
     
     Jurisdiction/State of Incorporation     

BlackRock Investments, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Investment Management (Australia) Limited   
     
  Australia   

BlackRock Investment Management B.V.   
     
  Netherlands   

BlackRock Investment Management (Dublin) Limited   
     
  Ireland   

BlackRock Investment Management International Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock Investment Management Ireland Holdings Limited   
     
  Ireland   

BlackRock Investment Management, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Investment Management (Korea) Limited   
     
  Korea   

BlackRock Investment Management (Singapore) Limited   
     
  Singapore   

BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock Investor Services Deutschland GmbH   
     
  Germany   

BlackRock (Isle of Man) Holdings Limited   
     
  Isle of Man   

BlackRock (Isle of Man) Limited   
     
  Isle of Man   

BlackRock Japan Co., Ltd.   
     
  Japan   

BlackRock Japan Holdings GK   
     
  Japan   

BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Kelso Capital Holdings LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Kelso Capital Intermediate Holdings LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Kelso Capital Super Holdings LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Lux Finco S.  r.l.   
     
  Luxembourg   

BlackRock Luxembourg Holdco S.  r.l.   
     
  Luxembourg   

BlackRock (Luxembourg) S.A.   
     
  Luxembourg   

BlackRock Mexican Holdco, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Mortgage Ventures, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock (Netherlands) B.V.   
     
  Netherlands   

BlackRock Operations (Luxembourg) S.  r.l. S. a r.l.   
     
  Luxembourg   

BlackRock Pensions Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock Pensions Nominees Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock Portfolio Holdings, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Portfolio Investments, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock RE Management Company (Luxembourg) S.A.   
     
  Luxembourg   

BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   

BlackRock Second Partner Limited   
     
  Jersey   

BlackRock Securities Co., Ltd.   
     
  Japan   

BlackRock (Singapore) Holdco Pte. Ltd.   
     
  Singapore   

BlackRock (Taiwan) Limited   
     
  Taiwan   

BlackRock Trident Holding Company Limited   
     
  Ireland   

BlackRock UK 1 LP   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock Unit Trust Managers Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

BlackRock (Uruguay) S.A.   
     
  Uruguay   

BlackRock Western Multi-Family Investor LLC   
     
  Delaware    

SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT (Continued)   
      
   Exhibit 21.1           

Name of Subsidiary    
     
     Jurisdiction/State of Incorporation     

BLK Isle of Man Holdings Limited   
     
  Isle of Man   

BR Acquisition Mexico S.A. de C.V.   
     
  Mexico   

BR Jersey International Holdings L.P.   
     
  Jersey   

DSP BlackRock Investment Managers Private Limited   
     
  India   

DSP BlackRock Trustee Company Private Limited   
     
  India   

Grosvenor Alternate Partner Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

Grosvenor Ventures Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

Impact Investing (UK) Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

Impact Investing Pty Ltd.   
     
  Australia   

Impulsora y Promotora BlackRock Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
     
  Mexico   

iShares (DE) I Investmentaktiengesellschaft mit Teilverm gen   
     
  Germany   

iShares Chile Holdings Inversiones Limitada   
     
  Chile   

iShares Chile Inversiones Limitada   
     
  Chile   

iShares Delaware Trust Sponsor LLC   
     
  Delaware   

Mercury Carry Company Ltd.   
     
  Isle of Man   

Mercury Private Equity MUST 3 (Jersey) Limited   
     
  Jersey   

Portfolio Administration   Management Ltd.   
     
  Cayman Islands   

Prestadora de Servicios Integrales BlackRock Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
     
  Mexico   

Princeton Administrators, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

PSN Pty Ltd.   
     
  Australia   

St. Albans House Nominees (Jersey) Ltd.   
     
  Jersey   

SSRM Holdings, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   

State Street Research   Management Company   
     
  Delaware   

State Street Research Investment Services, Inc.   
     
  Massachusetts   

Tower General Partner Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

The Tower Nominees No. 1 Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

The Tower Nominees No. 1 Jersey Limited   
     
  Jersey   

The Tower Nominees No. 2 Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

The Tower Nominees No. 2 Jersey Limited   
     
  Jersey   

Tower Management Services Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   

Trident Merger, LLC   
     
  Delaware   

Wimco Nominees Ltd.   
     
  United Kingdom        

*  
  Certain subsidiaries that are not significant have been omitted.     

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 dex231.htm
 DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP CONSENT

Deloitte   Touche LLP Consent 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent
to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-139457 and 333-145976 on Form S-3 and Registration Statement No. 333-137708 on Form S-8 of BlackRock, Inc. of our reports dated March 10, 2010, relating to the
consolidated financial statements of BlackRock, Inc., and the effectiveness of BlackRock, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of BlackRock, Inc. for the year ended December 31,
2009.       

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 dex311.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 31.1          CEO CERTIFICATION        I, Laurence D. Fink, certify that:

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a 15(f) and 15d 15(f)), for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.         

By:  
     
      /s/ Laurence D. Fink    
 
  Date: March 10, 2010  

Laurence D. Fink   

Chairman       Chief
Executive Officer     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 dex312.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 31.2          CFO CERTIFICATION        I, Ann Marie Petach, certify that:

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a 15(f) and 15d 15(f)), for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.         

By:  
     
      /s/ Ann Marie Petach    
 
  Date: March 10, 2010  

Ann Marie Petach   

Managing Director       Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO

Section 906 Certification of CEO and CFO 

Exhibit 32.1         Certification of CEO and CFO Pursuant to        18 U.S.C.
Section 1350,        as Adopted Pursuant to        Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       In connection
with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of BlackRock, Inc. (the  Company ) for the annual period ending December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), Laurence D. Fink,
as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Ann Marie Petach, as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, each hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ Laurence D. Fink    
 
  Name:  
     
  Laurence D. Fink   
 
  Title:  
     
  Chief Executive Officer   
 
  Date:  
     
  March 10, 2010   

/s/ Ann Marie Petach    
 
  Name:  
     
  Ann Marie Petach   
 
  Title:  
     
  Managing Director   Chief Financial Officer   
 
  Date:  
     
  March 10, 2010    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 blk-20091231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 blk-20091231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 blk-20091231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 blk-20091231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 blk-20091231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 blk-20091231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

