<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160226_10-K_edgar_data_1364742_0001564590-16-013511_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>33888370</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>550252</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>817899</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>8821585</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>11429432</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>6489200</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>174</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001564590-16-013511.hdr.sgml : 20160226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160226134010
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001564590-16-013511
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		144
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BlackRock Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001364742
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				320174431
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0226

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-33099
		FILM NUMBER:		161460245

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		55 EAST 52ND STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10055
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-810-5300

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		55 EAST 52ND STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10055

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BlackRock, Inc.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20060929

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	New BlackRock, Inc.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20060601

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001564590-16-013511.txt : 20160226

10-K
 1
 blk-10k_20151231.htm
 10-K

blk-10k_20151231.htm

UNITED STATES 
 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  
 Washington, D.C. 20549  
   
 FORM 10-K  
   
 (Mark One)  

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015  
 or  

For the transition period from               to             .  
 Commission File No. 001-33099  

BlackRock, Inc.  
 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

Delaware  
 
 32-0174431  

(State or Other Jurisdiction of 
 Incorporation or Organization)  
 
 (I.R.S. Employer 
 Identification No.)  

55 East 52nd Street, New York, NY 10055  
 (Address of Principal Executive Offices)  
 (212) 810-5300  
 (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)  
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of each class      
 
  Name of each exchange on which registered      

Common Stock, $.01 par value  
 1.250% Notes due 2025 

New York Stock Exchange 
 New York Stock Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  
 None  
   
 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known, seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes           No         
 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes           No         
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes           No         
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes           No         
 Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one)    

Large accelerated filer  

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated filer  
 
       (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)   
 
 Smaller reporting company  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes           No         
 The aggregate market value of the voting common stock and nonvoting common stock equivalents held by nonaffiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2015 was approximately $56.3 billion.  
 As of January 31, 2016, there were 163,941,835 shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding.    
 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
 The following documents are incorporated by reference herein:  
 Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement of BlackRock, Inc. to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A of the general rules and regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the 2016 annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 25, 2016 ( Proxy Statement ) are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.  

BlackRock, Inc.   
 Table of Contents  

PART I  

Item 1  
 
   Business    
 
 1  

Item 1A  
 
   Risk Factors    
 
 18  

Item 1B  
 
   Unresolved Staff Comments    
 
 26  

Item 2  
 
   Properties    
 
 26  

Item 3  
 
   Legal Proceedings    
 
 26  

Item 4  
 
   Mine Safety Disclosures    
 
 27  

PART II  

Item 5  
 
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
 
 27  

Item 6  
 
   Selected Financial Data    
 
 28  

Item 7  
 
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
 
 30  

Item 7A  
 
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
 
 54  

Item 8  
 
   Financial Statements and Supplemental Data    
 
 55  

Item 9  
 
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
 
 55  

Item 9A  
 
   Controls and Procedures    
 
 55  

Item 9B  
 
   Other Information    
 
 58  

PART III  

Item 10  
 
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
 
 58  

Item 11  
 
   Executive Compensation    
 
 58  

Item 12  
 
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
 
 58  

Item 13  
 
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
 
 58  

Item 14  
 
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
 
 58  

PART IV  

Item 15  
 
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
 
 58  

Signatures    
 
 61  

Part I   
     Item 1. Business  
 Overview  
 BlackRock, Inc. (together, with its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise indicates,  BlackRock  or the  Company ) is a leading publicly traded investment management firm with $4.645 trillion of assets under management ( AUM ) at December 31, 2015. With employees in more than 30 countries who serve clients in over 100 countries across the globe, BlackRock provides a broad range of investment and risk management services to institutional and retail clients worldwide.  
 Our diverse platform of active (alpha) and index (beta) investment strategies across asset classes enables the Company to tailor investment outcomes and asset allocation solutions for clients. Our product offerings include single- and multi-asset class portfolios investing in equities, fixed income, alternatives and money market instruments. Products are offered directly and through intermediaries in a variety of vehicles, including open-end and closed-end mutual funds,  iShares       exchange-traded funds ( ETFs ), separate accounts, collective investment funds and other pooled investment vehicles. We also offer our  BlackRock Solutions       ( BRS ) investment and risk management technology platform,  Aladdin      , risk analytics and advisory services and solutions to a broad base of institutional investors. The Company is highly regulated and serves its clients as a fiduciary. We do not engage in proprietary trading activities that could conflict with the interests of our clients.  
 BlackRock serves a diverse mix of institutional and retail clients across the globe. Clients include tax-exempt institutions, such as defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans, charities, foundations and endowments; official institutions, such as central banks, sovereign wealth funds, supranationals and other government entities; taxable institutions, including insurance companies, financial institutions, corporations and third-party fund sponsors, and retail investors.  
 BlackRock maintains a significant global sales and marketing presence that is focused on establishing and maintaining retail and institutional investment management relationships by marketing its services to investors directly and through financial professionals and pension consultants, and establishing third-party distribution relationships.  
 BlackRock is an independent, publicly traded company, with no single majority shareholder and over two-thirds of its Board of Directors consisting of independent directors. At December 31, 2015, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ( PNC ) held 21.1% of BlackRock s voting common stock and 22.2% of BlackRock s capital stock, which includes outstanding common stock and nonvoting preferred stock.  
 Management seeks to achieve attractive returns for stockholders over time by, among other things, capitalizing on the following factors:  

the Company s focus on strong performance providing alpha for active products and limited or no tracking error for index products;     

the Company s global reach and commitment to best practices around the world, with approximately 48% of employees outside the United States supporting local investment capabilities and serving clients, and approximately 42% of total AUM managed for clients domiciled outside the United States;     

the Company s diversified active and index product offerings, which enhance its ability to offer a variety of traditional and alternative investment products across the risk spectrum and to tailor single- and multi-asset investment solutions to address specific client needs;     

the Company s differentiated client relationships and fiduciary focus, which enable effective positioning toward changing client needs and macro trends including the secular shift to passive investing and ETFs, a focus on income and retirement, and barbelling of risk using index and active products, including alternatives; and     

the Company s longstanding commitment to risk management and the continued development of, and increased interest in, BRS products and services.     

 BlackRock operates in a global marketplace characterized by a high degree of market volatility and economic uncertainty, factors that can significantly affect earnings and stockholder returns in any given period.  
 The Company s ability to increase revenue, earnings and stockholder value over time is predicated on its ability to generate new business, including business in BRS products and services. New business efforts depend on BlackRock s ability to achieve clients  investment objectives in a manner consistent with their risk preferences and to deliver excellent client service. All of these efforts require the commitment and contributions of BlackRock employees. Accordingly, the ability to attract, develop and retain talented professionals is critical to the Company s long-term success.  

1 
 
    Financial Highlights   

N/A   
 
   not applicable     

(1)   
 
 Net of net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests ( NCI ) (redeemable and nonredeemable).     

(2)   
 
 BlackRock reports its financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP  however, management believes evaluating the Company s ongoing operating results may be enhanced if investors have additional non-GAAP financial measures.     

 See Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Non-GAAP Financial Measures, for further information on non-GAAP financial measures and for as adjusted items for 2015, 2014, and 2013. In 2012, operating income, as adjusted, included an adjustment related to estimated lease exit costs initially recorded in 2011 and the contribution to certain of the Company s bank-managed short-term investment funds ( STIFs ).  In 2011, operating income, as adjusted, included U.K. lease exit costs which represent costs to exit two locations in London and restructuring charges. In 2012 and 2011, the portion of compensation expense associated with certain long-term incentive plans ( LTIP ) funded, or to be funded, through share distributions to participants of BlackRock stock held by PNC has been excluded because it ultimately did not impact BlackRock s book value. Compensation expense associated with appreciation (depreciation) on investments related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans has been excluded as returns on investments set aside for these plans, which substantially offset this expense, are reported in nonoperating income (expense).  

(3)   
 
 Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, and diluted earnings per common share, as adjusted exclude the after-tax impact of the items listed above and also include the effect on deferred income tax expense resulting from certain income tax matters.     

Assets Under Management  
 The Company s AUM by product type for the years 2011 through 2015 is presented below.  

Component changes in AUM by product type for the five years ended December 31, 2015 are presented below.  

(1)   
 
   Amounts include AUM acquired from Claymore Investments, Inc. ( Claymore ) in March 2012, Swiss Re Private Equity Partners ( SRPEP ) in September 2012, Credit Suisse s ETF franchise ( Credit Suisse ETF Transaction ) in July 2013 and MGPA in October 2013.  Amounts also include AUM acquired in the acquisitions of certain assets of BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors LLC ( BKCA ) in March 2015, Infraestructura Institucional and FutureAdvisor in October 2015, and other reclassifications to conform to current period combined AUM policy and presentation. Amounts also include Barclays Global Investors merger-related outflows due to manager concentration considerations prior to the third quarter of 2011 and outflows from scientific active equity performance prior to the second quarter of 2011. As a result of     

 2 

client investment manager concentration limits and the scientific active equity performance, outflows were expected to occur for a period of time subsequent to the close of the transaction.     

AUM represents the broad range of financial assets we manage for clients on a discretionary basis pursuant to investment management agreements that are expected to continue for at least 12 months. In general, reported AUM reflects the valuation methodology that corresponds to the basis used for billing (for example, net asset value). Reported AUM does not include assets for which we provide risk management or other forms of nondiscretionary advice, or assets that we are retained to manage on a short-term, temporary basis.  
 Investment management fees are typically expressed as a percentage of AUM. We also earn performance fees on certain portfolios relative to an agreed-upon benchmark or return hurdle. On some products, we also may earn securities lending revenue. In addition, BlackRock offers its proprietary  Aladdin  investment system as well as risk management, outsourcing and advisory services, to institutional investors under the BRS name. Revenue for these services may be based on several criteria including value of positions, number of users, accomplishment of specific deliverables or other objectives.  
 At December 31, 2015, total AUM was $4.645 trillion, representing a CAGR of 5% over the last five years. AUM growth during the period was achieved through the combination of net market valuation gains, net inflows and acquisitions, including Claymore and SRPEP, which collectively added $13.7 billion of AUM in 2012, Credit Suisse and MGPA, which collectively added $26.9 billion of AUM in 2013 and BKCA, Infraestructura Institucional and FutureAdvisor, which collectively added $2.2 billion of AUM in 2015. Our AUM mix encompasses a broadly diversified product range, as described below.  
 The Company considers the categorization of its AUM by client type, product type, investment style and client region useful to understanding its business. The following discussion of the Company s AUM will be organized as follows:  

Client Type  
 
 Product Type  
 
 Client Region  

Retail    
 
      Equity   
 
      Americas   

iShares   
 
      Fixed Income   
 
      Europe, the Middle East and Africa  ( EMEA )   

Institutional   
 
      Multi-asset   
 
      Asia-Pacific   

Alternatives   

Cash Management   

Client Type  
 Our organizational structure was designed to ensure that strong investment performance is our highest priority, and that we best align with our clients  needs to capitalize on broader industry trends. Furthermore, our structure facilitates strong teamwork globally across both functions and regions in order to enhance our ability to leverage best practices to serve our clients and continue to develop our talent.    Specifically, our investments functions are split into distinct strategies: Active Equity and Fixed Income, Beta, Multi-Asset, Alternatives and Trading/Liquidity.     
 We serve a diverse mix of institutional and retail clients across the globe. Clients include tax-exempt institutions, such as defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans, charities, foundations and endowments; official institutions, such as central banks, sovereign wealth funds, supranationals and other government entities; taxable institutions, including insurance companies, financial institutions, corporations and third-party fund sponsors, and retail investors.  iShares  is presented as a separate client type below, with investments in  iShares  by institutions and retail clients excluded from figures and discussions in their respective sections below.  
 AUM by investment style and client type at December 31, 2015 is presented below.  

Retail  
 BlackRock serves retail investors globally through a wide array of vehicles across the active and passive spectrum, including separate accounts, open-end and closed-end funds, unit trusts and private investment funds. Retail investors are served principally through intermediaries, including broker-dealers, banks, trust companies, insurance companies and independent financial advisors. Clients invest primarily in mutual funds, which totaled $446.4 billion, or 83%, of retail long-term AUM at year-end, with the remainder invested in private investment funds and separately managed accounts ( SMAs ). The majority (92%) of long-term retail AUM is invested in active products, although this is impacted by  iShares  being shown separately. Retail represented 13% of long-term AUM at December 31, 2015 and 35% of long-term base fees for 2015.  
 3 
 
    Component changes in retail   long-term   AUM for 2015 are presented below.   

(1)   
 
 Amounts represent $1.3 billion of AUM acquired in the BKCA acquisition in March 2015 and $366 million of AUM acquired in the FutureAdvisor acquisition in October  2015. The FutureAdvisor acquisition amount does not include AUM that was held in  iShares  holdings.     

 The retail client base is diversified geographically, with 70% of long-term AUM managed for investors based in the Americas, 24% in EMEA and 6% in Asia-Pacific at year-end 2015.  

U.S. retail  long-term net inflows of $18.7 billion, or 5% organic growth, were led by fixed income net inflows of $20.9 billion. Fixed income net inflows were diversified across exposures and products, with strong flows into our unconstrained, high yield and core bond offerings. Equity net inflows of $1.3 billion were driven by flows into our index mutual funds, and we continued to make progress on the reinvigoration and globalization of our fundamental active equity business. Multi-asset class net outflows of $2.5 billion were primarily due to a large single-client transition out of mutual funds into a series of  iShares  across asset classes.     

International retail  long-term net inflows of $19.8 billion, representing 12% organic growth, were positive across major regions and diversified across asset classes. Fixed income products generated net inflows of $10.3 billion, led by short duration and unconstrained strategies as investors looked to manage duration and generate yield in their portfolios. Multi-asset class net inflows of $1.2 billion were driven by flows into managed volatility strategies and the cross-border version of our Multi-Asset Income fund. Equity net inflows of $7.2 billion reflected strong flows into international equities. Alternatives net inflows totaled $1.2 billion, and we remain committed to broadening the distribution of alternatives funds to bring institutional quality alternatives to retail investors.      

 iShares  
 iShares  is the leading ETF provider in the world, with $1.1 trillion of AUM at December 31, 2015 and was the top asset gatherer globally in 2015   1    with $129.9 billion of net inflows for an organic growth rate of 13%. Equity net inflows of $78.4 billion were driven by flows into the Core Series and into funds with broad developed market equity exposures, partially offset by outflows from emerging market products. Record fixed income net inflows of $50.3 billion were diversified across exposures and product lines, led by flows into core, corporate and high yield bond funds.  iShares  multi-asset class and alternatives funds contributed a combined $1.2 billion of net inflows, primarily into core allocation funds.  iShares  represented 25% of long-term AUM at December 31, 2015 and 35% of long-term base fees for 2015.   
 Component changes in  iShares  AUM for 2015 are presented below.  

(1)   
 
 Amounts include commodity  iShares .     

 Our broad  iShares  product range offers investors a precise, transparent and efficient way to tap market returns and gain access to a full range of asset classes and global markets that have been difficult for many investors to access, as well as the liquidity required to make adjustments to their exposures quickly and cost-efficiently.  

U.S. iShares  AUM ended 2015 at $811.4 billion with $97.2 billion of net inflows driven by strong demand for the Core Series and broad developed market equities as well as a diverse range of fixed income products.  2   In 2015, we saw increased investor focus on risk-aware,  smart beta  products, with our minimum volatility funds raising $8.3 billion .     

International iShares  AUM ended 2015 at $281.1 billion with net inflows of $32.7 billion led by fixed income net inflows of $19.2 billion, primarily into yield-focused categories including high yield and investment grade corporate debt.  2   Our international Core Series ranges in Canada and Europe demonstrated solid results in their second year, raising a combined $14.1 billion in net inflows as we continue to expand our international presence among buy-and-hold investors.    

 Institutional  
 BlackRock s institutional AUM is well diversified by both product and region, and we serve institutional investors on six continents in sub-categories including: pensions, endowments and foundations, official institutions, and financial institutions.  

1   
 
 Source: BlackRock; Bloomberg     

2   
 
 Regional  iShares  amounts based on jurisdiction of product, not underlying client     

 4 
 
    Component changes in Institutional   long-term   AUM for 2015 are presented below.   

(1)   
 
 Amounts represent $560 million of AUM acquired in the Infraestructura Institucional acquisition in October 2015.    

  Institutional active   AUM ended 2015 at $962.9 billion, reflecting $26.8 billion of net inflows. Institutional active represented 22% of long-term AUM and 20% of long-term base fees. Growth in AUM reflected continued strength in multi-asset class products with net inflows of $18.4 billion reflecting ongoing demand for solutions offerings and the  LifePath       target-date suite. Our top-performing fixed income platform generated net inflows of $5.7 billion,     diversified across exposures. Alternatives net inflows of $3.1 billion were led by inflows into infrastructure and alternatives solutions offerings. In addition, 2015 was another strong fundraising year for illiquid alternatives, and we raised over $5 billion in new commitments, which will be a source of future net inflows. Equity net outflows of $0.5 billion reflected fundamental net outflows of $2.2 billion, which were partially offset by scientific net inflows of $1.7 billion.    
  Institutional index   AUM totaled $1.739 trillion at December 31, 2015, reflecting net outflows of $43.1 billion. Equity net outflows of $33.7 billion were primarily due to low-fee global and regional index equity outflows as clients looked to re-allocate, re-balance or meet their cash needs. Fixed income net outflows of $10.2 billion were concentrated in local currency mandates, linked to outflows from liability management strategies. Institutional index represented 40% of long-term AUM at December 31, 2015 and accounted for 10% of long-term base fees for 2015.   
 The Company s institutional clients consist of the following:  

Pensions, Foundations and Endowments.  BlackRock is among the world s largest managers of pension plan assets with $1.847 trillion, or 68%, of long-term institutional AUM managed for defined benefit, defined contribution and other pension plans for corporations, governments and unions at December 31, 2015. The market landscape is shifting from defined benefit to defined contribution, driving strong flows in our defined contribution channel, which had $36.2 billion of long-term net inflows for the year, or 6% organic growth, driven by continued demand for our  LifePath  target-date suite. Defined contribution represented $630.9 billion of total pension AUM, and we remain well positioned to capitalize on the on-going evolution of the defined contribution market and demand for outcome-oriented investments. An additional $52.8 billion, or 2% of long-term institutional AUM, was managed for other tax-exempt investors, including charities, foundations and endowments.     

Official Institutions.  We also managed $185.0 billion, or 7%, of long-term institutional AUM for official institutions, including central banks, sovereign wealth funds, supranationals, multilateral entities and government ministries and agencies at year-end 2015. These clients often require specialized investment advice, the use of customized benchmarks and training support.     

Financial and Other Institutions.  BlackRock is a top independent manager of assets for insurance companies, which accounted for $237.7 billion, or 9%, of institutional long-term AUM at year-end 2015. Assets managed for other taxable institutions, including corporations, banks and third-party fund sponsors for which we provide sub-advisory services, totaled $379.4 billion, or 14%, of long-term institutional AUM at year-end.     

 5 
 
    Product Type   
 Component changes in AUM by product type and investment style for 2015 are presented below.  

(1)   
 
 Amounts represent $1.3 billion of AUM acquired in the BKCA acquisition in March 2015, $560 million of AUM acquired in the Infraestructura Institucional acquisition in October 2015 and $366 million of AUM acquired in the FutureAdvisor acquisition in October 2015. The FutureAdvisor acquisition amount does not include AUM that was held in  iShares  holdings.    

 Long-term product offerings include active and index strategies. Our active strategies seek to earn attractive returns in excess of a market benchmark or performance hurdle while maintaining an appropriate risk profile. We offer two types of active strategies: those that rely primarily on fundamental research and those that utilize primarily quantitative models to drive portfolio construction. In contrast, index strategies seek to closely track the returns of a corresponding index, generally by investing in substantially the same underlying securities within the index or in a subset of those securities selected to approximate a similar risk and return profile of the index. Index strategies include both our non-ETF index products and  iShares  ETFs.  
 Although many clients use both active and index strategies, the application of these strategies may differ. For example, clients may use index products to gain exposure to a market or asset class. In addition, institutional non-ETF index assignments tend to be very large (multi-billion dollars) and typically reflect low fee rates. This has the potential to exaggerate the significance of net flows in institutional index products on BlackRock s revenues and earnings.  
 Equity  
 Year-end 2015 equity AUM totaled $2.424 trillion, reflecting net inflows of $52.8 billion. Net inflows included $78.4 billion and $4.2 billion into  iShares  and active products, respectively.  iShares  net inflows were driven by the Core Series and flows into broad developed market equity exposures, and active net inflows reflected demand for international equities.   iShares  and active net inflows were partially offset by non-ETF index net outflows of $29.8 billion.   
 BlackRock s effective fee rates fluctuate due to changes in AUM mix. Approximately half of BlackRock s equity AUM is tied to international markets, including emerging markets, which tend to have higher fee rates than U.S. equity strategies. Accordingly, fluctuations in international equity markets, which do not consistently move in tandem with U.S. markets, may have a greater impact on BlackRock s effective equity fee rates and revenues.  
 Fixed Income  
 Fixed income AUM ended 2015 at $1.422 trillion, increasing $28.7 billion, or 2%, from December 31, 2014. The increase in AUM reflected $76.9 billion in net inflows, partially offset by $48.2 billion in net market depreciation and foreign exchange movements. In 2015, active net inflows of $35.9 billion were diversified across fixed income offerings, with strong flows into our unconstrained, total return and high yield strategies. Flagship funds in these product areas include our unconstrained Strategic Income Opportunities and Fixed Income Strategies funds, with net inflows of $7.0 billion and $3.7 billion, respectively; our Total Return fund with net inflows of $2.7 billion; and our High Yield Bond fund with net inflows of $3.5 billion. Fixed income  iShares  net inflows of $50.3 billion were led by flows into core, corporate and high yield bond funds.  Active and  iShares  net inflows were partially offset by non-ETF index net outflows of $9.3 billion.  
 Multi-Asset Class  
 BlackRock s multi-asset class team manages a variety of balanced funds and bespoke mandates for a diversified client base that leverages our broad investment expertise in global equities, bonds, currencies and commodities, and our extensive risk management capabilities. Investment solutions might include a combination of long-only portfolios and alternative investments as well as tactical asset allocation overlays.  
 6 
 
    Component changes in multi-asset class AUM for 2015 are presented below.  

(1)   
 
 Amounts represent $366 million of AUM acquired in the FutureAdvisor acquisition in October 2015. The FutureAdvisor acquisition amount does not include AUM that was held in  iShares  holdings.    

 Multi-asset class net inflows reflected ongoing institutional demand for our solutions-based advice with $17.4 billion of net inflows coming from institutional clients. Defined contribution plans of institutional clients remained a significant driver of flows, and contributed $7.3 billion to institutional multi-asset class net new business in 2015, primarily into target date and target risk product offerings. Retail net outflows of $1.3 billion were primarily due to a large single-client transition out of mutual funds into a series of  iShares  across asset classes. Notwithstanding this transition, retail flows reflected demand for our Multi-Asset Income fund family, which raised $4.6 billion in 2015. 
 The Company s multi-asset class strategies include the following:  

Asset allocation and balanced products  represented 49% of multi-asset class AUM at year-end, with growth in AUM driven by net new business of $12.9 billion. These strategies combine equity, fixed income and alternative components for investors seeking a tailored solution relative to a specific benchmark and within a risk budget. In certain cases, these strategies seek to minimize downside risk through diversification, derivatives strategies and tactical asset allocation decisions. Flagship products in this category include our Global Allocation and Multi-Asset Income suites.        

Target date and target risk product  flows were impacted by a large single-client transition out of mutual funds into a series of  iShares  across asset classes. Institutional investors represented 95% of target date and target risk AUM, with defined contribution plans accounting for over 88% of AUM. Flows were driven by defined contribution investments in our  LifePath  and  LifePath Retirement Income       offerings.  LifePath  products utilize a proprietary asset allocation model that seeks to balance risk and return over an investment horizon based on the investor s expected retirement timing.     

Fiduciary management services  are complex mandates in which pension plan sponsors or endowments and foundations retain BlackRock to assume responsibility for some or all aspects of plan management. These customized services require strong partnership with the clients  investment staff and trustees in order to tailor investment strategies to meet client-specific risk budgets and return objectives.     

FutureAdvisor  is a leading digital wealth management platform, acquired by BlackRock in October 2015. FutureAdvisor operates as a service within BRS, providing financial institutions with high quality, technology-enabled advice capabilities to improve their clients  investment experience. As consumers increasingly engage with technology to invest, BlackRock and FutureAdvisor are positioned to empower distribution partners to better serve their clients by combining FutureAdvisor s high-quality technology-enabled advice with BlackRock s multi-asset investment capabilities, proprietary technology and risk analytics    

 Alternatives  
 BlackRock Alternative Investors ( BAI ) focuses on sourcing and managing high-alpha investments with lower correlation to public markets and developing a holistic approach to address client needs in alternatives investing. Our alternatives products fall into two main categories   1) core, and 2) currency and commodities. Core includes alternative solutions, direct hedge funds, hedge fund and private equity solutions (funds of funds), opportunistic private equity and credit, real estate and infrastructure offerings. The products offered under the BAI umbrella are described below.  
 In 2015, BlackRock returned $3.3 billion of capital to investors, which is included in outflows. In addition, we raised $5.7 billion of new commitments in 2015 across a variety of strategies, including private equity solutions, opportunistic credit, alternative solutions, real estate and infrastructure. At year-end, we had $10.9 billion of non-fee paying, unfunded commitments, which are expected to be deployed in future years; these commitments are not included in AUM until they are invested.  
 We believe that as alternatives become more conventional and investors adapt their asset allocation strategies, investors will further increase their use of alternative investments to complement core holdings.  As a top ten alternative provider  3   our highly diversified $112.8 billion alternatives franchise is well positioned to meet growing demand from both institutional and retail investors.  

7 
 
    Component changes in alternatives AUM for 2015 are presented   in the table   below.   

(1)    
 
 Amounts represent $1.3 billion of AUM acquired in the BKCA acquisition in March 2015 and $560 million of AUM acquired in the Infraestructura Institucional acquisition in October 2015.    

(2)   
 
 Return of capital is included in outflows.     

 Core.  

Alternative Solutions  represent holistic, highly customized portfolios of alternative investments. In 2015, alternative solutions portfolios had $1.4 billion of net inflows.     

Hedge Funds  net inflows of $0.1 billion were led by net inflows of $0.5 billion into hedge fund solutions, our funds of hedge funds offering, partially offset by $0.4 billion of net outflows from direct hedge funds. Direct hedge fund AUM includes a variety of single- and multi-strategy offerings.     

Illiquid and Opportunistic  AUM included $12.4 billion in private equity solutions and $2.4 billion in opportunistic private equity and credit offerings. Net inflows of $1.0 billion were predominantly into private equity solutions.  Our acquisition of certain assets of BKCA further enhanced our credit platform through the addition of a middle market, private credit capability.     

Real Assets  AUM totaled $24.3 billion, up $1.5 billion, or 7%. Real assets, which include infrastructure and real estate, saw net inflows of $1.7 billion. In 2015, we continued to build our infrastructure capabilities through the acquisition of Infraestructura Institucional, a leading infrastructure investment business in Mexico. This acquisition advances our growth strategy in Mexico and Latin America and furthers our commitment to being a leader in infrastructure investing.    

Currency and Commodities.  
 AUM in currency and commodities declined 11% from year-end 2014, reflecting portfolio valuation declines of $3.5 billion. Currency and commodities products include a range of active and passive products. Our  iShares  commodities products represented $12.5 billion of AUM and are not eligible for performance fees. 
 Cash Management  
 Cash management AUM totaled $299.9 billion at December 31, 2015, up $3.5 billion, or 1%, from year-end 2014. Cash management products include taxable and tax-exempt money market funds and customized separate accounts. Portfolios are denominated in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Australian dollars, Euros or British pounds. We generated net inflows of $7.5 billion during 2015, a period marked by a near zero interest rate environment. BlackRock is working to bring all U.S. money market funds into full compliance with new regulatory requirements in advance of the 2016 deadlines, and is actively repurposing and streamlining our product lineup to meet the future requirements of clients.  In Europe, we continue to be a market leader highlighted by our implementation of the reverse distribution mechanism in our euro funds when faced with negative rates.  In November 2015, BlackRock and Bank of America s asset management business, BofA Global Capital Management ( BACM ) entered into an agreement to transfer to BlackRock investment management responsibilities for approximately $87 billion of AUM in cash products currently managed by BACM.  The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2016, subject to customary approvals and closing conditions.  
 Client Region  
 Our footprints in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions reflect strong relationships with intermediaries and an established ability to deliver our global investment expertise in funds and other products tailored to local regulations and requirements.  
 8 
 
    AUM by product type and client region at December 31, 2015 is presented below.   

Component changes in AUM by client region for 2015 are presented below. 

(1)   
 
 Amounts represent $1.3 billion of AUM acquired in the BKCA acquisition in March 2015, $560 million of AUM acquired in the Infraestructura Institucional acquisition in October 2015 and $366 million of AUM acquired in the FutureAdvisor acquisition in October 2015. The FutureAdvisor acquisition amount does not include AUM that was held in  iShares  holdings.    

Americas.  
 Long-term net new business of $144.6 billion was positive across all asset classes, with net inflows of $84.6 billion, $49.7 billion, $6.3 billion and $4.0  billion in equity, fixed income, multi-asset class and alternatives products, respectively. During the year, we served clients through offices in 31 states in the United States as well as Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Spain.  
 EMEA.  
 During the year, clients awarded us long-term net new business of $8.7 billion, including inflows from investors in 23 countries across the region. EMEA net new business was led by fixed income net inflows of $10.8 billion, reflecting strong flows into  iShares  and unconstrained fixed income. Our offerings include fund families in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Dublin and  iShares  listed on stock exchanges throughout Europe as well as separate accounts and pooled investment products.  
 Asia-Pacific.  
 Clients in the Asia-Pacific region are served through offices in Japan, Australia, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, Korea, China, and  India. Long-term net outflows of $1.3 billion were due to equity net outflows of $20.2 billion, primarily from institutional index mandates. Fixed income, multi-asset class and alternatives saw net inflows of $16.5 billion, $2.3 billion and $0.1 billion, respectively.  

Investment Performance  
 Investment performance across active and passive products as of December 31, 2015 was as follows:  

Product Performance Notes . Past performance is not indicative of future results. Except as specified, the performance information shown is as of December 31, 2015 and is based on preliminary data available at that time. The performance data shown reflects information for all actively and passively managed equity and fixed income accounts, including U.S. registered investment companies, European-domiciled retail funds and separate accounts for which performance data is available, including performance data for high net worth accounts available as of November 30, 2015. The performance data does not include accounts terminated prior to December 31, 2015 and accounts for which data has not yet been verified. If such accounts had been included, the performance data provided may have substantially differed from that shown.   
   Performance comparisons shown are gross-of-fees for institutional and high net worth separate accounts, and net-of-fees for retail funds. The performance tracking shown for index accounts is based on gross-of-fees performance and includes all institutional accounts and all  iShares  funds globally using an index strategy. AUM information is based on AUM available as of December 31, 2015 for each account or fund in the  
 9 
 
  asset class shown without adjustment   for overlapping management of the same account or fund. Fund performance reflects the reinvestment of dividends and distributions.   
 Source of performance information and peer medians is BlackRock, Inc. and is based in part on data from Lipper Inc. for U.S. funds and Morningstar, Inc. for non-U.S. funds.  
 BlackRock Solutions  
 BRS offers investment management technology systems, risk management services and advisory services on a fee basis.  Aladdin  is our proprietary technology platform, which serves as the risk management system for both BlackRock and a growing number of sophisticated institutional investors around the world. BRS also offers comprehensive risk reporting capabilities via the Green Package  and risk management advisory services; interactive fixed income analytics through our web-based calculator, AnSer  middle and back office outsourcing services; and investment accounting. BRS  Financial Markets Advisory ( FMA ) group advises global financial institutions, regulators, and government entities on complex financial and risk issues though core competencies across capital markets, data analysis and modeling; strategic advice regarding regulatory compliance, risk management, business transformations and transaction support; and integrated project management. FutureAdvisor, acquired by BlackRock in 2015, is a digital wealth management platform operating within BRS that provides financial institutions with high quality, technology-enabled advice capabilities to improve their clients  investment experience.  
 BRS record revenues of $646 million were up 2% year-over-year.   Aladdin , which represented 82% of BRS revenue for the year, continues to benefit from trends favoring global investment platform consolidation and multi-asset risk solutions.  Aladdin  assignments are typically long-term contracts that provide significant recurring revenue.  
 Our FMA group continued to post solid revenues, even as the business transitions from a  crisis management  emphasis to a more institutionalized advisory business model, with a strong focus on helping clients navigate and implement requirements for the evolving regulatory environment. Advisory AUM decreased to $10.2 billion, driven by $9.6 billion of planned client distributions reflecting our continued success in disposing of assets for clients at, or above, targeted levels.  
 At year-end, BRS served clients, including banks, insurance companies, official institutions, pension funds, asset managers and other institutional investors across North America, Europe, Asia and Australia.  
 Securities Lending  
 Securities lending is managed by a dedicated team, supported by quantitative analysis, proprietary technology and disciplined risk management. BlackRock receives both cash (primarily for U.S. domiciled portfolios) and noncash collateral under securities lending arrangements. The cash management team invests the cash we receive as collateral for securities on loan in other portfolios. Fees for securities lending for U.S. domiciled portfolios can be structured as a share of earnings, or as a management fee based on a percentage of the value of the cash collateral or both. The value of the securities on loan and the revenue earned are captured in the corresponding asset class being managed. The value of the collateral is not included in AUM.  
 Outstanding loan balances ended the year at approximately $218 billion, up from $187 billion at year-end 2014. Liability spreads were generally flat compared to 2014 levels.  
 BlackRock employs a conservative investment style for cash and securities lending collateral that emphasizes quality, liquidity and interest rate risk management. Disciplined risk management, including a rigorous credit surveillance process, is an integral part of the investment process. BlackRock s Cash Management Credit Committee has established risk limits, such as aggregate issuer exposure limits and maturity limits, across many of the products BlackRock manages, including over all of its cash management products. In the ordinary course of our business, there may be instances when a portfolio may exceed an internal risk limit or when an internal risk limit may be changed. No such instances, individually or in the aggregate, have been material to the Company. To the extent that daily evaluation and reporting of the profile of the portfolios identify that a limit has been exceeded, the relevant portfolio will be adjusted. To the extent a portfolio manager would like to obtain a temporary waiver of a risk limit, the portfolio manager must obtain approval from the credit research team, which is independent from the cash management portfolio managers. While a risk limit may be waived temporarily, such waivers are infrequent.  
 Risk   Quantitative Analysis  
 Across all asset classes, in addition to the efforts of the portfolio management teams, the Risk   Quantitative Analysis ( RQA ) group at BlackRock draws on extensive analytical systems and proprietary and third-party data to identify, measure and manage a wide range of risks. RQA provides risk management advice and independent risk oversight of the investment management processes, identifies and helps manage counterparty and operational risks, coordinates standards for firm wide investment performance measurement and determines risk management-related analytical and information requirements. Where appropriate, RQA will work with portfolio managers and developers to facilitate the development or improvement of risk models and analytics.  

COMPETITION  
 BlackRock competes with investment management firms, mutual fund complexes, insurance companies, banks, brokerage firms and other financial institutions that offer products that are similar to, or alternatives to, those offered by BlackRock. In order to grow its business, BlackRock must be able to compete effectively for AUM. Key competitive factors include investment performance track records, the efficient delivery of beta for index products, investment style and discipline, client service and brand name recognition. Historically, the Company has competed principally on the basis of its long-term investment performance track record, its investment process, its risk management and analytic capabilities and the quality of its client service.  
 10 
 
    Geographic Information   
 At December 31, 2015, BlackRock served clients in more than 100 countries across the globe, including the United States, the United Kingdom and Japan. See Note 22,  Segment Information , contained in Part II, Item 8 of this filing for more information.  
 Employees  
 At December 31, 2015, BlackRock had a total of approximately 13,000 employees, including approximately 6,200 located in offices outside the United States. Consistent with our commitment to continually expand and enhance our talent base to support our clients, we added approximately 800 employees during the year, including in strategic focus areas. 
   
 REGULATION  
 Virtually all aspects of BlackRock s business are subject to various laws and regulations around the world, some of which are summarized below. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investment advisory clients, investors in registered and unregistered investment companies, trust customers of BlackRock Institutional Trust Company, N.A. ( BTC ), PNC and its bank subsidiaries and their customers and the financial system. Under these laws and regulations, agencies that regulate investment advisers, investment funds and bank holding companies and other individuals and entities have broad administrative powers, including the power to limit, restrict or prohibit the regulated entity or person from carrying on business if it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Possible sanctions for significant compliance failures include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain lines of business for specified periods of time, revocation of investment adviser and other registrations, censures and fines both for individuals and BlackRock.  
 The rules governing the regulation of financial institutions and their holding companies and subsidiaries are very detailed and technical. Accordingly, the discussion below is general in nature, does not purport to be complete and is current only as of the date of this report.  
 GLOBAL REGULATORY REFORM  
 BlackRock is subject to numerous regulatory reform initiatives around the world. Any such initiative, or any new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could materially and adversely impact the scope or profitability of BlackRock s business activities, lead to business disruptions, require BlackRock to alter its business or operating activities and expose BlackRock to additional costs (including compliance and legal costs) as well as reputational harm. BlackRock s profitability also could be materially and adversely affected by modification of the rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities in general, including changes to the laws governing banking, taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce.  
 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act  
 In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  DFA ) was signed into law in the U.S. The DFA is expansive in scope and requires the adoption of extensive regulations and numerous regulatory decisions, many of which have been adopted. BlackRock has commenced a conformance program to address certain regulations adopted under the DFA, as well as financial reforms that have been introduced as part of the SEC s investment company modernization initiatives.  The cost of these initial conformance activities have been absorbed by BlackRock; however, as the full extent of the DFA and other rules will only become evident over time, it is not yet possible to predict the ultimate effects that the DFA, or subsequent implementing regulations and decisions, will have upon BlackRock s business, financial condition, and operating activities.  
 Systemically Important Financial Institution Review  
 Both the Financial Stability Board ( FSB ) working with the International Organization of Securities Commissions ( IOSCO ) and the Financial Stability Oversight Council ( FSOC ) are considering potential systemic risk related to asset management.  In July 2014, the FSOC issued a statement indicating that their review would focus on products and activities, and FSOC subsequently released a request for information addressing: market liquidity and fund redemption risk, the use of leverage, operational risk, and the resolution of asset managers including the transition of client assets. In June 2015, IOSCO issued a statement indicating they also favored a products and activities approach in their review of asset managers, and in July 2015, the FSB made a similar announcement.  In September 2015, the FSB released a statement indicating that their review would focus on: market liquidity and fund redemption risk, the use of leverage, securities lending practices, operational risk, and risks from pension funds and sovereign wealth funds. 
 Although FSOC, IOSCO and FSB have shifted from a focus on designating firms and/or funds as systemically important (i.e., G-SIFI or SIFI designations), the process is ongoing and may lead to designations in the future.  In the event that BlackRock receives a SIFI designation, under the DFA, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ) is charged with establishing enhanced regulatory requirements for nonbank financial institutions and BlackRock could become subject to direct supervision by the Federal Reserve.  If BlackRock was designated a SIFI or G-SIFI, it could become subject to enhanced prudential, capital, supervisory and other requirements, such as risk-based capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, resolution plan and credit exposure report requirements, concentration limits, a contingent capital requirement, enhanced public disclosures, short-term debt limits and overall risk management requirements. Requirements such as these, which were designed to regulate banking institutions, would be extremely burdensome for BlackRock, unless they were modified to be applicable to an asset manager. No proposals have been made indicating how such measures would be adapted for asset managers, if at all.  
 Securities and Exchange Commission Review of Asset Managers  
   BlackRock s business may also be impacted by Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) regulatory initiatives. The SEC and its staff continue to engage in various initiatives and reviews that seek to improve and modernize the regulatory structure governing the asset management industry, and registered investment companies in particular. During 2015, the SEC proposed, among other things: enhanced reporting by investment advisors, enhanced reporting on registered mutual funds, new rules for liquidity risk management in registered funds, and new rules governing the use of derivatives and leverage by registered investment companies and business development companies. Furthermore, in June 2015, the SEC issued a request for comments regarding practices related to exchange-traded funds ( ETFs ), which is  
 11 
 
  widely expected to result in a future rulemaking.  The SEC has also indicated an intention to propose new rules for the stress testing of   registered investment companies and transition planning by asset managers, including the transfer of client assets.    The SEC s focus has also been directed toward risk identification and controls in various areas, including the use of derivatives and other   trading practices   (as reflected in the SEC s late December 2015 rule proposal described more particularly under        Regulation of Swaps and Derivatives below  )  , cyber-security and the evaluation of systemic risks.   While these proposals have yet to be finali  zed into new rules, a  ny new rules, guidance or regulatory initiatives resulting from these efforts could   expose BlackRock to additional compliance   and reporting   costs and may require the Company to change how it operates its business   or manages funds  .     
 Money Market Fund Reform  
 In July 2014, the SEC adopted new rules designed to reform the regulatory structure governing money market funds ( MMFs ) and to address the perceived systemic risks that such funds present. The new rules, to which U.S. MMFs must conform by October 2016, require institutional prime and institutional municipal MMFs to employ a floating net asset value per share method of pricing, which allows the daily share prices of these funds to fluctuate along with changes in the market-based value of fund assets. Retail MMFs may continue operating with a constant net asset value per share.  The rules also provide for new tools for institutional and retail MMFs  boards designed to address market shocks, including liquidity fees and redemption gates. The new rules do not apply to government (non-municipal) MMFs, although such funds may  opt-in  to the new liquidity fee and redemption gate provisions if previously disclosed to investors. Implementation of these new rules requires the development of new or additional systems by BlackRock and the funds  service providers.  BlackRock has commenced efforts to move its MMFs into compliance in advance of the deadline.  The impact of the rules that affect the structure of the funds on BlackRock s business remains uncertain as clients must decide which products fit their investment needs.  The new rules will, however, affect certain of BlackRock s funds  investment strategies, portfolio liquidity and return potential.  The new rules will also result in changes to BlackRock s existing U.S. MMFs and may reduce the attractiveness of certain U.S. MMFs to investors. 
 Regulation of Swaps and Derivatives  
 The SEC, the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ) each continue to review practices and regulations relating to the use of futures, swaps and other derivatives.  Such reviews could result in regulations that restrict or limit the use of such products by funds or accounts. If adopted, these limitations could require BlackRock to change certain business practices or implement new reporting or compliance processes, which could result in additional costs and/or restrictions. In December 2015, the SEC proposed a new rule governing the use of derivatives and other financial commitment transactions by investment companies that, if enacted, would represent a fundamental change in the nature of the SEC's regulations governing the use of derivatives and other financial commitment transactions by investment companies. This proposal has the potential to require BlackRock to change or restrict certain investment strategies or practices for some investment companies and incur additional costs. In some circumstances the proposed rule could make certain products less competitive with other investment options in the marketplace, which could negatively impact assets under management.   
 Further, the full implementation of regulations under the DFA and similar regulations in the European Union ( EU )  and other global jurisdictions relating to regulation of swaps and derivatives could impact the manner in which BlackRock-advised funds and accounts use and trade swaps and other derivatives, increasing the costs of derivatives trading for BlackRock s clients. For example, various global rules and regulations applicable to the use of financial products by funds, accounts and counterparties that have been adopted or proposed will require BlackRock to build and implement new compliance monitoring procedures to address the enhanced level of oversight to which it and its clients will be subject. These rules also introduce new requirements for centrally clearing certain swaps transactions and for executing certain swaps transactions on or through CFTC or SEC-registered trading venues (as opposed to over the phone or other execution methods).  
 Jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which BlackRock operates also have adopted and implemented, or are in the process of considering, adopting or implementing more pervasive regulation of many elements of the financial services industry, which could further impact BlackRock and the broader markets. This includes the implementation of mandated central clearing of swaps in the EU and the implementation of trade reporting, documentation, central clearing and other requirements in various jurisdictions globally.  
 In the United States, certain interest rate swaps and certain index credit default swaps are already subject to the DFA central clearing and electronic trading venue requirements, with additional products and asset classes potentially becoming subject to these requirements in 2016 and beyond.  For swaps and security-based swaps that are not centrally cleared, U.S. bank regulators recently adopted rules that could require BlackRock-advised funds and accounts to post margin payments when trading with a swap dealer that is regulated by one of the U.S. bank regulators.  The CFTC also recently adopted similar margin rules applicable when trading non-cleared swaps with swap dealers who are not regulated by one of the U.S. bank regulators.  These rules have the potential to increase the complexity and cost of trading non-cleared derivatives for BlackRock's clients. In EMEA, central clearing requirements will be implemented in a phased manner and will apply to BlackRock funds and accounts beginning in the latter half of 2016. The new rules and regulations may produce regulatory inconsistencies in global derivatives trading rules and increase BlackRock s operational and legal risks. 
 Regulation of Exchange Traded Funds  
 As a result of recent market volatility, regulators globally are examining the potential risks in ETFs, including those related to transparency, liquidity and structural resiliency. BlackRock and other large issuers of ETFs are working with market participants and regulators to address certain of these issues but there can be no assurance that structural or regulatory reforms will be implemented in a manner favorable to BlackRock, or at all.  Depending on the outcome of this renewed regulatory analysis, or any associated structural reforms, ETF products may become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny or restrictions, which may require BlackRock to incur additional compliance and reporting expenses and adversely affect the Company s business. 
 Taxation  
   BlackRock s businesses may be affected by new tax legislation or regulations, or the modification of existing tax laws, regulations and rulings, by U.S. or non-U.S. authorities. In particular, BlackRock may be impacted by the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act ( FATCA ) and the Common Reporting Standard ( CRS ) which have introduced new investor onboarding, withholding and reporting rules aimed at ensuring persons with financial assets outside of the their tax residence country pay appropriate taxes. FATCA and CRS rules will impact both U.S. and  
 12 
 
  non-U.S. funds and subject BlackRock to additional administrative burdens. In many instances, bilateral Intergovernmental Agreements ( IGAs ) between the U.S. and the countries in which BlackRock does business will g  overn implementation of the new rules. While many of these IGAs have been put into place, others have yet to be concluded.   
 The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development ( OECD ) has also launched a base erosion and profit shifting ( BEPS ) proposal that aims to rationalize tax treatment across jurisdictions. In October 2015, the OECD released its final BEPS package in an effort to curb the use of certain tax regimes and elements of tax planning, primarily in a cross-border context. The final package was endorsed by the G20 and is subject to implementation. In addition, in January 2016, the European Commission announced an Anti-Tax Avoidance Package ( EU Package ) for consideration by the European Parliament and Council, containing measures to regulate certain elements of tax planning and to boost tax transparency. Once implemented, the BEPS package and the EU Package could curtail the amount of investments channeled by, and have unintended taxation consequences for funds as well as BlackRock s overall tax position, which could adversely affect BlackRock s financial condition and that of its clients. 
 In addition, certain EU Member States, such as France and Italy, have enacted financial transaction taxes ( FTTs ) which impose taxation on a broad range of financial instruments and derivatives transactions. Several other Member States continue to discuss introducing FTTs. In general, any tax on securities and derivatives transactions would impact investors and would likely have a negative impact on the liquidity of the securities and derivatives markets, could diminish the attractiveness of certain types of products that BlackRock manages in those countries and could cause clients to shift assets away from such products. An FTT could significantly increase the operational costs of BlackRock entering into, on behalf of its clients, securities and derivatives transactions that would be subjected to an FTT, which could adversely impact BlackRock s financial results and clients  performance results. 
 Lastly, the application of tax regulations involves numerous uncertainties and, in the normal course of business, U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities may review and challenge BlackRock s historical tax positions. These challenges may result in adjustments to BlackRock s tax position, or impact the timing or amount of taxable income, deductions or other tax allocations, which may adversely affect BlackRock s effective tax rate and overall financial condition.  
 Volcker Rule  
 Provisions of the DFA referred to as the  Volcker Rule  place limitations on the ability of banks and their subsidiaries to engage in proprietary trading and to invest in and transact with certain private investment funds, including hedge funds, private equity funds and funds of funds (collectively  covered funds ). Because the Federal Reserve currently treats BlackRock as a nonbank subsidiary of PNC, BlackRock may be required to conform its activities to the requirements of the Volcker Rule. On December 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve announced a second extension to the Volcker Rule conformance period, giving banking entities until July 21, 2016, to conform investments in and relationships with covered funds and foreign funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013 ( legacy covered funds ). The Federal Reserve also announced its intention to grant banking entities an additional one-year extension of the conformance period until July 21, 2017, to conform ownership interests in and relationships with these legacy covered funds.  The Volcker Rule s restrictions may, among other things, limit BlackRock s ability to invest in covered funds and require BlackRock to remove its name from the names of its covered funds, which could subject BlackRock to additional expense. The Volcker Rule may also require BlackRock to sell certain seed and co-investments that it holds in covered funds which may occur at a discount to existing carrying value, depending on market conditions. The Volcker Rule may also reduce the level of market making and liquidity activities of several of BlackRock s trading counterparties, which may adversely impact the liquidity and, in some cases, the pricing of various financial instruments in which BlackRock client accounts invest. For a further discussion of the Volcker Rule, see  Item 1A   Risk Factors   Legal and Regulatory Risks.   
 Revised Department of Labor ( DoL ) Fiduciary Rule 
 In April 2015, the DoL proposed a new regulation defining the term "fiduciary" for purposes of the fiduciary responsibility provisions of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) and the prohibited transaction exercise tax provisions of the IRS. The rule has been highly criticized by industry participants, particularly retail intermediaries, and BlackRock is engaging with the DoL, trade associations and industry participants in an effort to affect revisions to the proposed rule. To the extent the rule is enacted as written, it will require BlackRock to re-paper a number of its distribution relationships, create compliance and operational challenges for BlackRock s distribution partners and may limit BlackRock s ability to provide certain useful services and education to its clients.   
 Markets in Financial Instruments Directives  
 BlackRock is also subject to numerous regulatory reform initiatives in Europe.  For example, in the EU rules and regulations made under the current Markets in Financial Instruments Directive ( MiFID ) regime (described more particularly under    European Regulation  below) are in the process of being revised through implementation of the  MiFID II  package of measures made up of a recast Directive and a new Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation.  MiFID II, which was originally scheduled to come into effect in January 2017, but is now scheduled to come into effect in January 2018, will be implemented through a number of Implementing and Regulatory Technical Standards to be made through Delegated Acts made by the European Commission following advice from the European Securities and Markets Authority ( ESMA ). MiFID II will build upon many of the measures introduced by MiFID, and will extend investor protection, trading transparency, clearing and trading venue access and reporting requirements. It is expected that MiFID II will have significant and wide-ranging impacts on EU securities and derivatives markets. In particular, there will be (i) enhanced governance and investor protection standards, (ii) prescriptive rules on portfolio management firms  ability to receive and pay for investment research relating to all asset classes, (iii) enhanced regulation of algorithmic trading, (iv) the movement of trading in certain shares and derivatives on to regulated execution venues, (v) the extension of pre- and post-trade transparency requirements to wider categories of financial instruments, (vi) restrictions on the use of so-called dark pool trading, (vii) the creation of a new type of trading venue called the Organized Trading Facility for non-equity financial instruments, (viii) commodity derivative position limits and reporting requirements, (ix) a move away from vertical silos in execution, clearing and settlement, (x) an enhanced role for ESMA in supervising EU securities and derivatives markets and (xi) new requirements regarding non-EU investment firms  access to EU financial markets. Implementation of these measures will have direct and indirect impacts on BlackRock and its subsidiaries and may require significant changes to client servicing models.  A significant number of the impacts are yet to be determined because MiFID II contains a wide ranging and complex set of measures.  
 13 
 
    Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities   
 The EU has also adopted directives on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( UCITS ). The latest initiative in this area, UCITS V seeks to align the UCITS depositary regime, UCITS remuneration rules and regulators  power to sanction for breaches of the UCITS Directive with the requirements of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive ( AIFMD ). UCITS V is required to be adopted in the national law of each EU member state by March 18, 2016 though further implementing measures will only become effective in late 2016. Compliance with the updated UCITS directive will subject BlackRock to additional expenses associated with new depositary oversight and other organizational requirements.  
 Reform of European Retail Distribution  
 BlackRock must also comply with retail distribution rules aimed at enhancing consumer protections, overhauling mutual fund fee structures by banning the payment of commissions to distributors and increasing professionalism in the retail investment sector. The rules were originally introduced in the United Kingdom in 2012 and similar rules have since been introduced in other jurisdictions where BlackRock operates such as the Netherlands, and are under discussion elsewhere. Similarly, MiFID II will contain a ban on certain advisers recovering commissions and other nonmonetary benefits from fund managers. These rules will lead to greater fragmentation of distribution rules and may lead to changes to BlackRock s client servicing and distribution models, in particular affecting the fees BlackRock is able to charge to its clients and the commissions it is able to pay to its distribution partners.  
 EU Benchmarks Regulation  
 Political agreement on the EU Benchmarks Regulation was reached at the end of 2015. The Regulation provides the legislative framework to implement the 2013 IOSCO Principles for Financial Benchmarks.  The scope of the Regulation is broad as it includes submission based benchmarks through to transaction based market indices. Proportionality is applied to create a stricter framework for the systemically relevant benchmarks such as LIBOR and EURIBOR. Although the Regulation creates a number of obligations on administrators of, and submitters to, benchmarks, it is less extensive as regards the obligations of users of benchmarks, such as asset managers. The Regulation formalizes due diligence procedures for users and implies other additional administrative requirements of users of third-party benchmarks. Managers using third-party and/or bespoke benchmarks to assess fund performance are also caught by the Regulation. It is expected that detailed rule-making underpinning the Regulation's framework will be developed during 2016 and implemented beginning in 2018. While it is not yet possible to assess the full effect of the Regulation on BlackRock's business, it may impose additional administrative and due diligence requirements on the Company, the burden of which is likely to increase as BlackRock makes additional enhancements to its indexing business. 
 Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ( FinCEN ) Proposed Rulemaking for Registered Investment Advisers 
 FinCEN has issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking ( Proposed Rule ) that would extend to a number of BlackRock s subsidiaries, which are registered or required to be registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the  Advisers Act ), the requirement to establish anti-money laundering programs and report suspicious activity to FinCEN under the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (the  Bank Secrecy Act ).  The Proposed Rule would extend to those BlackRock subsidiaries captured within the Bank Secrecy Act s definition of  financial institutions , which would require them to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act reporting and recordkeeping requirements.  If enacted in its current form, the Proposed Rule would expose BlackRock to additional compliance costs.  
 Financial Conduct Authority ( FCA ) Asset Management Market Survey 
 As part of its strategic priorities, the FCA is undertaking a market study into the asset management sector. The aim of this study is to understand whether competition is working effectively to enable both institutional and retail investors to get value for money when purchasing asset management services. The FCA is interested in understanding whether there are any barriers to innovation or technological advances which may be preventing new ways of doing business that could benefit investors (Fintech). If the FCA concludes that competition is not working well, the FCA may intervene through rule-making, introducing firm-specific remedies or enforcement action, publishing general guidance or proposing enhanced industry self-regulation. BlackRock is one of 40 firms included in the study and is currently responding to an information request that consists of qualitative and quantitative data. The FCA is aiming to engage with firms throughout 2016 with the proposal to issue a draft report to the industry in the summer of 2016. The FCA expect to publish their final report in early 2017.  
 EXISTING U.S. REGULATION - OVERVIEW  
 BlackRock and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries are currently subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the federal level, by the SEC, the DoL, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ), the National Futures Association ( NFA ), the CFTC and other government agencies and regulatory bodies. Certain of BlackRock s U.S. subsidiaries are also subject to various anti-terrorist financing, privacy, anti-money laundering regulations and economic sanctions laws and regulations established by various agencies.  
 The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers such as BlackRock, including record-keeping, operational and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act of 1940 (the  Investment Company Act ) imposes stringent governance, compliance, operational, disclosure and related obligations on registered investment companies and their investment advisers and distributors, such as BlackRock and its affiliated companies. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser s registration. Investment advisers also are subject to certain state securities laws and regulations. Non-compliance with the Advisers Act, the Investment Company Act or other federal and state securities laws and regulations could result in investigations, sanctions, disgorgement, fines and reputational damage.  
   BlackRock s trading and investment activities for client accounts are regulated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ), as well as the rules of various securities exchanges and self-regulatory organizations, including laws governing trading on inside information, market manipulation and a broad number of technical requirements (e.g., short sale limits, volume limitations and reporting obligations) and market regulation policies. Violation of any of these laws and regulations could result in restrictions on BlackRock s activities and damage its  
 14 
 
  reputation. Furthermore, one of BlackRock s subsidiaries, BTC, was required to register as a municipal advisor (as that term is defined in the statute) with the SEC and Municipal Securities Rulemaking Boar  d ( MSRB ) as a result of SEC rules giving effect to a section of the DFA requiring such registration. The rules subject BTC to new and additional regulation by the SEC and MSRB.  
 BlackRock manages a variety of private pools of capital, including hedge funds, funds of hedge funds, private equity funds, collateralized debt obligations ( CDOs ), collateralized loan obligations ( CLOs ), real estate funds, collective investment trusts, managed futures funds and hybrid funds. Congress, regulators, tax authorities and others continue to explore, on their own and in response to demands from the investment community and the public, increased regulation related to private pools of capital, including changes with respect to investor eligibility, certain limitations on trading activities, record-keeping and reporting, the scope of anti-fraud protections, safekeeping of client assets and a variety of other matters. BlackRock may be materially and adversely affected by new legislation, rule-making or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing rules and regulations imposed by various regulators in this area.  
 Certain BlackRock subsidiaries are subject to ERISA, and to regulations promulgated thereunder by the DoL, insofar as they act as a  fiduciary  under Title I of ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose certain duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit certain transactions involving ERISA plan clients and impose excise taxes for violations of these prohibitions, mandate certain required periodic reporting and disclosures and require certain BlackRock entities to carry bonds insuring against losses caused by fraud or dishonesty. ERISA also imposes additional compliance, reporting and operational requirements on BlackRock that otherwise are not applicable to non-benefit plan clients.  
 BlackRock has seven subsidiaries that are registered as commodity pool operators ( CPOs ) and/or commodity trading advisors ( CTAs ) with the CFTC and are members of the NFA. The CFTC and NFA each administer a comparable regulatory system covering futures contracts and various other financial instruments, including swaps as a result of the DFA, in which certain BlackRock clients may invest. Two of BlackRock s other subsidiaries, BlackRock Investments, LLC ( BRIL ) and BlackRock Execution Services, are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers and are member-firms of FINRA. Each broker-dealer has a membership agreement with FINRA that limits the scope of such broker-dealer s permitted activities. BRIL is also an approved person with the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) and a member of the MSRB, subject to MSRB rules.  
 U.S. Banking Regulation  
 PNC is a bank holding company and regulated as a  financial holding company  by the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the  BHC Act ). As described in  Item 1-Business , as of December 31, 2015 PNC owned approximately 22% of BlackRock s capital stock. Based on the Federal Reserve s interpretation of the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve currently takes the position that this ownership interest causes BlackRock to be treated as a nonbank subsidiary of PNC for purposes of the BHC Act, thereby subjecting BlackRock to banking regulation, including the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve and to most banking laws, regulations and orders that apply to PNC, including the Volcker Rule. The supervision and regulation of PNC and its subsidiaries under applicable banking laws are intended primarily for the protection of its banking subsidiaries, its depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the financial system as a whole, rather than for the protection of stockholders, creditors or clients of PNC or BlackRock.  
 BlackRock generally may conduct only activities that are authorized for a financial holding company under the BHC Act. Investment management is an authorized activity, but must be conducted within applicable regulatory requirements, which in some cases are more restrictive than those BlackRock faces under applicable securities laws. BlackRock may also invest in investment companies and private investment funds to which it provides advisory, administrative or other services, only to the extent consistent with applicable law and regulatory interpretations. Based on the Federal Reserve s position that BlackRock is a nonbank subsidiary of PNC, the Federal Reserve has broad powers to approve, deny or refuse to act upon applications or notices for BlackRock to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses or assets, or reconfigure existing operations, and there are limits on the ability of bank subsidiaries of PNC to extend credit to or conduct other transactions with BlackRock or its funds. PNC and its subsidiaries are also subject to examination by various banking regulators, which results in examination reports and ratings that may adversely impact the conduct and growth of BlackRock s businesses. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve has broad enforcement authority over nonbank subsidiaries, including the power to prohibit them from conducting any activity that, in the Federal Reserve s opinion, is unauthorized or constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice. The Federal Reserve may also impose substantial fines and other penalties for violations of applicable banking laws, regulations and orders. The DFA strengthened the Federal Reserve s supervisory and enforcement authority over a bank holding company s nonbank subsidiaries.  
 Any failure of PNC to maintain its status as a financial holding company could result in substantial limitations on certain BlackRock activities and its growth. Such a change of status could be caused by any failure of PNC or one of PNC s bank subsidiaries to remain  well capitalized  and  well managed,  by any examination downgrade of one of PNC s bank subsidiaries, or by any failure of one of PNC s bank subsidiaries to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act.  
 One of BlackRock s subsidiaries, BTC, is organized as a limited purpose national trust company that does not accept deposits or make commercial loans. BTC is a member of the Federal Reserve System. Accordingly, BTC is examined and supervised by the OCC and is subject to various banking laws and regulations enforced by the OCC, such as capital adequacy, regulations governing fiduciaries, conflicts of interest, self-dealing, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. BTC is also subject to various Federal Reserve regulations applicable to member institutions, such as regulations restricting transactions with affiliates. Many of these laws and regulations are meant for the protection of BTC s customers and not BTC, BlackRock and its affiliates, or BlackRock s stockholders.  
 Regulation of Securities Lending Financing Transactions 
   In its 2014 Annual Report, the FSOC identified securities lending indemnification by asset managers who act as lending agents as a potential systemic risk that required further review and monitoring. The Federal Reserve is also considering whether to impose specific margin or minimum haircut requirements for securities financing transactions ( SFTs ). In addition, in October 2015, the European Parliament adopted the European Commission s proposal for a European regulation on the reporting and transparency of SFTs. The SFT regulation aims to improve the transparency surrounding SFTs and limit the perceived risks of SFTs by, among other things, requiring central reporting of SFTs, requiring disclosure of SFTs to investors and imposing minimum requirements relating to the difference in prices at which a market maker can buy and sell a security in SFTs. If the recent scrutiny of SFTs results in additional regulatory requirements or reporting obligations, BlackRock may be  
 15 
 
  required to introduce additional compliance measures, which will subject BlackRock to additional expenses and could lead to modifications in BlackRock s SFT activities, including po  tential adjustments to its activities as agent lender for its clients  .  
 EXISTING INTERNATIONAL REGULATION   OVERVIEW  
 BlackRock s international operations are subject to the laws and regulations of a number of international jurisdictions, as well as oversight by numerous regulatory agencies and bodies in those jurisdictions. In some instances, these operations are also affected by U.S. laws and regulations that have extra-territorial application.  
 Below is a summary of certain international regulatory standards to which BlackRock is subject. It is not meant to be comprehensive as there are parallel legal and regulatory arrangements in force in many jurisdictions where BlackRock s subsidiaries conduct business.  
 Of note among the various other international regulations to which BlackRock is subject, are the extensive and complex regulatory reporting requirements that necessitate the monitoring and reporting of issuer exposure levels (thresholds) across the holdings of managed funds and accounts and those of the Company.  
 European Regulation  
 The FCA currently regulates certain BlackRock subsidiaries in the United Kingdom ( U.K. ). It also regulates those U.K. subsidiaries  branches established in other European Union countries and the U.K. branches of certain of BlackRock s U.S. subsidiaries. In addition, the Prudential Regulation Authority ( PRA ) regulates one BlackRock U.K. insurance subsidiary. Authorization by the FCA and (where relevant) the PRA is required to conduct certain financial services related business in the U.K. under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the  FSMA ). The FCA s rules adopted under the FSMA govern the majority of a firm s capital resources requirements, senior management arrangements, conduct of business, interaction with clients, and systems and controls, whereas the rules of the PRA focus solely on the prudential requirements that apply to BlackRock s U.K.-regulated insurance subsidiary. The FCA supervises BlackRock s U.K.-regulated subsidiaries through a combination of proactive engagement, event-driven and reactive supervision and thematic based reviews in order to monitor BlackRock s compliance with regulatory requirements. Breaches of the FCA s rules may result in a wide range of disciplinary actions against BlackRock s U.K.-regulated subsidiaries and/or its employees.  
 In addition, BlackRock s U.K.-regulated subsidiaries and other European subsidiaries and branches, must comply with the pan-European regulatory regime established by MiFID, which regulates the provision of investment services and activities throughout the wider EEA. MiFID, the scope of which is being enhanced through MiFID II (which is described more particularly under    Global Regulatory Reform  above), sets out detailed requirements governing the organization and conduct of business of investment firms and regulated markets. It also includes pre- and post-trade transparency requirements for equity and non-equity markets and extensive transaction reporting requirements. Certain BlackRock European subsidiaries must also comply with the Consolidated Life Directive and Insurance Mediation Directive. In addition, relevant entities must comply with revised obligations on capital resources for banks and certain investment firms (the Capital Requirements Directive). These include requirements on capital, as well as matters of governance and remuneration. The obligations introduced through these directives will have a direct effect on some of BlackRock s European operations.  
 BlackRock s EU-regulated subsidiaries are also subject to an EU regulation on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories, which requires (i) the central clearing of standardized OTC derivatives, (ii) the application of risk-mitigation techniques to non-centrally cleared OTC derivatives and (iii) the reporting of all derivative contracts since February 2014.  
 Regulation in the Asia-Pacific Region  
 In Japan, a BlackRock subsidiary is subject to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law ( FIEL ) and the Law Concerning Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations. These laws are administered and enforced by the Japanese Financial Services Agency ( JFSA ), which establishes standards for compliance, including capital adequacy and financial soundness requirements, customer protection requirements and conduct of business rules. The JFSA is empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease and desist orders or the suspension or revocation of registrations and licenses granted under the FIEL. This Japanese subsidiary also holds a license for real estate brokerage activity which subjects it to the regulations set forth in the Real Estate Brokerage Business Act.  
 In Australia, BlackRock s subsidiaries are subject to various Australian federal and state laws, and certain subsidiaries are regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ( ASIC ). ASIC regulates companies and financial services in Australia and is responsible for promoting investor, creditor and consumer protection. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in the cancellation, suspension or variation of the regulated subsidiaries  licenses in Australia.  
 The activities of certain BlackRock subsidiaries in Hong Kong are subject to the Securities and Futures Ordinance ( SFO ) which governs the securities and futures markets and regulates, among others, offers of investments to the public and provides for the licensing of intermediaries. The SFO is administered by the Securities and Futures Commission ( SFC ). The SFC is also empowered to establish standards for compliance as well as codes and guidelines. The relevant BlackRock subsidiaries and the employees conducting any of the regulated activities specified in the SFO are required to be licensed with the SFC, and are subject to the rules, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC. Failure to comply with the applicable laws, regulations, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC could result in the suspension or revocations of the licenses granted by the SFC.  
 BlackRock s operations in Taiwan are regulated by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, which is responsible for regulating securities markets (including the Taiwan Stock Exchange and the Taiwan Futures Exchange), the banking industry and the insurance sector. Other financial regulators oversee BlackRock subsidiaries, branches, and representative offices across the Asia-Pacific region, including in Singapore and South Korea. Regulators in these jurisdictions have authority with respect to financial services including, among other things, the authority to grant or cancel required licenses or registrations. In addition, these regulators may subject certain BlackRock subsidiaries to net capital requirements.  
 16 
 
    AVAILABLE INFORMATION   
 BlackRock files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and all amendments to these reports and other information with the SEC. BlackRock makes available free-of-charge, on or through its website at http://www.blackrock.com, the Company s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and all amendments to those filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Company also makes available on its website the charters for the Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors, its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers and its Corporate Governance Guidelines. Further, BlackRock will provide, without charge, upon written request, a copy of the Company s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and all amendments to those filings as well as the committee charters, its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers and its Corporate Governance Guidelines. Requests for copies should be addressed to Investor Relations, BlackRock, Inc., 55 East 52nd Street, New York, New York 10055. Investors may read and copy any document BlackRock files at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. Reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including BlackRock s filings, are also available to the public from the SEC s website at http://www.sec.gov.  
   
 17 
 
        Item 1A. R  isk Factors   
 As a leading investment management firm, risk is an inherent part of BlackRock s business. Global markets, by their nature, are prone to uncertainty and subject participants to a variety of risks. While BlackRock devotes significant resources across all of its operations to identify, measure, monitor, manage and analyze market, operating, legal, compliance, fiduciary and investment risks, BlackRock s business, financial condition, operating results and nonoperating results could be materially adversely affected and the Company s stock price could decline as a result of any of these risks and uncertainties, including the ones discussed below.  
 MARKET AND COMPETITION RISKS  
 Changes in the value levels of equity, debt, real estate, commodities, currency or other asset markets may cause assets under management ( AUM ), revenue and earnings to decline.  
 BlackRock s investment management revenue is primarily comprised of fees based on a percentage of the value of AUM and, in some cases, performance fees which are normally expressed as a percentage of returns to the client. Numerous factors, including price movements in the equity, debt or currency markets, or in the price of real estate, commodities or alternative investments in which BlackRock invests, could cause:  

the value of AUM, or the returns BlackRock realizes on AUM, to decrease;     

the withdrawal of funds from BlackRock s products in favor of products offered by competitors;     

the rebalancing or reallocating of assets into BlackRock products that yield lower fees;     

an impairment to the value of intangible assets and goodwill; or     

a decrease in the value of seed or co-investment capital.     

 The occurrence of any of these events may cause the Company s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 BlackRock s investment advisory contracts may be terminated or may not be renewed by clients or fund boards on favorable terms and the liquidation of certain funds may be accelerated at the option of investors.  
 BlackRock derives a substantial portion of its revenue from its investment advisory business. The advisory or management contracts BlackRock has entered into with its clients, including the agreements that govern many of BlackRock s investment funds, provide investors or, in some cases, the independent directors of private investment funds, with significant latitude to terminate such contracts, withdraw funds or liquidate funds by simple majority vote with limited notice or penalty, or to remove BlackRock as a fund s investment advisor (or equivalent). BlackRock also manages its U.S. mutual funds, closed-end and exchange-traded funds under management contracts that must be renewed and approved annually by the funds  respective boards of directors, a majority of whom are independent from the Company. BlackRock s fee arrangements under any of its advisory or management contracts may be subject to reduction (including at the behest of a fund s board of directors). In addition, if a number of BlackRock s clients terminate their contracts, remove BlackRock from advisory roles, liquidate funds or fail to renew management contracts on favorable terms, the fees or carried interest BlackRock earns could be reduced which may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 Increased competition may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 The investment management industry is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. BlackRock competes based on a number of factors including: investment performance, the level of fees charged, the quality and diversity of services and products provided, name recognition and reputation, and the ability to develop new investment strategies and products to meet the changing needs of investors. Increased competition on the basis of any of these factors, including competition leading to fee reductions on existing or new business, may cause the Company s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 Failure to maintain Aladdin s competitive position in a dynamic market for risk analytics could lead to a loss of clients and could impede BlackRock s productivity and growth.  
 The sophisticated risk analytics that BlackRock provides via the  Aladdin  technology platform to support investment advisory and BlackRock Solutions clients are an important element of BlackRock s competitive success.   Aladdin s  competitive position is based in part on its ability to combine sophisticated risk analytics with comprehensive portfolio management, trading and operations tools on a single platform.  Increased competition from risk analytics and investment management technology providers or a shift in client demand away to standalone or internally developed solutions, whether due to market-based or regulatory factors, may weaken  Aladdin s  competitive position and may cause the Company s revenue and earnings to decline.  In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to effectively protect and enforce its intellectual property rights in  Aladdin . 
 The impairment or failure of other financial institutions may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 BlackRock s investment management activities expose the products and accounts it manages to many different industries and counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial and investment banks, clearing organizations, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Transactions with counterparties expose the products and accounts BlackRock manages to credit risk in the event the applicable counterparty defaults. Although BlackRock regularly assesses risks posed by its counterparties, such counterparties may be subject to sudden swings in the financial and credit markets that may impair their ability to perform or they may otherwise fail to meet their obligations. Any such impairment or failure could negatively impact the performance of products or accounts managed by BlackRock, which could lead to the loss of clients and may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 18 
 
    The failure or negative performance of products offered by competitors may cause AUM in similar BlackRock products to decline irr  espective of BlackRock s performance.   
 Many competitors offer similar products to those offered by BlackRock and the failure or negative performance of competitors  products could lead to a loss of confidence in similar BlackRock products, irrespective of the performance of such products. Any loss of confidence in a product type could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products, which may cause the Company s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 Changes in the value of seed and co-investments that BlackRock owns could affect its nonoperating income and could increase the volatility of its earnings.  
 At December 31, 2015, BlackRock s net economic investment exposure of approximately $1.5 billion in its investments (see  Item 7   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Investments ) primarily resulted from co-investments and seed investments in its sponsored investment funds. Movements in the equity, debt or currency markets, or in the price of real estate, commodities or alternative investments, could lower the value of these investments, increase the volatility of BlackRock s earnings and may cause earnings to decline.  
 Acts of terror and the continued threat of terrorism, as well as increased geopolitical unrest could adversely affect the global economy or specific international, regional and domestic markets, which may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 Terrorist activity and the continued threat of terrorism and acts of civil or international hostility, both within the United States and abroad, as well as ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and declines in the global markets, loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Acts of terror may also result in increased border security between countries which could adversely affect trade, impede growth and exacerbate refugee crises arising out of civil or international conflicts. Continued geopolitical unrest and terrorist activity that adversely affect the global economy or capital markets may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
 Risks Related to INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE  
 Poor investment performance could lead to the loss of clients and may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 The Company s management believes that investment performance, including the efficient delivery of beta for passively managed products, is one of the most important factors for the growth and retention of AUM. Poor investment performance relative to applicable portfolio benchmarks or to competitors may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline as a result of:  

client withdrawals in favor of better performing products;     

client shifts from active to passive products which charge lower fees;    

the diminishing ability to attract additional funds from existing and new clients;     

the Company earning reduced, minimal or no performance fees;     

an impairment to the value of intangible assets and goodwill; or     

a decrease in investment returns on seed and co-investment capital.     

 Performance fees may increase volatility of both revenue and earnings.  
 A portion of BlackRock s revenue is derived from performance fees on investment advisory assignments. Performance fees represented $621 million, or 5%, of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. Generally, the Company is entitled to a performance fee only if the agreement pursuant to which it is managing the assets provides for one and if returns on the related portfolio exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. If these targets are not exceeded, a performance fee for that period will not be earned and, if targets are based on cumulative returns, the Company may not earn performance fees in future periods, which may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 Failure to identify errors in the quantitative models BlackRock utilizes to manage its business could adversely impact product performance and client relationships.  
 BlackRock employs various quantitative models to support its investment decisions and allocations, including those related to risk assessment, portfolio management, trading and hedging activities and product valuations. Any errors in the underlying models or model assumptions could have unanticipated and adverse consequences on BlackRock s business and reputation.  
 TECHNOLOGY AND OPERATIONAL RISKS  
 A failure in BlackRock s operational systems or infrastructure, including business continuity plans, could disrupt operations, damage the Company s reputation and may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 BlackRock s infrastructure, including its technological capacity, data centers and office space, is vital to the competitiveness of its business. Moreover a significant portion of BlackRock s critical business operations are concentrated in a limited number of geographic areas, including San Francisco, New York, London and Gurgaon. The failure to maintain an infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of BlackRock s business, or the occurrence of a business outage or event outside BlackRock s control, including a major earthquake, hurricane, fire, terrorist act, pandemic or other catastrophic event in any location at which BlackRock maintains a major presence, could materially impact operations, result in disruption to the business or impede its growth. Notwithstanding BlackRock s efforts to ensure business continuity, if it fails to keep business continuity plans up-to-date or if such plans, including secure back-up facilities and systems and the availability of back-up employees, are improperly implemented or deployed during a disruption, the Company s ability to operate could be adversely impacted which may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline or impact the Company s ability to comply with regulatory obligations leading to reputational harm, regulatory fines and/or sanctions.  
 19 
 
    A cyber-attack or a failure to implement effective information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial   losses that may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.   
 BlackRock is dependent on the effectiveness of the information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities it maintains to protect its computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. An externally caused information security incident, such as a hacker attack, virus, phishing scam or worm, or an internally caused issue, such as failure to control access to sensitive systems, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential client or competitive information.  
 There have been a number of recent highly publicized cases involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information, as well as cyber-attacks involving the dissemination, theft and destruction of corporate information or other assets, as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties, including actions by terrorist organizations and hostile foreign governments. BlackRock has been the target of attempted cyber-attacks, as well as the co-opting of its brand to create fraudulent websites, and must continuously monitor and develop its systems to protect its technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption, as the failure to do so could disrupt BlackRock s operations and cause financial losses. In addition, due to BlackRock s interconnectivity with third-party vendors, central agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial institutions, BlackRock may be adversely affected if any of them are subject to a successful cyber-attack or other information security event. Any information security incident or cyber-attack against BlackRock or third parties with whom it is connected could result in material financial loss, loss of competitive position, regulatory fines and/or sanctions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 Failure or unavailability of third-party dependencies may adversely affect Aladdin operations and could lead to a loss of clients and could impede BlackRock s productivity and growth  
 BlackRock relies on its ability to maintain a robust and secure technological framework to maximize the benefit of the  Aladdin  platform.  The analytical capabilities of  Aladdin  depend on the ability of a number of third parties to provide data and other information as inputs into  Aladdin  analytical calculations.  The failure of these third parties to provide such data or information, or disruption of such information flows, could result in operational difficulties and adversely impact BlackRock s ability to provide services to its investment advisory and BlackRock Solutions clients.  
 Operating risks associated with BlackRock s securities lending program may result in client losses.  
 BlackRock lends securities to banks and broker-dealers on behalf of certain of its clients. In these securities lending transactions, the borrower is required to provide and maintain collateral at or above regulatory minimums. Securities on loan are marked to market daily to determine if the borrower is required to pledge additional collateral. BlackRock must manage this process and is charged with mitigating the associated operational risks. The failure of BlackRock s controls to mitigate such operational risks could result in financial losses for the Company s clients that participate in its securities lending programs (separate from the risks of collateral investments), and BlackRock may be held liable for any failure to manage any such risks.  
 BlackRock indemnifies certain securities lending clients for specified losses as a result of a borrower default.  
 BlackRock provides borrower default indemnification to certain of its securities lending clients. In the event of a borrower default, BlackRock would use the collateral pledged by the borrower to repurchase securities out on loan in order to replace them in a client s account. Borrower default indemnification is limited to the shortfall that occurs in the event the collateral available at the time of the borrower s default is insufficient to repurchase those securities out on loan.  BlackRock requires all borrowers to mark to market their pledged collateral daily to levels in excess of the value of the securities on loan to mitigate the likelihood of the indemnity being triggered. Where the collateral is in the form of cash, the indemnities BlackRock provides do not guarantee, assume or otherwise insure the investment performance or return of any cash collateral vehicle into which that cash collateral is invested. The amount of securities on loan as of December 31, 2015 and subject to indemnification was $169.3 billion. BlackRock held, as agent, cash and securities totaling $179.6 billion as collateral for indemnified securities on loan at December 31, 2015. Significant borrower defaults occurring simultaneously with rapid declines in the value of collateral pledged and/or increases in the value of the securities loaned may create collateral shortfalls, which could result in material liabilities under these indemnities and may cause the Company s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 BlackRock s decision to provide support to particular products from time to time, or the inability to provide support, may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 BlackRock may, at its option, from time to time support investment products through capital or other credit support. Such support may utilize capital and liquidity that would otherwise be available for other corporate purposes. Losses on such support, as well as regulatory restrictions on the Company s ability to provide such support or the failure to have available or devote sufficient capital or liquidity to support products, may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 Failure to maintain adequate corporate and contingent liquidity may cause BlackRock s AUM, liquidity and earnings to decline, as well as harm its prospects for growth.  
 BlackRock s ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon a number of factors, including its ability to maintain and grow AUM, its creditworthiness and operating cash flows. Failure to maintain adequate liquidity could lead to unanticipated costs and force BlackRock to revise existing strategic and business initiatives. BlackRock s access to equity and debt markets and its ability to issue public or private debt, or secure lines of credit or commercial paper back-up lines, on reasonable terms may be limited by adverse market conditions, a reduction in its long- or short-term credit ratings, or changes in government regulations, including tax and interest rates. Failure to obtain funds and/or financing, or any adverse change to the cost of obtaining such funds and/or financing, may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline, curtail its operations and limit or impede its prospects for growth.  
 20 
 
    Fraud, or the circumvention of controls and risk management policies, could have an adverse effect on BlackRock s reputation, which may cause the Company s   AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.   
 Although BlackRock has adopted a comprehensive risk management process and continues to enhance various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risks, it cannot assure that such controls, procedures, policies and systems will successfully identify and manage internal and external risks to its businesses. BlackRock is subject to the risk that its employees, contractors or other third parties may deliberately seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud or act in ways that are inconsistent with the Company s controls, policies and procedures. Persistent attempts to circumvent policies and controls or repeated incidents involving fraud, conflicts of interests or transgressions of policies and controls could have an adverse effect on BlackRock s reputation, which could cause costly regulatory inquiries, fines and/or sanctions and may cause the Company s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 BlackRock may be unable to develop new products and services and the development of new products and services may expose BlackRock to additional costs or operational risk .   
 BlackRock s financial performance depends, in part, on its ability to develop, market and manage new investment products and services. The development and introduction of new products and services require continued innovative efforts on the part of BlackRock and may require significant time and resources as well as ongoing support and investment. Substantial risk and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including the implementation of new and appropriate operational controls and procedures, shifting client and market preferences, the introduction of competing products or services and compliance with regulatory requirements. A failure to continue to innovate to introduce new products and services or to successfully manage the risks associated with such products and services may cause BlackRock s costs to fluctuate, which may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 The failure to recruit and retain employees and develop and implement effective executive succession could lead to the loss of clients and may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 BlackRock s success is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of its highly skilled workforce and the Company s ability to plan for the future long-term growth of the business by identifying and developing those employees who can ultimately transition into key roles within BlackRock. The market for qualified fund managers, investment analysts, technology and risk specialists and other professionals is competitive, and factors that affect BlackRock s ability to attract and retain such employees include the Company s reputation, the compensation and benefits it provides, and its commitment to effectively managing executive succession, including the development and training of qualified individuals. BlackRock s ability to attract and retain talent may also be affected if European regulations instituting bonus caps or limiting the amount of compensation that asset managers can pay to certain employees are enacted in the varying formats in which they have been proposed.   
 In addition, a percentage of the deferred compensation that BlackRock pays to its employees is tied to the Company s share price. As such, if BlackRock s share price were to decrease materially, the retention value of such deferred compensation would decrease. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be successful in its efforts to recruit and retain employees and effectively manage executive succession. If BlackRock is unable to offer competitive compensation or otherwise attract and retain talented individuals, or if it fails to effectively manage executive succession, the Company s ability to compete effectively and retain its existing clients may be materially impacted.  
 Future inorganic transactions may harm the Company s competitive or financial position if they are not successful.  
 BlackRock employs a variety of organic and inorganic strategies intended to enhance earnings, increase product offerings, access new clients, leverage advances in technology and expand into new geographies. Inorganic strategies have included hiring smaller-sized investment teams, and acquiring investment management businesses and other small and medium-sized companies. Inorganic transactions involve a number of financial, accounting, tax, regulatory, geographical and operational challenges and uncertainties, including in some cases the assumption of pre-existing liabilities. Any failure to identify and mitigate these risks through due diligence and indemnification provisions could adversely impact BlackRock s reputation, may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline, and may harm the Company s competitive position in the investment management industry. Moreover, there can be no assurances that BlackRock will be able to successfully integrate or realize the intended benefits from future inorganic transactions.  
 Investments in real assets such as real estate, infrastructure and energy assets may expose BlackRock and its funds and accounts to new or increased risks and liabilities, as well as reputational harm.  
 Investments in real assets, including real estate, infrastructure and energy assets, may expose BlackRock and its funds and accounts to increased risks and liabilities that are inherent in the ownership and management of such assets. These may include: 

construction risks, including labor disputes or work stoppages, shortages of material or interruptions to the availability of necessary equipment;    

accidents, adverse weather, force majeure or catastrophic events, such as explosions, fires or terrorist activity beyond BlackRock s control;    

personal injury or property damage;     

failures on the part of third-party managers or sub-contractors appointed in connection with investments or projects to adequately perform their contractual duties or operate in accordance with applicable laws;     

exposure to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, including those related to permits, government contracting, conservation, exploration and production, tenancy, occupational health and safety, foreign investment and environmental protection;     

environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, product and waste spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, and unauthorized discharges of products, wastes and other pollutants;    

changes to the supply and demand for properties and/or tenancies or fluctuations in the price of commodities;     

 21 

the financial resources of tenants; and     

contingent liabilities on disposition of assets.    

 The above risks may expose BlackRock s funds and accounts to additional expenses and liabilities, including costs associated with delays or remediation costs, and increased legal or regulatory costs, all of which could impact the returns earned by BlackRock s clients.  These risks could also result in direct liability for BlackRock by exposing BlackRock to regulatory sanction or litigation, including claims for compensatory or punitive damages. Similarly, market conditions may change during the course of developments or projects in which BlackRock invests that make such development or project less attractive than at the time it was commenced and potentially harm the investment returns of BlackRock s clients. The occurrence of any such events may expose BlackRock to reputational harm, divert management s time and attention away from BlackRock s business activities or cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.   
 Operating in international markets increases BlackRock s operational, political, regulatory and other risks.  
 As a result of BlackRock s extensive international operations, the Company faces associated operational, regulatory, reputational, political and foreign exchange rate risks, many of which are outside of the Company s control. The failure of the Company s systems of internal control to mitigate such risks, or of its operating infrastructure to support its global activities, could result in operational failures and regulatory fines and/or sanctions, which may cause the Company s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
   
 Risks Related to KEY THIRD-PARTY Relationships  
 The failure of a key vendor to BlackRock to fulfill its obligations could have a material adverse effect on BlackRock s reputation or business, which may cause the Company s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 BlackRock depends on a number of key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody, risk analytics, market data, market indices and transfer agent roles and other distribution and operational needs. BlackRock performs focused diligence on its vendors in an effort to ensure they operate in accordance with expectations; however, to the extent any significant deficiencies are uncovered, there may be few, or no, feasible alternative vendors available to BlackRock in certain areas. The failure or inability of BlackRock to diversify its sources for key services or the failure of any key vendor to fulfill its obligations could lead to operational and regulatory issues for the Company, including with respect to certain of its products, which could result in reputational harm and may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 Any disruption to the Company s distribution channels may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 BlackRock relies on a number of third parties to provide distribution, portfolio administration and servicing for certain BlackRock investment management products and services through their various distribution channels. In particular, BlackRock entered into a global distribution agreement with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch in 2006, which is subject to renegotiation at the end of 2016. BlackRock s ability to maintain strong relationships with its distributors is material to the Company s future performance. If BlackRock is unable to distribute its products and services successfully, if it experiences an increase in distribution-related costs, or if it is unable to replace or renew existing distribution arrangements, BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings may decline.  
 Disruption to the operations of third parties whose functions are integral to BlackRock s Exchange Traded Fund ( ETF ) platform may adversely affect the prices at which ETFs trade, particularly during periods of market volatility. 
 BlackRock is the largest provider of ETFs globally. Shares of ETFs trade on stock exchanges at prices at, above or below the ETF s most recent net asset value ( NAV ). The NAV of an ETF is calculated at the end of each business day and fluctuates with changes in the market value of the ETF s holdings. The trading price of the ETF s shares fluctuates continuously throughout trading hours. While an ETF s creation/redemption feature and the arbitrage mechanism are designed to make it more likely that the ETF s shares normally will trade at prices close to the ETF s NAV, exchange prices may deviate significantly from the ETF s NAV. ETF market prices are subject to numerous potential risks, including trading halts invoked by a stock exchange, inability or unwillingness of market markers, authorized participants, settlement systems or other market participants to perform functions necessary for an ETF s arbitrage mechanism to function effectively, or significant market volatility. Although BlackRock and other large issuers of ETFs are working with market participants to enhance U.S. equity market resiliency, there can be no assurance that structural reforms will be implemented in a timely or effective fashion, or at all. Moreover, if market events lead to incidences where ETFs trade at prices that deviate significantly from an ETF s NAV, or trading halts are invoked by the relevant stock exchange or market, investors may lose confidence in ETF products and redeem their holdings, which may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 Legal and Regulatory Risks  
 BlackRock is subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world.  
 BlackRock s business is subject to extensive regulation around the world. These regulations subject BlackRock s business activities to a pervasive array of increasingly detailed operational requirements, compliance with which is costly, time-consuming and complex. BlackRock may be adversely affected by its failure to comply with current laws and regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. Challenges associated with interpreting regulations issued in numerous countries in a globally consistent manner may add to such risks, if regulators in different jurisdictions have inconsistent views or provide only limited regulatory guidance. In particular, violation of applicable laws or regulations could result in fines and/or sanctions, temporary or permanent prohibition of certain activities, reputational harm and related client terminations, suspensions of employees or revocation of their licenses, suspension or termination of investment adviser, broker-dealer or other registrations, or suspension or termination of bank charter or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on BlackRock s reputation or business and may cause the Company s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. For a more extensive discussion of the laws, regulations and regulators to which BlackRock is subject, see  Item 1   Business   Regulation.   
 22 
 
    Regulatory reforms in the United States and internationally expose BlackRock and its clients to increasing regul  atory scrutiny.  
 In recent years a number of proposals for regulatory reform have been introduced, and the level of regulatory scrutiny to which BlackRock is subject is expected to increase. See  Item 1   Business   Regulation.  A number of regulatory reforms that have been proposed may require BlackRock to alter its business or operating activities, which could be time-consuming and costly and which may impede the Company s growth and may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. Regulatory reform may also impact BlackRock s banking, insurance company and pension fund clients, which could cause them to change their investment strategies or allocations in manners that may be adverse to BlackRock. Key regulatory reforms that may impact the Company include:  

Designation as a systemically important financial institution : Both the FSB, working with IOSCO, and FSOC are considering potential systemic risk related to asset management. In July 2014, the FSOC issued a statement indicating that their review would focus on products and activities, and FSOC subsequently released a request for information addressing: market liquidity and fund redemption risk, the use of leverage, operational risk, and the resolution of asset managers including the transition of client assets. In June 2015, IOSCO issued a statement indicating they also favored a products and activities approach in their review of asset managers, and in July 2015, the FSB made a similar announcement.  In September 2015, the FSB released a statement indicating that their review would focus on: market liquidity and fund redemption risk, the use of leverage, securities lending practices, operational risk, and risks from pension funds and sovereign wealth funds. Although FSOC, IOSCO and FSB have shifted from a focus on designating firms and/or funds as systemically important (i.e., G-SIFI or SIFI designations), the process is ongoing and may lead to designations in the future.  In the event that BlackRock receives a SIFI designation, under the DFA, the Federal Reserve System is charged with establishing enhanced regulatory requirements for nonbank financial institutions and BlackRock could become subject to its direct supervision.  If BlackRock were designated a SIFI or G-SIFI, it could become subject to enhanced prudential, capital, supervisory and other requirements, such as risk-based capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, resolution plan and credit exposure report requirements, concentration limits, a contingent capital requirement, enhanced public disclosures, short-term debt limits and overall risk management requirements. Requirements such as these, which were designed to regulate banking institutions, would be extremely burdensome for BlackRock, unless they were modified to be applicable to an asset manager. No proposals have been made indicating how such measures would be adapted for asset managers, if at all.     

The Volcker Rule : Provisions of the DFA referred to as the  Volcker Rule  created a new section of the BHC Act that places limitations on the ability of banks and their subsidiaries to engage in proprietary trading and to invest in and transact with certain private investment funds, including hedge funds, private equity funds and funds of funds (collectively  covered funds ). Conformance with the Volcker Rule s requirements may reduce the level of market making and liquidity activities of several of BlackRock s trading counterparties, which may adversely impact the liquidity and, in some cases, the pricing of various financial instruments in which BlackRock client accounts invest. Because the Federal Reserve currently treats BlackRock as a nonbank subsidiary of PNC, BlackRock may be required to conform its activities to the requirements of the Volcker Rule. On December 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve announced a second extension to the Volcker Rule conformance period, giving banking entities until July 21, 2016, to conform investments in and relationships with covered funds and foreign funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013 ( legacy covered funds ). The Federal Reserve also announced its intention to grant banking entities an additional one-year extension of the conformance period until July 21, 2017, to conform ownership interests in and relationships with these legacy covered funds. BlackRock has chosen to commence a conformance program for covered funds, including legacy covered funds. The Volcker Rule s restrictions may, among other things, limit BlackRock s ability to invest in covered funds and require BlackRock to remove its name from the names of its covered funds. The Volcker Rule may also require BlackRock to sell certain seed and co-investments that it holds in covered funds, which may occur at a discount to existing carrying value, depending on market conditions.     

Money market mutual fund reform : Approximately 3% of BlackRock s AUM as of December 31, 2015, consisted of assets in U.S. MMFs, of which institutional prime or institutional municipal MMFs (including offshore funds that feed into such MMFs) comprised approximately 2%. In July 2014, the SEC adopted new rules designed to reform the regulatory structure governing MMFs and to address the perceived systemic risks that such funds present. The new rules, to which U.S. MMFs must conform by October 2016, require institutional prime and institutional municipal MMFs to employ a floating net asset value per share method of pricing, which allows the daily share prices of these funds to fluctuate along with changes in the market-based value of fund assets. Retail MMFs may continue operating with a constant net asset value per share.  The rules also provide for new tools for institutional and retail MMFs  boards designed to address market shocks, including liquidity fees and redemption gates. The new rules do not apply to government (non-municipal) MMFs, although such funds may  opt-in  to the new liquidity fee and redemption gate provisions if previously disclosed to investors. Implementation of these new rules requires the development of new or additional systems by BlackRock and the funds  service providers. BlackRock has commenced efforts to move its MMFs into compliance in advance of the deadline.  The impact of the rules that affect the structure of the funds on BlackRock s business remains uncertain as clients must decide which products fit their investment needs.  The new rules will, however, affect certain of BlackRock s funds  investment strategies, portfolio liquidity and return potential. The new rules will also result in changes to BlackRock s existing U.S. MMFs and may reduce the attractiveness of certain U.S. MMFs to investors.     

Regulation of swaps and derivatives : The implementation of DFA regulations, similar regulations in the EU and other global jurisdictions relating to swaps and derivatives could impact the manner in which BlackRock-advised funds and accounts use and trade swaps and other derivatives, increasing the costs of derivatives trading for BlackRock s clients. Various global rules and regulations applicable to the use of financial products by funds, accounts and counterparties that have been adopted or proposed will require BlackRock to build and implement new compliance monitoring procedures to address the enhanced level of oversight to which it and its clients will be subject. These rules will also introduce new central clearing requirements for certain swap transactions and will require that certain swaps be executed only on or through electronic trading venues (as opposed to over the phone or other execution methods), with which BlackRock will have to comply. In the United States, certain interest rate swaps and certain index credit default swaps are already subject to the DFA central clearing and electronic trading venue requirements, with additional products and asset classes potentially becoming subject to these requirements in 2016 and beyond.  For swaps and security-based swaps that are not centrally cleared, U.S. bank regulators recently adopted rules that could require BlackRock-advised funds and accounts to post margin payments when trading with a swap dealer that is regulated by one of the U.S. bank regulators. The CFTC also recently adopted similar margin rules applicable when trading non-cleared swaps with swap dealers who are not regulated by one of the U.S. bank regulators. These rules have the potential to increase the complexity and cost of trading non-cleared derivatives for BlackRock's clients. In EMEA, central clearing requirements will be implemented     

 23 

in a phased manner and will apply to BlackRock funds and accounts beginning in the latter half of 2016. The new   rules and regulations may produce regulatory inconsistencies in global derivatives trading rules and increase BlackRock s operational and legal risks.      

SEC asset management industry initiatives:  The SEC and its staff continue to engage in various initiatives and reviews that seek to improve and modernize the regulatory structure governing the asset management industry, and registered investment companies in particular. During 2015, the SEC proposed, among other things: enhanced reporting by investment advisors, enhanced reporting on registered mutual funds, new rules for liquidity risk management in registered funds, and new rules governing the use of derivatives and leverage by registered investment companies and business development companies. Furthermore, in June 2015, the SEC issued a request for comments regarding practices related to ETFs, which is widely expected to result in a future rulemaking.  The SEC has also indicated an intention to propose new rules for the stress testing of registered investment companies and transition planning by asset managers, including the transfer of client assets.  The SEC s focus has also been directed toward risk identification and controls in various areas, including the use of derivatives and other trading practices (as reflected in the SEC s late December 2015 rule proposal referenced  in  Item 1   Business   Regulation   Regulation of Swaps and Derivatives  above), cyber-security and the evaluation of systemic risks. While these proposals have yet to be finalized into new rules, any new rules, guidance or regulatory initiatives resulting from these efforts could require BlackRock to alter its business or operating activities or fund management practices, or increase its public reporting and disclosure requirements, which could be time-consuming and costly and which may impede BlackRock's growth and may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.    

Revised DoL Fiduciary Rule:  In April 2015, the DoL proposed a new regulation defining the term "fiduciary" for purposes of the fiduciary responsibility provisions of Title I of ERISA and the prohibited transaction exercise tax provisions of the IRS. The rule has been highly criticized by industry participants, particularly retail intermediaries, and BlackRock is engaging with the DoL, trade associations and industry participants in an effort to affect revisions to the proposed rule. To the extent the rule is enacted as written, it will require BlackRock to re-paper a number of its distribution relationships, create compliance and operational challenges for BlackRock s distribution partners and may limit BlackRock s ability to provide certain useful services and education to its clients.    

Increased international regulatory scrutiny : In addition to the extensive scrutiny BlackRock faces from U.S.-based regulators, the Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to the authority of numerous governmental and regulatory bodies globally, in particular in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. These regulators have imposed numerous regulations, guidelines and standards on the activities of BlackRock and its subsidiaries covering a variety of areas, including capital resources requirements, marketing activities, client and investor protections, senior management arrangements, and system and control requirements. In the event that BlackRock or any of its subsidiaries fails to comply with these often complex guidelines, regulations and standards, the regulators have broad powers to suspend or revoke any licenses they may have granted and/or to impose fines and/or sanctions.     

European Union Directives : In the aftermath of the financial crisis, the European Commission ( EC ) initiated a plan for EU financial reform, including a number of consultations and initiatives intended to improve retail investor protections, which the EC reflected in new or updated Directives and regulations. The resulting review of MiFID, introduction of AIFMD, the introduction of MiFID II and the revision of the UCITS Directive have increased the compliance, disclosure and other obligations BlackRock faces in the European Economic Area. Once fully implemented, these Directives will have significant and wide-ranging impacts on EU securities and derivative markets, products and distribution, and internal governance arrangements, which will directly and indirectly impact BlackRock's EU regulated subsidiaries and other group companies.    

Reform of European Retail Distribution :   BlackRock must also comply with retail distribution rules aimed at enhancing consumer protections, overhauling mutual fund fee structures by banning the payment of commissions to distributors and increasing professionalism in the retail investment sector. The rules were originally introduced in the United Kingdom in 2012 and similar rules have since been introduced in other jurisdictions where BlackRock operates such as the Netherlands, and are under discussion elsewhere. Similarly, MiFID II will contain a ban on certain advisers recovering commissions and other nonmonetary benefits from fund managers. These rules will lead to greater fragmentation of distribution rules and may lead to changes to BlackRock s client servicing and distribution models, in particular affecting the fees BlackRock is able to charge to its clients and the commissions it is able to pay to its distribution partners.    

 Legal proceedings may cause the Company s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 BlackRock is subject to a number of sources of potential legal liability and the Company, certain of the investment funds it manages and certain of its subsidiaries and employees have been named as defendants in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation arising in connection with BlackRock s activities. Certain of BlackRock s subsidiaries and employees are also subject to periodic examination, special inquiries and potential proceedings by regulatory authorities, including the SEC, Federal Reserve, OCC, DoL, CFTC and FCA. Similarly, from time to time, BlackRock receives subpoenas or other requests for information from various U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and regulatory authorities in connection with certain industry-wide, company-specific or other investigations or proceedings. These examinations, inquiries and proceedings, have in the past and could in the future, if compliance failures or other violations are found, cause the relevant regulator to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations. Any such action may also result in litigation by investors in BlackRock s funds, other BlackRock clients or by BlackRock s shareholders, which could harm the Company s reputation and may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline, potentially harm the investment returns of the applicable fund, or result in the Company being liable for damages.  
 In addition, when clients retain BlackRock to manage their assets or provide them with products or services, they typically specify contractual requirements or guidelines that BlackRock must observe in the provision of its services. A failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could expose BlackRock to lawsuits, harm its reputation or cause clients to withdraw assets or terminate contracts.  
 As BlackRock s business continues to grow, the Company must routinely address conflicts of interest, as well as the perception of conflicts of interest, between itself and its clients, employees or vendors. In addition, the SEC and other regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts. BlackRock has procedures and controls in place that are designed to detect and address these issues. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and if the Company fails, or appears to fail, to appropriately deal with any conflict of interest, it may face reputational damage, litigation, regulatory proceedings, or penalties, fines and/or sanctions, any of which may cause BlackRock s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 24 
 
    BlackRock is subject to banking regulations that may limit its business activities.   
 As described in  Item 1-Business-Regulation , PNC owns approximately 22% of BlackRock s capital stock. Based on the Federal Reserve s interpretation of the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve takes the position that this ownership interest causes BlackRock to be treated as a nonbank subsidiary of PNC for purposes of the BHC Act, thereby subjecting BlackRock to banking regulation, including the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve. Such banking regulation limits the activities and the types of businesses that a nonbank subsidiary may conduct. The Federal Reserve has broad enforcement authority over nonbank subsidiaries, including the power to prohibit them from conducting any activity that, in the Federal Reserve s opinion, is unauthorized or constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice, and to impose substantial fines and other penalties for violations. PNC is regulated as a  financial holding company  under the BHC Act, which allows PNC and BlackRock to engage in a much broader set of activities than would otherwise be permitted under the BHC Act; any failure of PNC to maintain its status as a financial holding company could result in substantial limitations on certain BlackRock activities and its growth.  
 In addition, BlackRock s trust bank subsidiary, which is organized as a national bank, is separately subject to banking regulation by the OCC. The OCC has broad supervisory and enforcement authority over BlackRock s trust bank subsidiary and also subjects it to capital requirements. Being subject to banking regulation may put BlackRock at a competitive disadvantage because certain of its competitors are not subject to these limitations.  
 Failure to comply with ownership reporting requirements could result in harm to BlackRock s reputation and may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 Of note among the various international regulations to which BlackRock is subject are the extensive and increasingly stringent regulatory reporting requirements that necessitate the monitoring and reporting of issuer exposure levels (thresholds) across the holdings of managed funds and accounts and those of the Company. The specific triggers and the reporting methods that these threshold filings entail vary significantly by regulator and across jurisdictions. BlackRock continues to invest in technology, training and its employees to enhance its monitoring and reporting functions and improve the timeliness and accuracy of its disclosures. Despite these investments, the complexity of the various threshold reporting requirements combined with the breadth of the assets managed by the Company and high volume of securities trading have caused errors and omissions to occur in the past, and pose a risk that errors or omissions will occasionally occur in the future. Any such errors may expose BlackRock to monetary penalties, which could have an adverse effect on BlackRock s reputation and may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
 New tax legislation or changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws, treaties and regulations or challenges to BlackRock s historical taxation practices may adversely affect BlackRock s effective tax rate, business and overall financial condition.  
 BlackRock s businesses may be affected by new tax legislation or regulations, or the modification of existing tax laws, regulations and rulings, by U.S. or non-U.S. authorities. In particular, FATCA and the CRS have introduced new investor onboarding, withholding and reporting rules aimed at ensuring persons with financial assets outside of their tax residence country pay appropriate taxes. FATCA and CRS will impact both U.S. and non-U.S. funds and subject BlackRock to additional administrative burdens. Similarly, certain EU Member States have enacted FTTs, which impose taxation on a broad range of financial instrument and derivatives transactions. Several other EU Member States continue to discuss introducing FTTs. If introduced as proposed, FTTs could have an adverse effect on BlackRock s financial results and on clients  performance results. In addition, in October 2015 the OECD released its final BEPS package in an effort to curb the use of certain tax regimes and elements of tax planning, primarily in a cross-border context. The final package was endorsed by the G20 and is subject to implementation. BEPS contains a number of provisions that may negatively impact cross-border investing using commingled investment vehicles. In addition, in January 2016, the European Commission announced an Anti-Tax Avoidance Package ( EU Package ) for consideration by the European Parliament and Council containing measures to regulate certain elements of tax planning further and to boost tax transparency.  Once implemented, the BEPS package and the EU Package could curtail the amount of investments channeled by, and have unintended taxation consequences for, funds as well as the BlackRock s overall tax position, which could adversely affect BlackRock s financial condition and that of its clients.  
 The Company also manages significant assets in products and accounts that have specific tax objectives, which could be adversely impacted by changes in tax law or policy, particularly with respect to U.S. municipal income, the U.S. individual income tax rate on qualified dividends and long-term capital gains and, globally, alternative products. The application of complex tax regulations involves numerous uncertainties and, in the normal course of business, U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities may review and challenge BlackRock s historical tax positions. These challenges may result in adjustments to BlackRock s tax position, or impact the timing or amount of, taxable income, deductions or other tax allocations, which may adversely affect BlackRock s effective tax rate and overall financial condition.  
 Risks Related to BlackRock s SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDER  
 PNC owns a large portion of BlackRock s capital stock. Future sales or distributions of BlackRock s common stock in the public market by the Company or PNC could adversely affect the trading price of BlackRock s common stock.  
 As of December 31, 2015, PNC owned 22% of the Company s capital stock. Sales or distributions of a substantial number of shares of BlackRock s common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales or distributions might occur, may cause the market price of BlackRock s common stock to decline.  
 PNC has agreed to vote as a stockholder in accordance with the recommendation of BlackRock s Board of Directors, and certain actions will require special board approval or the prior approval of PNC.  
 As discussed in BlackRock s proxy statement, PNC has agreed to vote all of its voting shares in accordance with the recommendation of BlackRock s Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of its stockholder agreement with BlackRock. As a consequence, if the shares held by PNC constitute a substantial portion of the outstanding voting shares, matters submitted to a stockholder vote that require a majority or a plurality of votes for approval, including elections of directors, will have a substantial number of shares voted in accordance with the determination of the BlackRock Board of Directors. This arrangement has the effect of concentrating a significant block of voting control over BlackRock in its Board of Directors, whether or not stockholders agree with any particular determination of the Board.  
 25 
 
    As discussed in BlackRock s proxy statement, pursuant to BlackRock s stockholder agreement with PNC, the following may not be done without prior approval of all of the independent directors, or at leas  t two-thirds of the directors, then in office:   

appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer of BlackRock;     

any merger, issuance of shares or similar transaction in which beneficial ownership of a majority of the total voting power of BlackRock capital stock would be held by persons different than those currently holding such majority of the total voting power, or any sale of all or substantially all assets of BlackRock;     

any acquisition of any person or business which has a consolidated net income after taxes for its preceding fiscal year that equals or exceeds 20% of BlackRock s consolidated net income after taxes for its preceding fiscal year if such acquisition involves the current or potential issuance of BlackRock capital stock constituting more than 10% of the total voting power of BlackRock capital stock issued and outstanding immediately after completion of such acquisition;     

any acquisition of any person or business constituting a line of business that is materially different from the lines of business BlackRock and its controlled affiliates are engaged in at that time if such acquisition involves consideration in excess of 10% of the total assets of BlackRock on a consolidated basis;     

except for repurchases otherwise permitted under the stockholder agreement, any repurchase by BlackRock or any subsidiary of shares of BlackRock capital stock such that after giving effect to such repurchase BlackRock and its subsidiaries shall have repurchased more than 10% of the total voting power of BlackRock capital stock within the 12-month period ending on the date of such repurchase;     

any amendment to BlackRock s certificate of incorporation or bylaws; or     

any matter requiring stockholder approval pursuant to the rules of the NYSE.     

 Additionally, BlackRock may not enter into any of the following transactions without the prior approval of PNC:  

any sale of any subsidiary of BlackRock, the annualized revenue of which, together with the annualized revenue of any other subsidiaries disposed of within the same year, are more than 20% of the annualized revenue of BlackRock for the preceding fiscal year on a consolidated basis;     

for so long as BlackRock is a subsidiary of PNC for purposes of the BHC Act, entering into any business or activity that is prohibited for any such subsidiary under the BHC Act;     

any amendment of any provision of a stockholder agreement between BlackRock and any stockholder beneficially owning greater than 20% of BlackRock capital stock that would be viewed by a reasonable person as being adverse to PNC or materially more favorable to the rights of any stockholder beneficially owning greater than 20% of BlackRock capital stock than to PNC;     

any amendment, modification, repeal or waiver of BlackRock s certificate of incorporation or bylaws that would be viewed by a reasonable person as being adverse to the rights of PNC or more favorable to the rights of any stockholder beneficially owning greater than 20% of BlackRock capital stock, or any settlement or consent in a regulatory enforcement matter that would be reasonably likely to cause PNC or any of its affiliates to suffer regulatory disqualification, suspension of registration or license or other material adverse regulatory consequences; or     

a voluntary bankruptcy or similar filing by BlackRock.     

     Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  
 The Company has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff relating to BlackRock s periodic or current reports filed with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act .   

Item 2. Properties  
 BlackRock s principal office, which is leased, is located at 55 East 52nd Street, New York, New York. BlackRock leases additional office space in New York City at 40 East 52nd Street and throughout the world, including Boston, Chicago, Edinburgh, Gurgaon (India), Hong Kong, London, Melbourne, Munich, Princeton (New Jersey), San Francisco, Seattle, Singapore, Sydney, Taipei and Tokyo. The Company also owns an 84,500 square foot office building in Wilmington (Delaware).  

Item 3. Legal Proceedings   
 From time to time, BlackRock receives subpoenas or other requests for information from various U.S. federal, state governmental and domestic and international regulatory authorities in connection with certain industry-wide or other investigations or proceedings. It is BlackRock s policy to cooperate fully with such inquiries. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have been named as defendants in various legal actions, including arbitrations and other litigation arising in connection with BlackRock s activities. Additionally, BlackRock advised investment portfolios may be subject to lawsuits, any of which potentially could harm the investment returns of the applicable portfolio or result in the Company being liable to the portfolios for any resulting damages. 
   
   On May 27, 2014, certain purported investors in the BlackRock Global Allocation Fund, Inc. and the BlackRock Equity Dividend Fund (collectively, the  Funds ) filed a consolidated complaint (the  Consolidated Complaint ) in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against BlackRock Advisors, LLC, BlackRock Investment Management, LLC and BlackRock International Limited (collectively, the  Defendants ) under the caption  In re BlackRock Mutual Funds Advisory Fee Litigation . The Consolidated Complaint, which purports to be brought derivatively on behalf of the Funds, alleges that the Defendants violated Section 36(b) of the Investment Company Act by receiving allegedly excessive investment advisory fees from the Funds. On February 24, 2015, the same plaintiffs filed another complaint in the same  
 26 
 
  court against BlackRock Investment Management, LLC and BlackRock Advisors, LLC. The allegations and legal claims in both complaints are substantially similar, with the new complaint p  urporting to challenge fees received by Defendants after the plaintiffs filed their prior complaint. Both complaints seek, among other things, to recover on behalf of the Funds all allegedly excessive advisory fees received by Defendants in the twelve mont  h period preceding the start of each lawsuit, along with purported lost investment returns on those amounts, plus interest. On March 25, 2015, Defendants  motion to dismiss the Consolidated Complaint was denied. The Defendants believe the claims in both la  wsuits are without merit and intend to vigorously defend the actions.  
   
 Between November 12, 2015 and November 16, 2015, BlackRock, Inc., BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ( BRA ) and the BlackRock Granite Property Fund, Inc. ( Granite Fund ), along with certain other Granite Fund-related entities (collectively, the  BlackRock Parties ) were named as defendants in thirteen separate lawsuits filed in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Alameda arising out of the June 16, 2015 collapse of a balcony at the Library Gardens apartment complex in Berkeley, California (the  Property ). The Property is indirectly owned by the Granite Fund, which is managed by BRA. The plaintiffs also named as defendants in the lawsuits Greystar, which is the property manager of the Property, and certain other entities, including the developer of the Property, building contractors and building materials suppliers. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that the BlackRock Parties were negligent in their ownership, control and maintenance of the Property s balcony, and seek monetary, including punitive, damages. BlackRock believes the claims in the lawsuits are without merit and intends to vigorously defend the actions. 
 Management, after consultation with legal counsel, currently does not anticipate that the aggregate liability arising out of regulatory matters or lawsuits will have a material effect on BlackRock s results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. However, there is no assurance as to whether any such pending or threatened matters will have a material effect on BlackRock s results of operations, financial position or cash flows in any future reporting period. Due to uncertainties surrounding the outcome of these matters, management cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters.   
     Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures  
 Not applicable.  

Part II  
     Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
 BlackRock s common stock is listed on the NYSE and is traded under the symbol  BLK . At the close of business on January 31, 2016, there were 272 common stockholders of record. Common stockholders include institutional or omnibus accounts that hold common stock for many underlying investors.  
 The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low reported sale prices, period-end closing prices for the common stock and dividends declared per share for the common stock as reported on the NYSE:  

BlackRock s closing common stock price as of February 25, 2016 was $313.62.  
 Dividends  
 On January 14, 2016, the Board of Directors approved BlackRock s quarterly dividend of $2.29 to be paid on March 23, 2016 to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 7, 2016.  
 PNC receives dividends on shares of nonvoting participating preferred stock, which are equivalent to the dividends received by common stockholders.  
 27 
 
    Issuer   Purchases of Equity Securities   
 During the three months ended December 31, 2015, the Company made the following purchases of its common stock, which is registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.  

(1)   
 
 In January 2015, the Board of Directors approved an increase in the availability of shares that may be repurchased under the Company s existing share repurchase program to allow for the repurchase of up to a total of 9.4 million additional shares of BlackRock common stock with no stated expiration date.     

(2)   
 
 Includes purchases made by the Company primarily to satisfy income tax withholding obligations of employees and members of the Company s Board of Directors related to the vesting of certain restricted stock or restricted stock unit awards and purchases made by the Company as part of the publicly announced share repurchase program.     

Item 6. Selected Financial Data  
 The selected financial data presented below has been derived in part from, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements of BlackRock and Item 7,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  included in this Form 10-K.  

(1)   
 
 BlackRock s related party revenue includes fees for services provided to registered investment companies that it manages, which include mutual funds and exchange-traded funds, as a result of the Company s advisory relationship. In addition, equity method investments are considered related parties due to the Company s influence over the financial and operating policies of the investee. See Note 16,  Related Party Transactions,  to the consolidated financial statements for more information.     

(2)   
 
 Participating preferred stock is considered to be a common stock equivalent for purposes of earnings per share calculations.     

(3)   
 
 Total BlackRock stockholders  equity, excluding appropriated retained earnings, divided by total common and preferred shares outstanding at December 31 of the respective year-end.     

28 

(1)   
 
 Includes separate account assets that are segregated funds held for purposes of funding individual and group pension contracts and collateral held under securities lending agreements related to these assets that have equal and offsetting amounts recorded in liabilities and ultimately do not impact BlackRock s stockholders  equity or cash flows.     

(2)   
 
 Equal and offsetting amounts, related to separate account assets and collateral held under securities lending agreements, are recorded in liabilities.     

(3)   
 
 Amounts include assets held by consolidated sponsored investment products.  During 2015, the Company adopted new accounting guidance on consolidations effective January 1, 2015 using the modified retrospective method.  As a result of the adoption, the Company s balance sheet at December 31, 2015 reflects the deconsolidation of the Company s previously consolidated collateralized loan obligations.     

(4)   
 
 Amounts include commodity  iShares .     

(5)   
 
 Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.     

29 
 
        Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of   Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
 Forward-looking Statements  
 This report, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRock s future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as  trend,   potential,   opportunity,   pipeline,   believe,   comfortable,   expect,   anticipate,   current,   intention,   estimate,   position,   assume,   outlook,   continue,   remain,   maintain,   sustain,   seek,   achieve,  and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as  will,   would,   should,   could,   may  and similar expressions.  
 BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.  
 In addition to risk factors previously disclosed in BlackRock s Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) reports and those identified elsewhere in this report, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes and volatility in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment, foreign exchange rates or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management ( AUM  (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock s investment products; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (6) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (7) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (8) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property, information and cyber security protection; (9) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock or The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ( PNC  (10) terrorist activities, international hostilities and natural disasters, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries or BlackRock; (11) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (12) fluctuations in the carrying value of BlackRock s economic investments; (13) the impact of changes to tax legislation, including income, payroll and transaction taxes, and taxation on products or transactions, which could affect the value proposition to clients and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (14) BlackRock s success in maintaining the distribution of its products; (15) the impact of BlackRock electing to provide support to its products from time to time and any potential liabilities related to securities lending or other indemnification obligations; and (16) the impact of problems at other financial institutions or the failure or negative performance of products at other financial institutions.  
 Overview  
 BlackRock, Inc. (together, with its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise indicates,  BlackRock  or the  Company ) is a leading publicly traded investment management firm with $4.645 trillion of AUM at December 31, 2015. With approximately 13,000 employees in more than 30 countries, BlackRock provides a broad range of investment and risk management services to institutional and retail clients worldwide.  
 For further information see Note 1,  Introduction and Basis of Presentation , in the notes to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.  

30 
 
    Executive Summary   

(1)   
 
 Net of net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests ( NCI ) (redeemable and nonredeemable).     

(2)   
 
 As adjusted items are described in more detail in  Non-GAAP Financial Measures .     

(3)   
 
 Nonvoting participating preferred shares are considered to be common stock equivalents for purposes of determining basic and diluted earnings per share calculations.     

(4)   
 
 Total BlackRock stockholders  equity, excluding an appropriated retained deficit of $19 million for 2014 and appropriated retained earnings of $22 million for 2013, divided by total common and preferred shares outstanding at December 31 of the respective year-end.     

 2015 Compared with 2014    
 GAAP.     Operating income of $4,664 million increased $190 million and operating margin of 40.9% increased 50 bps from 2014. Operating income reflected growth in base fees and performance fees, partially offset by higher expense. The Company s 2015 expense reflected higher revenue-related expense, including compensation, and distribution and servicing costs, partially offset by lower general and administration expense and lower amortization of intangible assets.  In connection with the Barclays Global Investors ( BGI ) acquisition, BlackRock recorded a $50 million indemnification asset for unrecognized tax benefits. Due to the resolution of outstanding tax matters in 2014, BlackRock recorded $50 million of general and administration expense in 2014 to reflect the reduction of the indemnification asset and an offsetting $50 million tax benefit.  Results for 2014 also included $11 million of closed-end fund launch costs. Nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, decreased $20 million from 2014 due to lower net gains on investments in 2015.  
 Income tax expense for 2015 included a $54 million net noncash benefit associated with the revaluation of certain deferred income tax liabilities, including the effect of tax legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and state and local income tax changes and benefited from $75 million of nonrecurring items.  Income tax expense for 2014 included $94 million of tax benefits, including the $50 million tax benefit mentioned above, a $9 million net noncash benefit, primarily associated with the revaluation of certain deferred income tax liabilities as a result of domestic state and local tax changes, and a $73 million net tax benefit related to several favorable nonrecurring items. 
 Diluted earnings per common share rose $0.54, or 3%, compared with the prior year period, reflecting higher operating income and the benefit of share repurchases, partially offset by the impact of a higher 2015 effective tax rate and lower nonoperating income.  
 As Adjusted .      Operating income of $4,695 million increased $132 million from 2014 and the operating margin for both 2015 and 2014 was 42.9%. Income tax expense on an as adjusted basis for 2015   included a $75 million net benefit and   excluded the net noncash benefit of $54 million described above. General and administration expense for 2014 excluded the $50 million related to the reduction of the indemnification asset described above.  Income tax expense for 2014   included a $73 million net benefit and excluded a $50 million tax benefit associated with the reduction of the same indemnification asset and $9 million of net noncash benefits described above.      Diluted earnings per common share   rose $0.26, or 1%, from 2014.   
 2014 Compared with 2013    
 GAAP.  Operating income of $4,474 million increased $617 million from 2013, reflecting growth in base fees and  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenue, partially offset by higher expense. The Company s 2014 expense reflected higher revenue-related expense, including compensation and direct fund expense. Expense for 2014 also included the previously mentioned $50 million general and administration expense related to the reduction of an indemnification asset and $11 million of closed-end fund launch costs. The 2013 expense included $124 million of expense related to the Charitable Contribution described below and $18 million of closed-end fund launch costs.   
 31 
 
    Nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, decreased $146 million from 2013. Expense for 2013 incl  uded a $39 million noncash, nonoperating pre-tax gain related to the carrying value of the Company s equity method investment as a result of an initial public offering of PennyMac Financial Services, Inc. (the  PennyMac IPO ). In addition, in 2013, the Com  pany made a charitable contribution of approximately six million units of the Company s investment in PennyMac to a donor advised fund (the  Charitable Contribution ). In connection with the Charitable Contribution, the Company also recorded a noncash, non  operating pre-tax gain of $80 million related to the contributed investment. The decrease in nonoperating income (expense) also reflected net lower returns on the co-investment and seed portfolio and higher interest expense resulting from a long-term debt   issuance in March 2014, partially offset by the positive impact of the monetization of a nonstrategic, opportunistic private equity investment during 2014.   
 Income tax expense of $1,131 million included $94 million of tax benefits, including the $50 million tax benefit mentioned above. Income tax expense for 2014 and 2013 reflected the revaluation of deferred income tax liabilities related to intangible assets and goodwill. Income tax expense for 2014 included a $9 million net noncash benefit arising primarily from state and local income tax changes and a $73 million net benefit related to several favorable nonrecurring items. Income tax expense for 2013 included a $69 million noncash benefit, primarily related to legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and state and local income tax changes. In addition, 2013 income tax expense included a benefit of approximately $48 million recognized in connection with the Charitable Contribution, a benefit of approximately $29 million, primarily due to the realization of tax loss carryforwards, and benefits from certain nonrecurring items.  
 Diluted earnings per common share rose $2.38, or 14%, from 2013 due to higher net income and the benefit of share repurchases.  
 As Adjusted . Operating income of $4,563 million and operating margin of 42.9% increased $539 million and 150 basis points, respectively, from 2013. Results for 2014 excluded a $50 million general and administrative expense related to the reduction of an indemnification asset. The 2014 income tax expense included a $73 million net benefit and excluded a $50 million tax benefit associated with the reduction of the same indemnification asset and $9 million of net noncash benefits described above. The 2013 results excluded the financial impact of the Charitable Contribution, but included the $39 million pre-tax nonoperating gain related to the PennyMac IPO. The 2013 income tax expense included a benefit of approximately $29 million and benefits from certain nonrecurring items and excluded the $69 million net noncash benefit, described above. Diluted earnings per common share rose $2.76, or 17%, from 2013.   
 See  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  for further information on as adjusted items.  
 For further discussion of BlackRock s revenue, expense, nonoperating results and income tax expense, see  Discussion of Financial Results  herein.  

Business Outlook  
 BlackRock's framework for long-term value creation is predicated on generating differentiated organic growth, leveraging scale to increase operating margins over time, and returning capital to shareholders on a consistent basis.   BlackRock's diversified platform, in terms of style, product, client and geography, enables it to generate more stable cash flows through market cycles, positioning BlackRock to invest for the long-term by striking an appropriate balance between investing for future growth and practical discretionary expense management. 
 BlackRock s highly diversified multi-product platform was created to meet the needs of its clients in all market environments. BlackRock is positioned to provide active and index investment solutions across asset classes and geographies and leverage  BlackRock Solutions   world-class risk management, analytics and advisory capabilities on behalf of clients. BlackRock serves a diverse mix of institutional and retail clients across the globe, including investors in  iShares  ETFs, maintaining differentiated client relationships and a fiduciary focus.  
 BlackRock s Retail strategy is focused on an outcome-oriented approach to creating client solutions, including active, index and alternative products, and enhanced distribution. In the United States, BlackRock is leveraging its integrated wholesaler force to further penetrate wirehouse distribution platforms and gain share among registered investment advisors. Internationally, BlackRock continues to diversify the range of investment solutions available to clients, penetrate new distribution channels and capitalize on regulatory change impacting retrocession arrangements.  
 iShares  growth strategy is centered on increasing global  iShares  market share and driving global market expansion. BlackRock intends to achieve these goals by pursuing global growth themes in client and product segments including core investments, fixed income, financial instruments and precision exposures.   
 BlackRock believes Institutional results will be driven by strength in specialty areas, including Defined Contribution, Financial Institutions, Official Institutions and Foundations, Family Offices and Endowments; deepening client relationships through effective cross-selling efforts; enhancing BlackRock s solutions-oriented approach and leveraging  BlackRock Solutions   analytical and risk management expertise.  

Non-GAAP Financial Measures  
 BlackRock reports its financial results in accordance with GAAP; however, management believes evaluating the Company s ongoing operating results may be enhanced if investors have additional non-GAAP financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and, for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock s financial performance over time. Management also uses non-GAAP financial measures as a benchmark to compare its performance with other companies and to enhance the comparability of this information for the reporting periods presented. Non-GAAP measures may pose limitations because they do not include all of BlackRock s revenue and expense. BlackRock s management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  
 Management uses both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures in evaluating BlackRock s financial performance. Adjustments to GAAP financial measures ( non-GAAP adjustments ) include certain items management deems nonrecurring or occur infrequently, transactions that ultimately will not impact BlackRock s book value or certain tax items that do not impact cash flow.  
 32 
 
    Computations for all periods are derived from the consolidated statements of income as follows:   
  (1) Operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted:   
 Management believes operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, are effective indicators of BlackRock s financial performance over time and, therefore, provide useful disclosure to investors.  

Operating income, as adjusted,  includes non-GAAP expense adjustments. The portion of compensation expense associated with certain long-term incentive plans ( LTIP ) funded, or to be funded, through share distributions to participants of BlackRock stock held by PNC has been excluded because it ultimately does not impact BlackRock s book value. Compensation expense associated with appreciation (depreciation) on investments related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans has been excluded as returns on investments set aside for these plans, which substantially offset this expense, are reported in nonoperating income (expense).  In 2014, general and administration expense relating to the reduction of an indemnification asset has been excluded since it is directly offset by a tax benefit of the same amount and, consequently, does not impact BlackRock s book value.  In 2013, the $124 million expense related to the Charitable Contribution was excluded from operating income, as adjusted, due to its nonrecurring nature and because the noncash, nonoperating pre-tax gain of $80 million directly related to the contributed PennyMac investment is reported in nonoperating income (expense).     

Operating income used for measuring operating margin, as adjusted, is equal to operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of product launch costs (e.g. closed-end fund launch costs) and related commissions. Management believes the exclusion of such costs and related commissions is useful because these costs can fluctuate considerably and revenue associated with the expenditure of these costs will not fully impact BlackRock s results until future periods.     

 Revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, excludes distribution and servicing costs paid to related parties and other third parties. Management believes the exclusion of such costs is useful because it creates consistency in the treatment for certain contracts for similar services, which due to the terms of the contracts, are accounted for under GAAP on a net basis within investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue. Amortization of deferred sales commissions is excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because such costs, over time, substantially offset distribution fee revenue the Company earns. For each of these items, BlackRock excludes from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, the costs related to each of these items as a proxy for such offsetting revenue.  
  (2) Nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted:   
 Nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, equals nonoperating income (expense), GAAP basis, less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, adjusted for compensation expense associated with (appreciation) depreciation on investments related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans. The compensation expense offset is recorded in operating income. This compensation expense has been included in nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, to offset returns on investments set aside for these plans, which are reported in nonoperating income (expense), GAAP basis.  
 During 2013, the noncash, nonoperating pre-tax gain of $80 million related to the contributed PennyMac investment was excluded from nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted due to its nonrecurring nature and because the more than offsetting associated Charitable Contribution expense of $124 million is reported in operating income.  

33 
 
    (3) N  et income attributable to BlackRock, as adjusted:   

See the aforementioned discussion regarding operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, for information on the PNC LTIP funding obligation and the Charitable Contribution.  
 For each period presented, the non-GAAP adjustment related to the PNC LTIP funding obligation was tax effected at the respective blended rates applicable to the adjustments. Amounts for 2013 included a tax benefit of approximately $48 million recognized in connection with the Charitable Contribution. The tax benefit has been excluded from net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted due to the nonrecurring nature of the Charitable Contribution.  
 Non-GAAP income tax matters adjustments for 2015, 2014 and 2013 reflected the revaluation of deferred income tax liabilities. The amount for 2015 included a $54 million net noncash benefit, primarily related to the impact of legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and state and local income tax changes. The amount for 2014 included a $9 million net noncash tax benefit arising primarily from state and local income tax changes. The amount for 2013 included a $69 million noncash tax benefit, primarily related to the impact of legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and state and local income tax changes. Such amounts for 2015, 2014 and 2013 have been excluded from as adjusted results as they will not have a cash flow impact and to ensure comparability among periods presented.  
 (4) Nonvoting participating preferred stock is considered to be a common stock equivalent for purposes of determining basic and diluted earnings per share calculations.  

34 
 
    Assets Under Management   
 AUM for reporting purposes generally is based upon how investment advisory and administration fees are calculated for each portfolio. Net asset values, total assets, committed assets or other measures may be used to determine portfolio AUM.  
 AUM and Net Inflows (Outflows) by Client Type  

AUM and Net Inflows (Outflows) by Product Type  

AUM and Net Inflows (Outflows) by Investment Style  

(1)   
 
 Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.      

(2)   
 
 Amounts include commodity  iShares .     

 The following table presents the component changes in BlackRock s AUM for 2015, 2014 and 2013.  

(1)   
 
 Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.     

(2)   
 
   Amounts for 2015 represent $1.3 billion of AUM acquired in the acquisition of certain assets of BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors LLC ( BKCA ) in March 2015, $560 million of AUM acquired in the Infraestructura Institucional acquisition in October 2015 and $366 million of AUM acquired in the FutureAdvisor acquisition in October     

 35 

2015.    The FutureAdvisor acquisition amount does not include   AUM t  hat was held in     iShares   h  oldings.     A  mounts   for 2013   represent   $16.0 billion of AUM acquired in   the Credit Suisse ETF franchise in July 2013 (the  Credit Suisse ETF Transaction     )   and $11.0 billion of AUM acquired in the MGPA   acquisition in October 2013.     

(3)   
 
 Foreign exchange reflects the impact of translating non-U.S. dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.     

 BlackRock has historically grown AUM through organic growth and acquisitions. Management believes that the Company will be able to continue to grow AUM organically by focusing on strong investment performance, efficient delivery of beta for index products, client service, developing new products and optimizing distribution capabilities.  
 Component Changes in AUM for 2015  
 The following table presents the component changes in AUM by client type and product type for 2015.  

(1)   
 
 Amounts represent $1.3 billion of AUM acquired in the acquisition of certain assets of BKCA in March 2015, $560 million of AUM acquired in the Infraestructura Institucional acquisition in October 2015 and $366 million of AUM acquired in the FutureAdvisor acquisition in October 2015. The FutureAdvisor acquisition amount does not include AUM that was held in  iShares  holdings.    

(2)   
 
 Foreign exchange reflects the impact of translating non-U.S. dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.     

(3)   
 
 Average AUM is calculated as the average of the month-end spot AUM amounts for the trailing thirteen months.     

(4)   
 
 Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.     

 36 
 
    The following table presents component changes in AUM by product   type   for 2015.   

(1)   
 
 Amounts represent $1.3 billion of AUM acquired in the acquisition of certain assets of BKCA in March 2015, $560 million of AUM acquired in the Infraestructura Institucional acquisition in October 2015 and $366 million of AUM acquired in the FutureAdvisor acquisition in October 2015. The FutureAdvisor acquisition amount does not include AUM that was held in  iShares  holdings.    

(2)   
 
 Foreign exchange reflects the impact of translating non-U.S. dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.     

(3  )   
 
 Average AUM is calculated as the average of the month-end spot AUM amounts for the trailing thirteen months.     

(4  )   
 
 Amounts include commodity  iShares .     

(5  )   
 
 Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.     

The following table presents component changes in AUM by investment style for 2015. 

(1)   
 
 Amounts represent $1.3 billion of AUM acquired in the acquisition of certain assets of BKCA in March 2015, $560 million of AUM acquired in the Infraestructura Institucional acquisition in October 2015 and $366 million of AUM acquired in the FutureAdvisor acquisition in October 2015. The FutureAdvisor acquisition amount does not include AUM that was held in  iShares  holdings.    

(2)   
 
 Foreign exchange reflects the impact of translating non-U.S. dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.     

(3  )   
 
 Average AUM is calculated as the average of the month-end spot AUM amounts for the trailing thirteen months.     

(4  )   
 
 Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.    

 AUM decreased $6.5 billion to $4.645 trillion at December 31, 2015 from $4.652 trillion at December 31, 2014 driven largely by foreign exchange movements and net market depreciation that more than offset organic growth.  
 Net market depreciation of $57.5 billion was driven by $35.3 billion from equity products due to lower U.S. and global equity markets and $12.1 billion from fixed income products. 
 AUM decreased $101.1 billion due to the impact of foreign exchange movements, primarily resulting from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, the British pound and the Canadian dollar.  
 For further discussion on AUM, see  Item 1. Business   Assets Under Management .    
 37 
 
    Component Changes in AUM for 2014   
 The following table presents the component changes in AUM by client type and product type for 2014.  

(1)   
 
 Foreign exchange reflects the impact of translating non-U.S. dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.     

(2)   
 
 Average AUM is calculated as the average of the month-end spot AUM amounts for the trailing thirteen months.     

(3)   
 
 Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.     

 The following table presents component changes in AUM by product type for 2014.  

(1)   
 
 Foreign exchange reflects the impact of translating non-U.S. dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.     

(2)   
 
 Average AUM is calculated as the average of the month-end spot AUM amounts for the trailing thirteen months.     

(3)   
 
 Amounts include commodity  iShares .     

(4)   
 
 Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.     

38 
 
    The following table presents c  omponent changes in AUM by   investment style   for 201  4.  

(1)   
 
 Foreign exchange reflects the impact of translating non-U.S. dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.     

(2)   
 
 Average AUM is calculated as the average of the month-end spot AUM amounts for the trailing thirteen months.     

(3  )   
 
 Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.     

 AUM increased $327.8 billion, or 8%, to $4.652 trillion at December 31, 2014 from $4.324 trillion at December 31, 2013. The increase in AUM was driven by net market appreciation of $261.7 billion and net inflows of $193.8 billion, partially offset by foreign exchange movements.  
 Net market appreciation of $261.7 billion included $140.8 billion of growth in equity products primarily due to higher U.S. equity markets, and appreciation of $98.8 billion and $21.0 billion in fixed income and multi-asset products, respectively, across the majority of strategies.  
 AUM decreased $127.7 billion from foreign exchange movements, primarily resulting from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, the British pound and the Japanese yen.  

Discussion of Financial Results  
 Introduction  
 BlackRock derives a substantial portion of its revenue from investment advisory and administration fees, which are recognized as the services are performed. Such fees are primarily based on predetermined percentages of the market value of AUM or percentages of committed capital during investment periods of certain alternative products and are affected by changes in AUM, including market appreciation or depreciation, foreign exchange translation and net inflows or outflows. Net inflows or outflows represent the sum of new client assets, additional fundings from existing clients (including dividend reinvestment), withdrawals of assets from, and termination of, client accounts and distributions to investors representing return of capital and return on investments to investors. Market appreciation or depreciation includes current income earned on, and changes in the fair value of, securities held in client accounts. Foreign exchange translation reflects the impact of translating non-U.S. dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.  
 BlackRock also earns revenue by lending securities on behalf of clients to highly rated banks and broker-dealers. The securities loaned are secured by collateral in the form of cash or securities, with minimum collateral generally ranging from approximately 102% to 112% of the value of the loaned securities. Generally, the revenue earned is shared between BlackRock and the funds or accounts managed by the Company from which the securities are borrowed. Historically, securities lending revenue in the second quarter exceeds the other quarters during the year driven by higher seasonal demand.  
 Investment advisory agreements for certain separate accounts and investment funds provide for performance fees based upon relative and/or absolute investment performance, in addition to base fees based on AUM. Investment advisory performance fees generally are earned after a given period of time and when investment performance exceeds a contractual threshold. As such, the timing of recognition of performance fees may increase the volatility of BlackRock s revenue and earnings. The magnitude of performance fees can fluctuate quarterly due to the timing of carried interest recognition on alternative products; however, the third and fourth quarters have a greater number of nonalternative products with performance measurement periods that end on either September 30 or December 31.  
 BlackRock provides a variety of risk management, investment analytic and investment system and advisory services to financial institutions, pension funds, asset managers, foundations, consultants, mutual fund sponsors, real estate investment trusts and government agencies. These services are provided under the brand name  BlackRock Solutions  and include a wide array of risk management services, valuation services related to illiquid securities, disposition and workout assignments (including long-term portfolio liquidation assignments), strategic planning and execution, and enterprise investment system outsourcing to clients. The Company s  Aladdin  operating platform serves as the investment/risk solutions system for BlackRock and other institutional investors. Fees earned for  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory services are determined using some, or all, of the following methods: (i) percentages of various attributes of advisory AUM or value of positions on the  Aladdin  platform, (ii) fixed fees and (iii) performance fees if contractual thresholds are met.  
 BlackRock builds upon its leadership position to meet the growing need for investment and risk management solutions. Through its scale and diversity of products, it is able to provide its clients with customized solutions including fiduciary outsourcing for liability-driven investments and overlay strategies for pension plan sponsors, balance sheet management and related services for insurance companies and target date and target return funds, as well as asset allocation portfolios, for retail investors. BlackRock is also able to service these clients via its  Aladdin  platform to provide risk management and other outsourcing services for institutional investors and custom and tailored solutions to address complex risk exposures.  
 The Company earns fees for transition management services primarily comprised of commissions from acting as a broker-dealer in connection with buying and selling securities on behalf of its customers. Commissions related to transition management services are recorded on a trade-date basis as securities transactions occur.  
 The Company also earns revenue related to certain strategic investments accounted for as equity method investments.  
 39 
 
    Operating expense reflects employee compensation and benefits, distribution and servicing costs, amortization of deferred sales commissions, direct fund expense, general and administration expense and amortization of finite-lived intangible assets.   

Employee compensation and benefits expense includes salaries, commissions, temporary help, deferred and incentive compensation, employer payroll taxes, severance and related benefit costs.     

Distribution and servicing costs, which are primarily AUM driven, include payments made to Merrill Lynch-affiliated entities under a global distribution agreement, to PNC and Barclays, as well as other third parties, primarily associated with obtaining and retaining client investments in certain BlackRock products.     

Direct fund expense primarily consists of third-party nonadvisory expense incurred by BlackRock related to certain funds for the use of index trademarks, reference data for indices, custodial services, fund administration, fund accounting, transfer agent services, shareholder reporting services, legal expense, audit and tax services as well as other fund-related expense directly attributable to the nonadvisory operations of the fund. These expenses may vary over time with fluctuations in AUM, number of shareholder accounts, or other attributes directly related to volume of business.     

 General and administration expense includes marketing and promotional, occupancy and office-related costs, portfolio services (including clearing expense related to transition management services), technology, professional services, communications, closed-end fund launch costs and other general and administration expense, including the impact of foreign currency remeasurement. Foreign currency remeasurement (gains) losses were $(8) million, $(11) million and $1 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  
 Approximately 75% of the Company s revenue is generated in U.S. dollars. The Company s revenue and expense generated in foreign currencies (primarily the euro and British pound) are impacted by foreign exchange rates. Any effect of foreign exchange rate change on revenue is partially offset by a change in expense driven by the Company s considerable non-dollar expense base related to its operations outside the United States.  
 Nonoperating income (expense) includes the effect of changes in the valuations on investments (excluding available-for-sale investments) and earnings on equity method investments as well as interest and dividend income and interest expense. Other comprehensive income includes changes in valuations related to available-for-sale investments. BlackRock primarily holds seed and co-investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including private equity, hedge funds and real estate. Investments generally are made for co-investment purposes, to establish a performance track record or for regulatory purposes, including Federal Reserve Bank stock. BlackRock does not engage in proprietary trading activities that could conflict with the interests of its clients.  
 In addition, nonoperating income (expense) includes the impact of changes in the valuations of consolidated sponsored investment funds. The portion of nonoperating income (expense) not attributable to BlackRock is allocated to NCI on the consolidated statements of income.  
 Revenue  
 The following table presents the Company s revenue for 2015, 2014 and 2013.  

40 
 
    The ta  ble below lists the asset type mix of investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue (collectively  base fees ) and mix of average AUM by   product type  :   

(1)   
 
 Average AUM is calculated as the average of the month-end spot AUM amounts for the trailing thirteen months.     

 41 
 
    2015 Compared with 2014   
 Revenue increased $320 million, or 3%, from 2014, driven by higher base fees and growth in performance fees. 
  Investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue  of $9,840 million for 2015 increased $251 million from $9,589 million in 2014 primarily driven by organic growth, despite the impact of foreign exchange and market volatility. Securities lending revenue increased $36 million from 2014 to $513 million in 2015, reflecting an increase in average balances of securities on loan.  
  Investment advisory performance fees  were $621 million in 2015 compared with $550 million in 2014. The current year reflected higher fees from equity products and strong 2015 performance from a single hedge fund with an annual performance measurement period that ended in the third quarter of 2015. The prior year reflected a large fee associated with the liquidation of a closed-end mortgage fund in 2014.  
  BlackRock Solutions   and advisory revenue   in 2015 totaled $646 million compared with $635 million in 2014. The current year reflected higher revenue from  Aladdin  mandates and lower revenue from disposition-related advisory assignments.  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenue included $528 million in  Aladdin  revenue compared with $474 million in 2014.   
 2014 Compared with 2013  
 Revenue increased $901 million, or 9%, from 2013, reflecting growth in markets, long-term net inflows and strength in  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenue.  
  Investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue  of $9,589 million for 2014 increased $850 million from $8,739 million in 2013 due to higher long-term average AUM, reflecting organic growth and market appreciation. Securities lending revenue increased $30 million from 2013 to $477 million in 2014.  
  BlackRock Solutions   and advisory revenue   in 2014 totaled $635 million compared with $577 million in 2013. The year ended 2014 reflected higher revenue from  Aladdin  mandates and higher revenue from advisory assignments.  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenue included $474 million in  Aladdin  revenue compared with $433 million in 2013.   
 Expense  
 The following table presents the Company s expense for 2015, 2014 and 2013.  

42 

2015 Compared with 2014  
 GAAP . Expense increased $130 million, or 2%, from 2014, primarily reflecting higher revenue-related expense, including compensation and benefits expense, and distribution and servicing costs, partially offset by lower general and administration expense and amortization of intangible assets. Expense for 2014 included an expense related to a $50 million reduction of an indemnification asset.  
  Employee compensation and benefits expense  increased $176 million, or 5%, to $4,005 million in 2015 from $3,829 million in 2014, reflecting higher headcount, and higher incentive and deferred compensation, partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange movements. Employees at December 31, 2015 totaled approximately 13,000 compared with approximately 12,200 at December 31, 2014.  
   Distribution and servicing costs   totaled $409 million in 2015 compared with $364 million in 2014. These costs included payments to Bank of America/Merrill Lynch under a global distribution agreement and payments to PNC, as well as other third parties, primarily associated with the distribution and servicing of client investments in certain BlackRock products. Distribution and servicing costs for 2015 and 2014 included $194 million and $183 million, respectively, attributable to Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.   
  General and administration expense  decreased $73 million   from 2014, primarily reflecting the previously mentioned $50 million reduction of an indemnification asset, lower marketing and promotional expense, and lower legal and regulatory expense, partially offset by the impact of transaction-related expense.  
  Amortization of intangible assets expense  decreased $29 million, or 18%, to $128 million in 2015   from $157 million in 2014, reflecting certain finite-lived intangible assets becoming fully amortized. 
 As Adjusted . Expense, as adjusted, increased $188 million, or 3%, to $6,706 million in 2015 from $6,518 million in 2014. The increase in total expense, as adjusted, is primarily attributable to higher revenue-related expense, including compensation and benefits expense and distribution and servicing costs, partially offset by lower amortization of intangible assets and lower general and administration expense. Amounts related to the reduction of the indemnification asset in 2014 have been excluded from as adjusted results.   
 2014 Compared with 2013  
 GAAP . Expense increased $284 million, or 4%, from 2013, primarily reflecting higher revenue-related expenses, including compensation and direct fund expense and a $50 million reduction of an indemnification asset. Expense for 2013 included the $124 million expense related to the Charitable Contribution.   
  Employee compensation and benefits expense  increased $269 million, or 8%, to $3,829 million in 2014 from $3,560 million in 2013, reflecting higher headcount and higher incentive compensation driven by higher operating income. Employees at December 31, 2014 totaled approximately 12,200 compared with approximately 11,400 at December 31, 2013.  
   Distribution and servicing costs   totaled $364 million in 2014 compared with $353 million in 2013.  Distribution and servicing costs for 2014 and 2013 included $183 million and $184 million, respectively, attributable to Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.   
  Direct fund expense  increased $91 million, reflecting higher average AUM, primarily related to  iShares , where BlackRock pays certain nonadvisory expense of the funds.  
  General and administration expense  decreased $87 million, primarily due to the $124 million related to the Charitable Contribution incurred in 2013 and foreign currency remeasurement, partially offset by the $50 million reduction of an indemnification asset.  
 As Adjusted . Expense, as adjusted, increased $362 million, or 6%, to $6,518 million in 2014 from $6,156 million in 2013. The increase in total expense, as adjusted, is primarily attributable to higher employee compensation and benefits and direct fund expense. Amounts related to the reduction of the indemnification asset and the Charitable Contribution have been excluded from as adjusted results.   
 Nonoperating Results  
 Nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI for 2015, 2014 and 2013 was as follows:  

(1)   
 
 Amounts included a gain of $58 million and a loss of $41 million attributable to consolidated variable interest entities ( VIEs ) for 2015 and 2014, respectively. During 2013, the Company did not record any nonoperating income (loss) or net income (loss) attributable to VIEs on the consolidated statements of income.     

(2)   
 
 Net of net income (loss) attributable to NCI.     

 43 
 
       The components of nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI for 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows:   

(1)   
 
 Net of net income (loss) attributable to NCI. Amounts for 2015 also include net gain (loss) on consolidated VIEs.     

(2)   
 
 Amounts primarily include net gains (losses) related to direct hedge fund strategies and hedge fund solutions. The prior year periods also included net gains related to opportunistic credit strategies.     

(3)   
 
 Amounts include net gains (losses) related to equity and fixed income investments, and BlackRock s seed capital hedging program.     

(4)   
 
 The amount for 2015 primarily includes a gain related to the acquisition of certain assets of BKCA.     

 2015 Compared with 2014  
 BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors LLC .    On March 6, 2015, BlackRock acquired certain assets related to managing BlackRock Capital Investment Corporation (formerly known as BlackRock Kelso Capital Corporation) from BKCA. In connection with the acquisition, BlackRock recorded a noncash, nonoperating, pre-tax gain of $40 million related to the fair value of its pre-existing interest in BKCA. See Note 9,  Goodwill,  and Note 10,  Intangible Assets , for further discussion on the BKCA acquisition.   
 Net gains on investments of $109 million in 2015 decreased $45 million from 2014 due to lower net positive marks in 2015. Net gains on investments in 2015 included a $40 million gain related to the BKCA acquisition and a $35 million unrealized gain on a private equity investment. Net gains on investments in 2014 included the positive impact of the monetization of a nonstrategic, opportunistic private equity investment.  
 Interest expense decreased $28 million from 2014 primarily due to repayments of long-term borrowings in the fourth quarter of 2014. 
 2014 Compared with 2013  
 Net gains on investments of $154 million in 2014 decreased $132 million from 2013. Net gains on investments in 2013 included the noncash, nonoperating pre-tax gain of $80 million related to the Charitable Contribution and the $39 million pre-tax gain related to the PennyMac IPO. Net gains on investments in 2014 included the positive impact of the monetization of a nonstrategic, opportunistic private equity investment.  
 Net interest expense increased $14 million from 2013 primarily due to higher interest expense resulting from a long-term debt issuance in March 2014.  
 For further information on the Company s long-term debt, see  Liquidity and Capital Resources  herein.  
   
 Income Tax Expense  

(1)   
 
 Net of net income (loss) attributable to NCI.     

 The Company s tax rate is affected by tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and the relative amount of income earned in those jurisdictions, which the Company expects to be fairly consistent in the near term. The significant foreign jurisdictions, which have lower statutory tax rates than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35%, include the United Kingdom, Channel Islands, Canada and the Netherlands. U.S. income taxes were not provided for certain undistributed foreign earnings intended to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States.  
 44 
 
    2015.   Income tax expense   (GAAP)   reflected:  

o   
 
  a net noncash benefit of $54 million, primarily associated with the revaluation of certain deferred income tax liabilities; and     

o   
 
  a benefit from $75 million of nonrecurring items.      

 The as adjusted effective tax rate of 28.4% for 2015 excluded the net noncash benefit of $54 million mentioned above, as it will not have a cash flow impact and to ensure comparability among periods presented. 
 2014.  Income tax expense (GAAP) reflected:  

o   
 
  a $94 million tax benefit, primarily due to the resolution of certain outstanding tax matters related to the acquisition of BGI, including the previously mentioned $50 million tax benefit (see   Executive Summary   for more information);     

o   
 
  a $73 million net tax benefit related to several favorable nonrecurring items; and     

o   
 
  a net noncash benefit of $9 million associated with the revaluation of deferred income tax liabilities.     

 The as adjusted effective tax rate of 26.6% for 2014 excluded the $9 million net noncash benefit as it will not have a cash flow impact and to ensure comparability among periods presented and $50 million tax benefit mentioned above. The $50 million general and administrative expense and $50 million tax benefit have been excluded from as adjusted results as there is no impact on BlackRock s book value.  
 2013.  Income tax expense (GAAP) reflected:  

o   
 
  a $69 million net noncash benefit primarily related to the revaluation of certain deferred income tax liabilities related to intangible assets and goodwill, including the effect of legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and domestic state and local income tax changes;     

o   
 
  a tax benefit of approximately $48 million recognized in connection with the Charitable Contribution; and     

o   
 
  a tax benefit of approximately $29 million, primarily due to the realization of tax loss carryforwards, and benefits from certain nonrecurring items.     

 The as adjusted effective tax rate of 28.5% for 2013 excluded the $69 million net noncash benefit and the $48 million tax benefit related to the Charitable Contribution mentioned above.  

Balance Sheet Overview  
 As Adjusted Balance Sheet  
 The following table presents a reconciliation of the consolidated statement of financial condition presented on a GAAP basis to the consolidated statement of financial condition, excluding the impact of separate account assets and separate account collateral held under securities lending agreements (directly related to lending separate account securities) and separate account liabilities and separate account collateral liabilities under securities lending agreements and consolidated sponsored investment funds, including consolidated VIEs.  
 The Company presents the as adjusted balance sheet as additional information to enable investors to exclude certain assets that have equal and offsetting liabilities or noncontrolling interests that ultimately do not have an impact on stockholders  equity or cash flows. Management views the as adjusted balance sheet, a non-GAAP financial measure, as an economic presentation of the Company s total assets and liabilities; however, it does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  
 Separate Account Assets and Liabilities and Separate Account Collateral Held under Securities Lending Agreements  
 Separate account assets are maintained by BlackRock Life Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, which is a registered life insurance company in the United Kingdom, and represent segregated assets held for purposes of funding individual and group pension contracts. The Company records equal and offsetting separate account liabilities. The separate account assets are not available to creditors of the Company and the holders of the pension contracts have no recourse to the Company s assets. The net investment income attributable to separate account assets accrues directly to the contract owners and is not reported on the Company s consolidated statements of income. While BlackRock has no economic interest in these assets or liabilities, BlackRock earns an investment advisory fee for the service of managing these assets on behalf of its clients.  
 In addition, the Company records on its consolidated statements of financial condition the separate account collateral received under BlackRock Life Limited securities lending arrangements as its own asset in addition to an equal and offsetting separate account collateral liability for the obligation to return the collateral. The collateral is not available to creditors of the Company, and the borrowers under the securities lending arrangements have no recourse to the Company s assets.  
 Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds  
 The Company consolidates certain sponsored investment funds accounted for as voting rights entities ( VREs ) and VIEs, (collectively,  Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds ). See Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies , in the notes to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K for further information of the Company s consolidation policy.    
 45 
 
    The Company cannot readily access cash and cash equivalents or other assets held by   Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds   to use in its operating activities. In addition, the Company cannot readily sell investments held by   Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds   in order to obtain cash for use in the Company s operations.   

(1)   
 
 Amounts represent segregated client assets generating advisory fees in which BlackRock has no economic interest or liability.     

(2)   
 
 Amounts represent the portion of assets and liabilities of Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds attributable to NCI.     

(3)   
 
 Amounts include property and equipment and other assets.       

(4)   
 
 Amount includes approximately $5.6 billion of deferred income tax liabilities related to goodwill and intangibles.  See Note 20,  Income Taxes , in the notes to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K for more information.    

 The following discussion summarizes the significant changes in assets and liabilities on a GAAP basis. Please see the consolidated statements of financial condition as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 contained in Part II, Item 8 of this filing. The discussion does not include changes related to assets and liabilities that are equal and offsetting and have no impact on BlackRock s stockholders  equity.  
 Assets.  Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2015 and 2014 included $100 million and $120 million, respectively, of cash held by consolidated sponsored investment funds (see   Liquidity and Capital Resources   for details on the change in cash and cash equivalents during 2015).   
 Accounts receivable at December 31, 2015 increased $117 million from December 31, 2014 due to an increase in unit trust receivables (substantially offset by an increase in unit trust payables recorded within accounts payable and accrued liabilities) and higher performance fee receivables. Investments were $1,578 million at December 31, 2015 (for more information see  Investments  herein). Goodwill and intangible assets increased $190 million from December 31, 2014, primarily due to the BKCA, Infraestructura Institucional and FutureAdvisor acquisitions,   partially offset by $128 million of amortization of intangible assets. Other assets (including property, plant and equipment) increased $284 million from December 31, 2014, primarily related to an increase in property and equipment, higher earnings from certain strategic investments, and an increase in current taxes receivable.  
 Liabilities.  Accrued compensation and benefits at December 31, 2015 increased $106 million from December 31, 2014, primarily due to 2015 incentive compensation accruals. Accounts payable and accrued liabilities at December 31, 2015 increased $33 million from December 31, 2014 due to higher unit trust payables (substantially offset by an increase in unit trust receivables recorded within accounts receivable) and increased accruals, partially offset by a decrease in current income taxes payable.   
 Net deferred income tax liabilities at December 31, 2015 decreased $138 million, primarily due to the effects of temporary differences associated with stock compensation, the BKCA acquisition, realization of loss carryforwards, and goodwill and intangibles. Other liabilities increased $147 million from December 31, 2014, primarily resulting from an increase in uncertain tax positions and consolidated funds liabilities.  
 46 
 
    Investments and Investments of Consolidated VIEs   
 The Company s investments and investments of consolidated VIEs (collectively,  Total Investments ) were $1,578 million and $1,030 million, respectively, at December 31, 2015. Total Investments include consolidated investments held by sponsored investment funds accounted for as VREs and VIEs. Management reviews BlackRock s Total Investments on an  economic  basis, which eliminates the portion of Total Investments that does not impact BlackRock s book value or net income attributable to BlackRock. BlackRock s management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  
 The Company presents Total Investments, as adjusted, to enable investors to understand the portion of its Total Investments that is owned by the Company, net of NCI, as a gauge to measure the impact of changes in net nonoperating income (expense) on investments to net income (loss) attributable to BlackRock.  
 The Company further presents net  economic  investment exposure, net of deferred compensation investments and hedged investments, to reflect another gauge for investors.  The economic impact of Total Investments held pursuant to deferred compensation arrangements is substantially offset by a change in compensation expense. The impact of certain investments is substantially mitigated by swap hedges. Carried interest capital allocations are excluded as there is no impact to BlackRock s stockholders  equity until such amounts are realized as performance fees. Finally, the Company s regulatory investment in Federal Reserve Bank stock, which is not subject to market or interest rate risk, is excluded from the Company s net economic investment exposure.  

(1)   
 
 Amounts represent investments held in sponsored investment funds that are consolidated in accordance with GAAP as either a VIE or VRE. See Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies , for further information on the Company s consolidation policy and the 2015 adoption of ASU 2015-02.    

(2)   
 
 Amount includes $81 million of carried interest (VIEs), which has no impact on the Company s  economic  investment exposure.    

 The following table represents the carrying value of the Company s economic investment exposure, by asset type, at December 31, 2015 and 2014:  

(1)   
 
 Other alternatives include distressed credit/mortgage funds/opportunistic funds and hedge funds/funds of hedge funds.     

(2)   
 
 Other investments primarily include seed investments in fixed income, equity and multi-asset mutual funds/strategies as well as U.K. government securities, primarily held for regulatory purposes.     

 As adjusted investment activity for 2015 was as follows:  

(1)   
 
 Amounts include distributions representing return of capital and return on investments.     

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  
 BlackRock Cash Flows Excluding the Impact of Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds 
   The consolidated statements of cash flows include the cash flows of the Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds. The Company uses an adjusted cash flow statement, which excludes the impact of Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds, as a supplemental non-GAAP measure to assess liquidity and capital requirements. The Company believes that its cash flows, excluding the impact of the Consolidated  
 47 
 
  Sponsored Investment Funds  , provide investors with useful information on the cash flows of   BlackRock relating to its ability to fund additional operating, investing and financing activities. BlackRock s management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, its cash flows presented   in accordance with GAAP.   
 The following table presents a reconciliation of the consolidated statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis to the consolidated statements of cash flows, excluding the impact of the cash flows of Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds:  

Sources of BlackRock s operating cash primarily include investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue, performance fees, revenue from  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory products and services, other revenue and distribution fees. BlackRock uses its cash to pay all operating expense, interest and principal on borrowings, income taxes, dividends on BlackRock s capital stock, repurchases of the Company s stock, capital expenditures and purchases of co-investments and seed investments.  
 Cash flows from operating activities, excluding the impact of Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds, primarily include the receipt of investment advisory and administration fees, securities lending revenue and other revenue offset by the payment of operating expenses incurred in the normal course of business, including year-end incentive compensation accrued for in the prior year.  
 Cash outflows from investing activities, excluding the impact of Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds, for 2015 were $309 million and primarily reflected $412 million of investment purchases, $221 million of purchases of property and equipment and $273 million related to certain acquisitions, partially offset by $531 million of net proceeds from sales and maturities of certain investments. 
 Cash outflows from financing activities, excluding the impact of Consolidated Sponsored Investment Funds, for 2015 were $2,548 million, primarily resulting from $1.3 billion of share repurchases, including $1.1 billion in open-market transactions and $231 million of employee tax withholdings related to employee stock transactions and $1.5 billion of cash dividend payments, partially offset by $126 million of proceeds from stock options and $105 million of excess tax benefits from vested stock-based compensation awards. 
 The Company manages its financial condition and funding to maintain appropriate liquidity for the business. Liquidity resources at December 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows:  

(1)      
 
 The percentage of cash and cash equivalents held by the Company s U.S. subsidiaries was approximately 50% at both December 31, 2015 and 2014.  See  Net Capital Requirements  herein for more information on net capital requirements in certain regulated subsidiaries.    

(2)      
 
 The Company cannot readily access such cash to use in its operating activities.     

(  3  )   
 
 Amounts do not reflect year-end incentive compensation accruals of approximately $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion for 2015 and 2014, respectively, which were paid in February of the following year.     

 Total liquidity resources increased $390 million during 2015, primarily reflecting cash from operations, partially offset by cash payments of 2014 year-end incentive awards, share repurchases of $1.3 billion and cash dividend payments.  
 A significant portion of the Company s $2,227 million of Total Investments, as adjusted, is illiquid in nature and, as such, cannot be readily convertible to cash.  
 Share Repurchases.  The Company repurchased 3.1 million common shares in open market-transactions under the share repurchase program for approximately $1.1 billion during 2015. At December 31, 2015, there were 6.3 million shares still authorized to be repurchased.  
 48 
 
    Net Capital Requirements.   The Company   is required to maintain net capital in certain regulated subsidiaries within a number of jurisdictions, which is partially maintained by retaining cash and cash equivalent investments in those subsidiaries or jurisdictions. As a result, such subsidiaries o  f the Company may be restricted in their ability to transfer cash between different jurisdictions and to their parents. Additionally, transfers of cash between international jurisdictions, including repatriation to the United States, may have adverse tax c  onsequences that could discourage such transfers.   
 BlackRock Institutional Trust Company, N.A. ( BTC ) is chartered as a national bank that does not accept client deposits and whose powers are limited to trust activities. BTC provides investment management services, including investment advisory and securities lending agency services, to institutional investors and other clients. BTC is subject to regulatory capital and liquid asset requirements administered by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  
 At both December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company was required to maintain approximately $1.1 billion in net capital in certain regulated subsidiaries, including BTC, entities regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority in the United Kingdom, and the Company s broker-dealers.  The Company was in compliance with all applicable regulatory net capital requirements.  
 Undistributed Earnings of Foreign Subsidiaries.  As of December 31, 2015, the Company has not provided for U.S. federal and state income taxes on approximately $4.7 billion of undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries. Such earnings are considered indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. The Company s current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate these funds.   
 Short-Term Borrowings  
 2015 Revolving Credit Facility.  In April 2015, the Company s credit facility was further amended to extend the maturity date to March 2020 and to increase the amount of the aggregate commitment to $4.0 billion (the  2015 credit facility ). The 2015 credit facility permits the Company to request up to an additional $1.0 billion of borrowing capacity, subject to lender credit approval, increasing the overall size of the 2015 credit facility to an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $5.0 billion. Interest on borrowings outstanding accrues at a rate based on the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread. The 2015 credit facility requires the Company not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio (ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, where net debt equals total debt less unrestricted cash) of 3 to 1, which was satisfied with a ratio of less than 1 to 1 at December 31, 2015. The 2015 credit facility provides back-up liquidity to fund ongoing working capital for general corporate purposes and various investment opportunities. At December 31, 2015, the Company had no amount outstanding under the 2015 credit facility.   
 Commercial Paper Program.  The maximum aggregate amount for which the Company could issue unsecured commercial paper notes (the  CP Notes ) on a private-placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $4.0 billion as amended in April 2015. The commercial paper program is currently supported by the 2015 credit facility. At December 31, 2015, BlackRock had no CP Notes outstanding.   
 Long-Term Borrowings.  
 The carrying value of long-term borrowings at December 31, 2015 included the following:  

During 2015, the Company fully repaid $750 million of 1.375% notes at maturity. In May 2015, the Company issued    700 million of 1.25% senior unsecured notes maturing in May 2025. Upon conversion to U.S. dollars the Company designated the  700 million debt offering as a net investment hedge to offset its currency exposure relating to its net investment in certain euro functional currency operations. For more information on Company s borrowings, see Note 12,  Borrowings , in the notes to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.  
 Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies  
 The following table sets forth contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies by year of payment at December 31, 2015:  

49 

(1)   
 
 The amount of contingent payments reflected for any year represents the expected payment amounts using foreign currency exchange rates as of December 31, 2015 under the terms of the business acquisition s agreement. The fair value of the contingent obligations is not significant to the consolidated statement of financial condition and is recorded within other liabilities.     

(2)   
 
 At December 31, 2015, the Company had approximately $350 million of net unrecognized tax benefits. Due to the uncertainty of timing and amounts that will ultimately be paid, this amount has been excluded from the table above.     

 Operating Leases.  The Company leases its primary office locations under agreements that expire on varying dates through 2035. In connection with certain lease agreements, the Company is responsible for escalation payments. The contractual obligations table above includes only guaranteed minimum lease payments for such leases and does not project potential escalation or other lease-related payments. These leases are classified as operating leases and, as such, are not recorded as liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial condition.   
 Purchase Obligations.  In the ordinary course of business, BlackRock enters into contracts or purchase obligations with third parties whereby the third parties provide services to or on behalf of BlackRock. Purchase obligations included in the contractual obligations table above represent executory contracts, which are either noncancelable or cancelable with a penalty. At December 31, 2015, the Company s obligations primarily reflected standard service contracts for portfolio services, market data, office-related services and third-party marketing and promotional services, and obligations for equipment. Purchase obligations are recorded on the consolidated financial statements when services are provided and, as such, obligations for services and equipment not received are not included in the consolidated statement of financial condition at December 31, 2015.   
 Investment Commitments.  At December 31, 2015, the Company had $179 million of various capital commitments to fund sponsored investment funds, including consolidated VIEs.  These funds include private equity funds, real estate funds, infrastructure funds and opportunistic funds. This amount excludes additional commitments made by consolidated funds of funds to underlying third-party funds as third-party noncontrolling interest holders have the legal obligation to fund the respective commitments of such funds of funds. In addition to the capital commitments of $179 million, the Company had approximately $38 million of contingent commitments for certain funds which have investment periods that have expired. Generally, the timing of the funding of these commitments is unknown and the commitments are callable on demand at any time prior to the expiration of the commitment. These unfunded commitments are not recorded on the consolidated statements of financial condition. These commitments do not include potential future commitments approved by the Company that are not yet legally binding. The Company intends to make additional capital commitments from time to time to fund additional investment products for, and with, its clients.   
 Contingent Distribution Obligations.  In November 2010, BlackRock entered into a second amended and restated global distribution agreement with Merrill Lynch, which requires the Company to make payments to Merrill Lynch contingent upon sales of products and level of AUM maintained in certain BlackRock products. The initial term of the agreement remained in effect until January 2014 and was renewed for one automatic three-year extension.   
 Contingent Payments Related to Business Acquisitions . In connection with certain acquisitions, BlackRock is required to make contingent payments, subject to the acquired businesses achieving specified performance targets over a certain period, subsequent to the applicable acquisition date.   
 The fair value of the remaining aggregate contingent payments at December 31, 2015 is included in other liabilities and is not significant to the consolidated statement of financial condition.  
 The following items have not been included in the contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies table:  
 Carried Interest Clawback.  As a general partner in certain investment funds, including private equity partnerships and certain hedge funds, the Company may receive carried interest cash distributions from the partnerships in accordance with distribution provisions of the partnership agreements. The Company may, from time to time, be required to return all or a portion of such distributions to the limited partners in the event the limited partners do not achieve a return as specified in the various partnership agreements. Therefore, BlackRock records carried interest subject to such clawback provisions in Total Investments, or cash/cash of consolidated VIEs to the extent that it is distributed, and as a deferred carried interest liability/other liabilities of consolidated VIEs on its consolidated statements of financial condition. Carried interest is recorded as performance fees on BlackRock s consolidated statements of income upon the earlier of the termination of the investment fund or when the likelihood of clawback is considered mathematically improbable.   
 Indemnifications.  In the ordinary course of business or in connection with certain acquisition agreements, BlackRock enters into contracts pursuant to which it may agree to indemnify third parties in certain circumstances. The terms of these indemnities vary from contract to contract and the amount of indemnification liability, if any, cannot be determined or the likelihood of any liability is considered remote and, therefore, has not been included in the table above or recorded in the consolidated statement of financial condition at December 31, 2015. See further discussion in Note 13,  Commitments and Contingencies , to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.   
 On behalf of certain clients, the Company lends securities to highly rated banks and broker-dealers. In these securities lending transactions, the borrower is required to provide and maintain collateral at or above regulatory minimums. Securities on loan are marked to market daily to determine if the borrower is required to pledge additional collateral. BlackRock has issued certain indemnifications to certain securities lending clients against potential loss resulting from a borrower s failure to fulfill its obligations under the securities lending agreement should the value of the collateral pledged by the borrower at the time of default be insufficient to cover the borrower s obligation under the securities lending agreement. At December 31, 2015, the Company indemnified certain of its clients for their securities lending loan balances of approximately $169.3 billion. The Company held, as agent, cash and securities totaling $179.6 billion as collateral for indemnified securities on loan at December 31, 2015. The fair value of these indemnifications was not material at December 31, 2015.  
 While the collateral pledged by a borrower is intended to be sufficient to offset the borrower s obligations to return securities borrowed and any other amounts owing to the lender under the relevant securities lending agreement, in the event of a borrower default, the Company can give no assurance that the collateral pledged by the borrower will be sufficient to fulfill such obligations. If the amount of such pledged collateral is not sufficient to fulfill such obligations to a client for whom the Company has provided indemnification, BlackRock would be responsible for the amount of the shortfall. These indemnifications cover only the collateral shortfall described above, and do not in any way guarantee, assume or otherwise insure the investment performance or return of any cash collateral vehicle into which securities lending cash collateral is invested.  
 50 
 
    Compensation and Benefit Obligations.   The Company has various compensation and benefit obligations, including bonuses, commissions and incentive payments payable, defined co  ntribution plan matching contribution obligations, and deferred compensation arrangements, that are excluded from the contractual obligations   and commitments table above. Accrued compensation and benefits at December 31, 2015 totaled $  1,971   million and inc  luded incentive compensation of $  1,452   million, deferred compensation of $  266   million and other compensation and benefits related obligations of $  253   million. Substantially all of the incentive compensation liability was paid in the first   quarter of 2016,   while the deferred compensation obligations are generally payable over periods   of   up to five years.   

Critical Accounting Policies  
 The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. Management considers the following critical accounting policies important to understanding the consolidated financial statements. For a summary of these and additional accounting policies see Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies , in the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.  
 Consolidation 
 In the normal course of business, the Company is the manager of various types of sponsored investment vehicles. The Company performs an analysis for investment products to determine if the product is a VIE or a VRE. Assessing whether an entity is a VIE or a VRE involves judgment and analysis. Factors considered in this assessment include the entity s legal organization, the entity s capital structure and equity ownership, and any related party or de facto agent implications of the Company s involvement with the entity. Investments that are determined to be VREs are consolidated if the Company can exert control over the financial and operating policies of the investee, which generally exists if there is greater than 50% voting interest. See Note 4,  Consolidated Voting Right Entities , in the notes to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K for more information. Investments that are determined to be VIEs are consolidated if the Company is the primary beneficiary ( PB ) of the entity. 
 At December 31, 2015, BlackRock was determined to be the PB for certain investment products that were determined to be VIEs, which required BlackRock to consolidate them. BlackRock was deemed to be the PB because it has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entities  economic performance and has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that potentially could be significant to the VIE. See Note 5,  Variable Interest Entities , in the notes to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K for more information. 
 See Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies   Accounting Pronouncements Adopted in 2015 , in the notes to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K for more information on ASU 2015-02. 
 Investments  
 Equity Method Investments . For equity investments where BlackRock does not control the investee, and where it is not the PB of a VIE, but can exert significant influence over the financial and operating policies of the investee, the Company follows the equity method of accounting. The evaluation of whether the Company exerts control or significant influence over the financial and operational policies of its investees requires significant judgment based on the facts and circumstances surrounding each individual investment. Factors considered in these evaluations may include the type of investment, the legal structure of the investee, the terms and structure of the investment agreement, including investor voting or other rights, the terms of BlackRock s advisory agreement or other agreements with the investee, any influence BlackRock may have on the governing board of the investee, the legal rights of other investors in the entity pursuant to the fund s operating documents and the relationship between BlackRock and other investors in the entity.   
 BlackRock s equity method investees that are investment companies record their underlying investments at fair value. Therefore, under the equity method of accounting, BlackRock s share of the investee s underlying net income predominantly represents fair value adjustments in the investments held by the equity method investees. BlackRock s share of the investee s underlying net income or loss is based upon the most currently available information and is recorded as nonoperating income (expense) for investments in investment companies, or as other revenue for certain strategic investments, which are recorded in other assets, since such investees are considered to be an extension of BlackRock s core business.  
 At December 31, 2015, the Company had $527 million and $265 million of equity method investments, including equity method investments held for deferred compensation, reflected within investments and other assets, respectively, and at December 31, 2014, the Company had $654 million and $208 million of equity method investees reflected in investments and other assets, respectively.  
 Impairments of Investments.  Management periodically assesses equity method, available-for-sale, held-to-maturity and cost investments for other-than-temporary Impairment ( OTTI ). If an OTTI exists, an impairment charge is recorded in nonoperating income (expense) on the consolidated statements of the income.  
 For equity method, held-to-maturity and cost method investments, if circumstances indicate that an OTTI may exist, the investments are evaluated using market values, where available, or the expected future cash flows of the investment. If the Company determines an OTTI exists, an impairment charge is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over its estimated fair value.  
   For available-for-sale securities, when the fair value is lower than cost, the Company considers, among other factors, the length of time the security has been in a loss position, the extent to which the security s fair value is less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the security s issuer and the Company s ability and intent to hold the security for a length of time sufficient to allow for recovery of such unrealized losses. For equity securities, if the impairment is considered other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over its fair value. For debt securities, the Company considers whether: (1) it has the intent to sell the security; (2) it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell the security before recovery; or (3) it expects to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If the Company intends to sell the security or it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell the  
 51 
 
  security, the entire difference between the amortized cost and fair value must be recognized in earnings.    If the Company does not intend to sell a security and it is not more likely than not that it will be required t  o sell the security but the security has suffered a  n impairment related to   credit, the credit loss will be bifurcated from the total   decline in value   and recorded in earnings with the remaining portion recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income.   
   
 For the Company s investments in CLOs, the Company reviews cash flow estimates over the life of each CLO investment.  On a quarterly basis, if the present value of the estimated future cash flows is lower than the carrying value of the investment and there is an adverse change in estimated cash flows, an impairment is considered to be other-than-temporary. An impairment charge is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over its estimated fair value. 
 Evaluation of impairments involves significant assumptions and management judgments, which could differ from actual results, and these differences could have a material impact on the consolidated statements of income.  
 Fair Value Measurements  
 The Company s assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement according to the fair value hierarchy (i.e., Level 1, 2 and 3 inputs, as defined) in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the financial instrument. See Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies , in the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K for more information on fair value measurements.  
  Changes in Valuation.   Changes in value on $2,261 million of Total Investments will impact the Company s nonoperating income (expense), $44 million will impact accumulated other comprehensive income, $203 million are held at cost or amortized cost and the remaining $100 million relates to carried interest, which will not impact nonoperating income (expense). At December 31, 2015, changes in fair value of approximately $1,649 million of such consolidated VIEs/VREs will impact BlackRock s net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests on the consolidated statements of income. BlackRock s net exposure to changes in fair value of such consolidated sponsored investment funds was $1,268 million.   
 Goodwill and Intangible Assets  
 The value of advisory contracts acquired in business acquisitions to manage AUM in proprietary open-end investment funds as well as collective trust funds without a specified termination date are classified as indefinite-lived intangible assets. The assignment of indefinite lives to such investment fund contracts is based upon the assumption there is no foreseeable limit on the contract period to manage these funds due to the likelihood of continued renewal at little or no cost. In addition, trade names/trademarks are considered indefinite-lived intangibles as they are expected to generate cash flows indefinitely. Goodwill represents the cost of a business acquisition in excess of the fair value of the net assets acquired. In accordance with the applicable provisions of ASC 350,  Intangibles   Goodwill and Other  ( ASC 350 ), indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized. Finite-lived management contracts, which relate to acquired separate accounts and funds with a specified termination date, are amortized over their remaining expected useful lives, which, at December 31, 2015, ranged from 1 to 9 years with a weighted-average remaining estimated useful life of 3.7 years.  
 Goodwill.  The Company assesses its goodwill for impairment at least annually, considering such factors as the book value and the market capitalization of the Company. The impairment assessment performed as of July 31, 2015 indicated no impairment charge was required. The Company continues to monitor its book value per share compared with closing prices of its common stock for potential indicators of impairment. At December 31, 2015, the Company s common stock closed at $340.52, which exceeded its book value of approximately $172.12 per share.   
   
 Indefinite-lived and finite-lived intangibles.  The Company performs assessments to determine if any intangible assets are impaired and whether the indefinite-life and finite-life classifications are still appropriate.   
   
 In evaluating whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of indefinite-lived intangibles is less than carrying value, BlackRock performed certain quantitative assessments and assessed various significant qualitative factors including AUM, revenue basis points, projected AUM growth rates, operating margins, tax rates and discount rates. In addition, the Company considered other factors including: (i) macroeconomic conditions such as a deterioration in general economic conditions, limitations on accessing capital, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, or other developments in equity and credit markets; (ii) industry and market considerations such as a deterioration in the environment in which an entity operates, an increased competitive environment, a decline in market-dependent multiples or metrics, a change in the market for an entity s services, or regulatory, legal or political developments; and (iii) entity-specific events, such as a change in management or key personnel, overall financial performance and litigation that could affect significant inputs used to determine the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. If an indefinite-lived intangible is determined to be more likely than not impaired, then the fair value of the asset is compared with its carrying value and any excess of the carrying value over the fair value would be recognized as an expense in the period in which the impairment occurs. 
 For finite-lived intangible assets, if potential impairment circumstances are considered to exist, the Company will perform a recoverability test, using an undiscounted cash flow analysis. Actual results could differ from these cash flow estimates, which could materially impact the impairment conclusion. If the carrying value of the   asset is determined not to be recoverable based on the undiscounted cash flow test, the difference between the book value of the asset and its current fair value would be recognized as an expense in the period in which the impairment occurs.  
 In addition, management judgment is required to estimate the period over which finite-lived intangible assets will contribute to the Company s cash flows and the pattern in which these assets will be consumed. A change in the remaining useful life of any of these assets, or the reclassification of an indefinite-lived intangible asset to a finite-lived intangible asset, could have a significant impact on the Company s amortization expense, which was $128 million, $157 million and $161 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  
   In 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company performed impairment tests, including evaluating various qualitative factors and performing certain quantitative assessments. The Company determined that no impairment charges were required, the classification of indefinite-lived versus  
 52 
 
  finite-lived intangibles was still appropriate and no changes to the expected lives of the finite-lived intangibles were requi  red. The Company continuously monitors various factors, including AUM, for potential indicators of impairment.   
 Income Taxes 
 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases using currently enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.  
 Significant management judgment is required in estimating the ranges of possible outcomes and determining the probability of favorable or unfavorable tax outcomes and potential interest and penalties related to such unfavorable outcomes. Actual future tax consequences relating to uncertain tax positions may be materially different than the Company s current estimates. At December 31, 2015, BlackRock had $466 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which $320 million, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate.  
 Management is required to estimate the timing of the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities, make assumptions about the future deductibility of deferred income tax assets and assess deferred income tax liabilities based on enacted tax rates for the appropriate tax jurisdictions to determine the amount of such deferred income tax assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2015, the Company had deferred tax assets of $20 million and net deferred tax liabilities of approximately $4,851 million on the consolidated statement of financial condition. Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities may occur in certain circumstances, including statutory income tax rate changes, statutory tax law changes, changes in the anticipated timing of recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in the structure or tax status of the Company.  
 The Company assesses whether a valuation allowance should be established against its deferred income tax assets based on consideration of all available evidence, both positive and negative, using a more likely than not standard. The assessment considers, among other matters, the nature, frequency and severity of recent losses, forecast of future profitability, the duration of statutory carry back and carry forward periods, the Company s experience with tax attributes expiring unused, and tax planning alternatives.  
 The Company records income taxes based upon its estimated income tax liability or benefit. The Company s actual tax liability or benefit may differ from the estimated income tax liability or benefit. The Company had current income taxes receivables of approximately $166 million and current income taxes payables of $79 million at December 31, 2015.  
 Revenue Recognition 
 Investment advisory and administration fees are recognized as the services are performed. Such fees are primarily based on pre-determined percentages of the market value of AUM or, in the case of certain real estate clients, net operating income generated by the underlying properties. Investment advisory and administration fees are affected by changes in AUM, including market appreciation or depreciation, foreign exchange translation and net inflows or outflows. Investment advisory and administration fees for investment funds are shown net of fees waived pursuant to contractual expense limitations of the funds or voluntary waivers.  
 The Company contracts with third parties and related parties for various fund distribution and shareholder servicing to be performed on behalf of certain funds the Company manages. Such arrangements generally are priced as a portion of the management fee paid by the fund. In certain cases, the fund takes on the primary responsibility for payment for services such that the Company bears no credit risk to the third-party. The Company accounts for such retrocession arrangements in accordance with ASC 605-45,  Revenue Recognition   Principal Agent Considerations  ( ASC 605-45 ), and records its management fees net of retrocessions. Retrocessions for 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $870 million, $891 million and $785 million, respectively. The Company has additional contracts for similar services with third parties, which due to the terms of the contracts, are recorded as distribution and servicing costs and thus not netted on the consolidated statements of income.  
 The Company earns revenue by lending securities on behalf of clients to highly rated banks and broker-dealers. Revenue is accounted for on an accrual basis. The securities loaned are secured by collateral, generally ranging from 102% to 112% of the value of the loaned securities. Generally, the revenue earned is shared between the Company and the funds or accounts managed by the Company from which the securities are borrowed. For 2015, 2014 and 2013, securities lending revenue earned by the Company totaled $513 million, $477 million and $447 million, respectively, and is recorded in investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue on the consolidated statements of income. Investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue are reported together as the fees for these services often are agreed upon with clients as a bundled fee.  
 The Company receives investment advisory performance fees or incentive allocations, from certain actively managed investment funds and certain SMAs. These performance fees are dependent upon exceeding specified relative or absolute investment return thresholds. Such fees are recorded upon completion of the measurement period, which varies by product or account, and could be monthly, quarterly, annually or longer.  
 In addition, the Company is allocated carried interest from certain alternative investment products upon exceeding performance thresholds. BlackRock may be required to reverse/return all, or part, of such carried interest allocations depending upon future performance of these funds. Therefore, BlackRock records carried interest subject to such clawback provisions in Total Investments or cash/cash of consolidated VIEs to the extent that it is distributed, on its consolidated statements of financial condition. Carried interest is recorded as performance fee revenue upon the earlier of the termination of the investment fund or when the likelihood of clawback is considered mathematically improbable.  
 The Company records a deferred carried interest liability to the extent it receives cash or capital allocations related to carried interest prior to meeting the revenue recognition criteria. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had $143 million and $105 million, respectively, of deferred carried interest recorded in other liabilities/other liabilities of consolidated VIEs on the consolidated statements of financial condition. A portion of the deferred carried interest liability will be paid to certain employees. The ultimate timing of the recognition of performance fee revenue, if any, for these products is unknown.  
 53 
 
    The following table presents changes in the deferred carried interest liability (in  cluding the portion related to consolidated VIEs) for 2015 and 2014:   

For 2015, 2014 and 2013, performance fee revenue totaled $621 million, $550 million and $561 million, respectively.  
 Fees earned for  BlackRock Solutions , which include advisory services, are recorded as services are performed or when completed and are determined using some, or all, of the following methods: (i) percentages of various attributes of advisory AUM or value of positions on the  Aladdin  platform, (ii) fixed fees and (iii) performance fees if contractual thresholds are met. Revenue earned on advisory assignments was comprised of one-time advisory and portfolio structuring fees and ongoing fees based on AUM of the respective portfolio assignment. For 2015, 2014 and 2013,  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenue totaled $646 million, $635 million and $577 million, respectively.  
 Adjustments to revenue arising from initial estimates recorded historically have been immaterial since the majority of BlackRock s investment advisory and administration revenue is calculated based on AUM and since the Company does not record performance revenue until performance thresholds have been exceeded and the likelihood of clawback is mathematically improbable.  
 Recent Developments 
 In November 2015, the Company announced that it had entered an agreement to assume investment management responsibilities of approximately $87 billion of cash assets under management from BofA  Global Capital Management, Bank of America s asset management business. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2016, subject to customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions.  This transaction is not expected to be material to the Company s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
 Accounting Developments  
 For accounting pronouncements that the Company adopted during 2015 and for recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted, see Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies , in the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.  

Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  
 AUM Market Price Risk.  BlackRock s investment advisory and administration fees are primarily comprised of fees based on a percentage of the value of AUM and, in some cases, performance fees expressed as a percentage of the returns realized on AUM. At December 31, 2015, the majority of the Company s investment advisory and administration fees were based on average or period end AUM of the applicable investment funds or separate accounts. Movements in equity market prices, interest rates/credit spreads, foreign exchange rates or all three could cause the value of AUM to decline, which would result in lower investment advisory and administration fees.   
 Corporate Investments Portfolio Risks.  As a leading investment management firm, BlackRock devotes significant resources across all of its operations to identifying, measuring, monitoring, managing and analyzing market and operating risks, including the management and oversight of its own investment portfolio. The Board of Directors of the Company has adopted guidelines for the review of investments to be made by the Company, requiring, among other things, that investments be reviewed by certain senior officers of the Company, and that certain investments may be referred to the Audit Committee or the Board of Directors, depending on the circumstances, for approval.   
 In the normal course of its business, BlackRock is exposed to equity market price risk, interest rate/credit spread risk and foreign exchange rate risk associated with its corporate investments.  
 BlackRock has investments primarily in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including real estate, private equity and hedge funds. Investments generally are made for co-investment purposes, to establish a performance track record, to hedge exposure to certain deferred compensation plans or for regulatory purposes. Currently, the Company has a seed capital hedging program in which it enters into swaps to hedge market and interest rate exposure to certain investments. At December 31, 2015, the Company had outstanding total return swaps and interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional value of approximately $360 million and $46 million, respectively.  
 At December 31, 2015, approximately $1.7 billion of BlackRock s Total Investments were maintained in consolidated sponsored investment funds accounted for as VREs and VIEs. Excluding the impact of the Federal Reserve Bank stock, carried interest, investments made to hedge exposure to certain deferred compensation plans and certain investments that are hedged via the seed capital hedging program, the Company s economic exposure to its investment portfolio is $1,548 million. See  Balance Sheet Overview - Investments and Investments of Consolidated VIEs  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information on the Company s Total Investments.  
 Equity Market Price Risk.  At December 31, 2015, the Company s net exposure to equity market price risk in its investment portfolio was approximately $578 million of the Company s total economic investment exposure. Investments subject to market price risk include private equity and real estate investments, hedge funds and funds of funds as well as mutual funds. The Company estimates that a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices would result in a decrease of approximately $57.8 million in the carrying value of such investments.   
   Interest-Rate/Credit Spread Risk.  At December 31, 2015, the Company was exposed to interest rate risk and credit spread risk as a result of approximately $970 million of Total Investments in debt securities and sponsored investment products that invest primarily in debt securities. Management considered a hypothetical 100 basis point fluctuation in interest rates or credit spreads and estimates that the impact of such a   
 54 
 
  fluctuation on these investments, in the aggregate, would result in a decrease, or increase, of approximately $  14.6   million in the carrying value of such investments.   
 Foreign Exchange Rate Risk.  As discussed above, the Company invests in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes. The carrying value of the total economic investment exposure denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the pound sterling and euro, was $343 million at December 31, 2015. A 10% adverse change in the applicable foreign exchange rates would result in approximately a $34.3 million decline in the carrying value of such investments.   
 Other Market Risks.  The Company executes forward foreign currency exchange contracts to mitigate the risk of certain foreign exchange risk movements. At December 31, 2015, the Company had outstanding forward foreign currency exchange contracts with an aggregate notional value of approximately $169 million.   

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data  
 The report of the independent registered public accounting firm and financial statements listed in the accompanying index are included in Item 15 of this report. See Index to the consolidated financial statements on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.  
     Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
 There have been no disagreements on accounting and financial disclosure matters. BlackRock has not changed accountants in the two most recent fiscal years.  
     Item 9a. Controls and Procedures  
 Disclosure Controls and Procedures.  Under the direction of BlackRock s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, BlackRock evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this annual report on Form 10-K. Based on this evaluation, BlackRock s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that BlackRock s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.   
 Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.   
 55 
 
       Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reportin  g   
 Management of BlackRock, Inc. (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and affected by the Company s board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and includes those policies and procedures that:  

pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;     

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with the authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and     

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.     

 Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
 Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015 based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2015, the Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective.  
 The Company s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  
 February 26, 2016  
 56 
 
    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of BlackRock, Inc.:  
 We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of BlackRock, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  
 A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  
 Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
 In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  
 We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated statement of financial condition as of December 31, 2015 and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended of the Company and our report dated February 26, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.  
 /s/   Deloitte   Touche LLP  
 New York, New York  
 February 26, 2016  
   
 57 
 
        Item 9b. Other   Information   
 The Company is furnishing no other information in this Form 10-K.  
 Part III  
     Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
 The information regarding directors and executive officers set forth under the captions  Item 1: Election of Directors   Information Concerning the Nominees and Directors  and  Item 1: Election of Directors   Other Executive Officers  of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  
 The information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act set forth under the caption  Item 1: Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  
 The information regarding BlackRock s Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers under the caption  Item 1: Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  
     Item 11. Executive Compensation  
 The information contained in the sections captioned  Item 1: Compensation of Executive Officers  and  Item 1: 2015 Director Compensation  of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  
     Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
 The information contained in the sections captioned  Item 1: Ownership of BlackRock Common and Preferred Stock  and  Equity Compensation Plan Information  of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  
     Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
 The information contained in the sections captioned  Item 1: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  and  Item 1: Director Independence  of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  
     Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
 The information regarding BlackRock s independent auditor fees and services in the section captioned  Item 4: Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  

Part IV  
     Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
 1. Financial Statements  
 The Company s consolidated financial statements are included beginning on page F-1.  
 2. Financial Statement Schedules  
 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges has been included as Exhibit 12.1. All other schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable, not required or the information required is included in the Company s consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.  
 3. Exhibit Index  
 As used in this exhibit list,  BlackRock  refers to BlackRock, Inc. (formerly named New BlackRock, Inc. and previously, New Boise, Inc.) (Commission File No. 001-33099) and  Old BlackRock  refers to BlackRock Holdco 2, Inc. (formerly named BlackRock, Inc.) (Commission File No. 001-15305), which is the predecessor of BlackRock. The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:  
 58 
 
    Please note that the agreements included as exhibits to this Form 10-K are included to provide information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosur  e information about BlackRock or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement that have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable   agreement and may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time.   

Exhibit No.  

Description  

3.1(1)  

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of BlackRock.  

3.2(2)  

Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of BlackRock, Inc.  

3.3(3)  

Amended and Restated Bylaws of BlackRock.  

3.4(1)  

Certificate of Designations of Series A Convertible Participating Preferred Stock of BlackRock.  

3.5(4)  

Certificate of Designations of Series B Convertible Participating Preferred Stock of BlackRock.  

3.6(4)  

Certificate of Designations of Series C Convertible Participating Preferred Stock of BlackRock.  

3.7(5)  

Certificate of Designations of Series D Convertible Participating Preferred Stock of BlackRock.  

4.1(6)  

Specimen of Common Stock Certificate.  

4.2(7)  

Indenture, dated September 17, 2007, between BlackRock and The Bank of New York, as trustee, relating to senior debt securities.  

4.3(8)  

Form of 6.25% Notes due 2017.  

4.4(9)  

Form of 5.00% Notes due 2019.  

4.5(10)  

Form of 4.25% Notes due 2021.  

4.6(11)  

Form of 3.375% Notes due 2022.  

4.7(12)  

Form of 3.500% Notes due 2024.  

4.8(13)  

Form of 1.250% Notes due 2025.  

4.9(13)  

Officers  Certificate, dated May 6, 2015, for the 1.250% Notes due 2025 issued pursuant to the Indenture.  

10.1  

BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+  

10.2(14)  

Amended and Restated BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Annual Incentive Performance Plan.+  

10.3(15)  

Amendment No. 1 to the BlackRock, Inc. Amended and Restated 1999 Annual Incentive Performance Plan.+  

10.4(16)  

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+  

10.5(16)  

Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (BPIP) under the BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+  

10.6(1)  

Form of Stock Option Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Stock Options under the BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+  

10.7(1)  

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Restricted Stock under the BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+  

10.8(1)  

Form of Directors  Restricted Stock Unit Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Restricted Stock Units under the BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+  

10.9  

BlackRock, Inc. Amended and Restated Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of November 16, 2015.+  

10.10(17)  

Share Surrender Agreement, dated October 10, 2002 (the  Share Surrender Agreement ), among Old BlackRock, PNC Asset Management, Inc. and The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.+  

10.11(18)  

First Amendment, dated as of February 15, 2006, to the Share Surrender Agreement.+  

10.12(19)  

Second Amendment, dated as of June 11, 2007, to the Share Surrender Agreement.+  

10.13(4)  

Third Amendment, dated as of February 27, 2009, to the Share Surrender Agreement.+  

10.14(20)  

Fourth Amendment, dated as of August 7, 2012, to the Share Surrender Agreement.+  

10.15(21)  

Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of March 10, 2011, by and among BlackRock, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender, issuing lender and L/C agent, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Japanese Yen lender, a group of lenders, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, Citibank, N.A., as syndication agent and Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as documentation agents.  

10.16(22)  

Amendment No. 1, dated as of March 30, 2012, by and among BlackRock, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender, issuing lender, L/C agent and a lender, and the banks and other financial institutions referred to therein.  

10.17(23)  

Amendment No. 2, dated as of March 28, 2013, by and among BlackRock, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender, issuing lender, L/C agent and a lender, and the banks and other financial institutions referred to therein.  

10.18(24)  

Amendment No. 3, dated as of March 28, 2014, by and among BlackRock, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender, issuing lender, L/C agent and a lender, and the banks and other financial institutions referred to therein.  

10.19(25)  

Amendment No. 4, dated as of April 2, 2015, by and among BlackRock, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender, issuing lender, L/C agent and a lender, and the banks and other financial institutions referred to therein.  

10.20(26)   

Second Amended and Restated Global Distribution Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, among BlackRock and Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc.  

10.21(3)  

Amended and Restated Implementation and Stockholder Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2009, between The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and BlackRock.  

10.22(27)  

Amendment No. 1, dated as of June 11, 2009, to the Amended and Restated Implementation and Stockholder Agreement between The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and BlackRock.  

10.23(28)  

Lease Agreement, dated as of February 17, 2010, among BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited and Mourant   Co Trustees Limited and Mourant Property Trustees Limited as Trustees of the Drapers Gardens Unit Trust for the lease of Drapers Gardens, 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London, EC2, United Kingdom.  

59 

10.2  4  (  29)   

Letter Agreement, dated February 12, 2013, between Gary S. Shedlin and BlackRock.+  

10.25(30)  

Amended and Restated Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between BlackRock and Barclays Capital Inc., dated as of December 23, 2014.  

10.26(30)  

Amended and Restated Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between BlackRock and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., dated as of December 23, 2014.  

10.27(30)  

Amended and Restated Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between BlackRock and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, dated as of January 6, 2015.  

10.28(30)  

Amended and Restated Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between BlackRock and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC dated as of January 6, 2015.  

12.1  

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  

21.1  

Subsidiaries of Registrant.  

23.1  

Deloitte   Touche LLP Consent.  

31.1  

Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.  

31.2  

Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.  

32.1  

Section 906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.  

101.INS  

XBRL Instance Document.  

101.SCH  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.  

101.CAL  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.  

101.DEF  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.  

101.LAB  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.  

101.PRE  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.  

(1)   
 
 Incorporated by reference to BlackRock s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 5, 2006.    

(5)   
 
 Incorporated by reference to BlackRock s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 3, 2009.    

+   
 
 Denotes compensatory plans or arrangements.    

Confidential treatment has been granted for certain portions of this exhibit, which portions have been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission.    

60 
 
        SIGNAT  URES   
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  
 BLACKROCK, INC.  

By:  
 
 /s/ LAURENCE D. FINK  

Laurence D. Fink  

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director  

February 26, 2016  
 Each of the officers and directors of BlackRock, Inc. whose signature appears below, in so signing, also makes, constitutes and appoints Laurence D. Fink, Gary S. Shedlin, Matthew J. Mallow, Christopher J. Meade, Daniel R. Waltcher and R. Andrew Dickson III, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact, with full power and substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to execute and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission any and all amendments to the Annual Report on Form 10-K, with exhibits thereto and other documents connected therewith and to perform any acts necessary to be done in order to file such documents, and hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorney-in-fact or his or her substitute or substitutes may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  

Signature  
 
 Title  
 
 Date  

/S/ LAURENCE D. FINK 

Laurence D. Fink  
 
 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)  
 
 February 26, 2016  

/S/ GARY SHEDLIN 

Gary S. Shedlin  
 
 Senior Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
 
 February 26, 2016  

/S/ JOSEPH FELICIANI, JR. 

Joseph Feliciani, Jr.  
 
 Managing Director and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)  
 
 February 26, 2016  

/S/ ABDLATIF Y. AL-HAMAD 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Abdlatif Y. Al-Hamad  

/S/ MATHIS CABIALLAVETTA 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Mathis Cabiallavetta  

/S/ PAMELA DALEY 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Pamela Daley  

/S/ WILLIAM S. DEMCHAK 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

William S. Demchak  

/S/ JESSICA EINHORN 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Jessica Einhorn  

/S/ FABRIZIO FREDA 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Fabrizio Freda  

/S/ MURRY S. GERBER 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Murry S. Gerber  

/S/ JAMES GROSFELD 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

James Grosfeld  

/S/ ROBERT S. KAPITO 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Robert S. Kapito  

/S/ DAVID H. KOMANSKY 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

David H. Komansky  

/S/ SIR DERYCK MAUGHAN 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Sir Deryck Maughan  

/S/ CHERYL D. MILLS 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Cheryl D. Mills  

/S/ GORDON M. NIXON     
 
 Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Gordon M. Nixon  

/S/ THOMAS H. O BRIEN 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Thomas H. O Brien  

/S/ IVAN G. SEIDENBERG 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Ivan G. Seidenberg  

/S/ MARCO ANTONIO SLIM DOMIT 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Marco Antonio Slim Domit  

/S/ JOHN S. VARLEY 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

John S. Varley  

/S/ SUSAN L. WAGNER 

Director  
 
 February 26, 2016  

Susan L. Wagner  

61 
 
    INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
 
 F-2  

Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition    
 
 F-3  

Consolidated Statements of Income    
 
 F-4  

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income    
 
 F-5  

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity    
 
 F-6  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
 
 F-8  

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements    
 
 F-9  

F-1 
 
        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGIST  ERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of BlackRock, Inc.:  
 We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition of BlackRock, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  
 We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  
 In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of BlackRock, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  
 We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 26, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  
 /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP  
 New York, New York  
 February 26, 2016  

F-2 
 
    BlackRock, Inc.   
     Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  

F-3 
 
    BlackRock, Inc.   
     Consolidated Statements of Income  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  

F-4 
 
    BlackRock, Inc.   
     Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

F-5 

BlackRock, Inc.   
     Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
 F-6 

BlackRock, Inc.   
 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

F-7 

BlackRock, Inc.   
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  
   
 F-8 

BlackRock, Inc.  
     Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  

1. Introduction and Basis of Presentation  
 Business . BlackRock, Inc. (together, with its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise indicates,  BlackRock  or the  Company ) is a leading publicly traded investment management firm providing a broad range of investment and risk management services to institutional and retail clients worldwide.   
 BlackRock s diverse platform of active (alpha) and index (beta) investment strategies across asset classes enables the Company to tailor investment outcomes and asset allocation solutions for clients. Product offerings include single- and multi-asset class portfolios investing in equities, fixed income, alternatives and money market instruments. Products are offered directly and through intermediaries in a variety of vehicles, including open-end and closed-end mutual funds,  iShares       exchange-traded funds ( ETFs ), separate accounts, collective investment funds and other pooled investment vehicles. BlackRock also offers the  BlackRock Solutions       investment and risk management technology platform,  Aladdin      , risk analytics and advisory services and solutions to a broad base of institutional investors.  
 At December 31, 2015, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ( PNC ) held 21.1% of the Company s voting common stock and 22.2% of the Company s capital stock, which includes outstanding common and nonvoting preferred stock.  
 Basis of Presentation.  These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ) and include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries. Noncontrolling interests on the consolidated statements of financial condition represents the portion of consolidated sponsored investment funds in which the Company does not have direct equity ownership. Accounts and transactions between consolidated entities have been eliminated.   
 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.  
 Certain items previously reported have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.  

2. Significant Accounting Policies  
 Accounting Pronouncements Adopted in 2015  
 Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis.     In February 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued ASU 2015-02,   Consolidation: Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis  , ( ASU 2015-02 ) that requires companies to reevaluate all legal entities under revised consolidation guidance. The revised consolidation rules provide guidance for evaluating: i) limited partnerships and similar entities for consolidation ii) how decision maker or service provider fees affect the consolidation analysis, iii) how interests held by related parties affect the consolidation analysis, and iv) the consolidation analysis required for certain investment funds. The consolidation guidance also provides a scope exception for reporting entities with interests in legal entities that are required to comply with or operate in accordance with requirements similar to those in Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 for registered money market funds.   
 The Company early adopted ASU 2015-02 using the modified retrospective method with an effective adoption date of January 1, 2015. The modified retrospective method did not require the restatement of prior year periods. In connection with the adoption of ASU 2015-02, the Company reevaluated all of its investment products for consolidation. As of January 1, 2015, the Company deconsolidated all of its previously consolidated collateralized loan obligations ( CLOs ) as its fee arrangements were no longer deemed to be variable interests and it held no other interests in these entities.  
 The adoption of the ASU also resulted in the consolidation of certain investment products that were not previously consolidated. Upon adoption, these products became consolidated variable interest entities ( VIEs ) as the Company is considered the party with both (i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE.  
 The impact to the consolidated statement of financial condition upon adoption was primarily the deconsolidation of approximately $3.6 billion of assets and $3.6 billion of liabilities related to certain CLOs that the Company manages with an adjustment to appropriated retained earnings of $19 million. In addition, certain investment products previously accounted for as voting rights entities ( VREs ) became VIEs under the new accounting guidance and were consolidated.  
 Debt Issuance Costs.     In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-03,   Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs   ( ASU 2015-03 ). ASU 2015-03 requires debt issuance costs to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying value of the associated debt liability, consistent with the presentation of a debt discount. The Company early adopted ASU 2015-03 during 2015 on a retrospective basis, which required the restatement of prior periods. The adoption of ASU 2015-03 was not material to the consolidated financial statements.   
 Disclosures for Investments in Certain Entities that Calculate NAV per Share.     In May 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-07,   Disclosures for Investments in Certain Entities That Calculate Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent)   ( ASU 2015-07 ). ASU 2015-07 removes the requirement to categorize within the fair value hierarchy all investments for which fair value is measured using the net asset value ( NAV ) per share practical expedient. The Company early adopted ASU 2015-07 during 2015 on a retrospective basis, which required the restatement of prior periods. As a result of the adoption, $647 million and $692 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, of NAV investments are no longer included in Level 2 and 3 within the fair value hierarchy.   
   Cash and Cash Equivalents . Cash and cash equivalents primarily consists of cash, money market funds and short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less in which the Company is exposed to market and credit risk. Cash and cash   
 F-9 

equivalent balances that are legally restricted from use by the Company are recorded in other assets on the consolidated statements of financial condition. Cash balances maintained by consolidated VREs are not considered   legally restricted and are included in cash and cash equivalents on the consolidated statements of financial condition. Cash balances maintained by consolidated VIEs are included in assets of consolidated variable interest entities on the consolidated stat  ements of financial condition.     
 Investments.  Investments in Debt and Marketable Equity Securities.   BlackRock classifies debt and marketable equity investments as trading, available-for-sale, or held-to-maturity based on the Company s intent to sell the security or, for a debt security, the Company s intent and ability to hold the debt security to maturity.   
 Trading securities are those investments that are purchased principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term. Trading securities are carried at fair value on the consolidated statements of financial condition with changes in fair value recorded in nonoperating income (expense) on the consolidated statements of income in the period of the change.  
 Held-to-maturity debt securities are purchased with the positive intent and ability to be held to maturity and are recorded at amortized cost on the consolidated statements of financial condition.  
 Available-for-sale securities are those securities that are not classified as trading or held-to-maturity. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value on the consolidated statements of financial condition with changes in fair value recorded in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component of stockholders  equity in the period of the change. Upon the disposition of an available-for-sale security, the Company reclassifies the gain or loss on the security from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to nonoperating income (expense) on the consolidated statements of income.  
 Equity Method . For equity investments where BlackRock does not control the investee, and where it is not the primary beneficiary ( PB ) of a VIE, but can exert significant influence over the financial and operating policies of the investee, the Company follows the equity method of accounting. BlackRock s share of the investee s underlying net income or loss is recorded as net gain (loss) on investments within nonoperating income (expense) and as other revenue for certain strategic investments since such companies are considered to be an extension of BlackRock s core business. BlackRock s share of net income of the investee is recorded based upon the most current information available at the time, which may precede the date of the consolidated statement of financial condition. Distributions received from the investment reduce the Company s carrying value of the investee and the cost basis if deemed to be a return of capital.   
 Cost Method . For nonmarketable equity investments where BlackRock neither controls nor has significant influence over the investee, the investments are accounted for using the cost method of accounting. Dividends received from the investment are recorded as dividend income within nonoperating income (expense).   
 Impairments of Investments . Management periodically assesses equity method, available-for-sale, held-to-maturity and cost investments for other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ). If an OTTI exists, an impairment charge is recorded in nonoperating income (expense) on the consolidated statements of the income.  
 For equity method, held-to-maturity and cost method investments, if circumstances indicate that an OTTI may exist, the investments are evaluated using market values, where available, or the expected future cash flows of the investment. If the Company determines an OTTI exists, an impairment charge is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over its estimated fair value. 
 For available-for-sale securities, when the fair value is lower than cost, the Company considers, among other factors, the length of time the security has been in a loss position, the extent to which the security s fair value is less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the security s issuer and the Company s ability and intent to hold the security for a length of time sufficient to allow for recovery of such unrealized losses. For equity securities, if the impairment is considered other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over its fair value. For debt securities, the Company considers whether: (1) it has the intent to sell the security; (2) it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell the security before recovery; or (3) it expects to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If the Company intends to sell the security or it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell the security, the entire difference between the amortized cost and fair value must be recognized in earnings.  If the Company does not intend to sell a security and it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell the security but the security has suffered an impairment related to credit, the credit loss will be bifurcated from the total decline in value and recorded in earnings with the remaining portion recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. 
 For the Company s investments in CLOs, the Company reviews cash flow estimates over the life of each CLO investment.  On a quarterly basis, if the present value of the estimated future cash flows is lower than the carrying value of the investment and there is an adverse change in estimated cash flows, an impairment is considered to be other-than-temporary. An impairment charge is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over its estimated fair value. 
 Consolidation.     The Company performs an analysis for investment products to determine if the product is a VIE or a VRE. Assessing whether an entity is a VIE or a VRE involves judgment and analysis. Factors considered in this assessment include the entity s legal organization, the entity s capital structure and equity ownership, and any related party or de facto agent implications of the Company s involvement with the entity. Investments that are determined to be VIEs are consolidated if the Company is the PB of the entity. VREs are typically consolidated if the Company holds the majority voting interest. Upon the occurrence of certain events (such as contributions and redemptions, either by the Company, or third parties, or amendments to the governing documents of the Company s investment products), management reviews and reconsiders its previous conclusion regarding the status of an entity as a VIE or a VRE. Additionally, management continually reconsiders whether the Company is deemed to be a VIE s PB that consolidates such entity.   
   Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities .    Certain investment products for which a controlling financial interest is achieved through arrangements that do not involve or are not directly linked to voting interests are deemed VIEs. BlackRock reviews factors, including whether or not i) the entity has equity that is sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated support from other parties and ii) the equity holders at risk have the obligation to absorb losses, the right to receive residual returns, and the right to direct the activities of   
 F-10 

the entity that most significantly impact the entity s economic performance, to determine if the investment product is a VIE. BlackRock re-evaluates such factors as facts and circumstances change.   
 Prior to the adoption of ASU 2015-02, the Company used two methods for determining whether it was the PB of a VIE depending on the nature and characteristics of the entity. For CLOs, the Company was deemed to be the PB if it had the power to direct activities of the entity that most significantly impacted the entity s economic performance and had the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that potentially could be significant to the VIE. For certain sponsored investment funds, the Company was deemed to be the PB if it absorbed the majority of the entity s expected losses, received a majority of the entity s expected residual returns, or both.  
 Following the adoption of ASU 2015-02, all VIEs are evaluated for consolidation under a single method. The PB of a VIE is defined as the variable interest holder that has a controlling financial interest in the VIE. A controlling financial interest is defined as (i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that potentially could be significant to the VIE. The consolidation analysis can generally be performed qualitatively, however, if it is not readily apparent that the Company is not the PB, a quantitative analysis may also be performed.  
 Consolidation of Voting Rights Entities .    BlackRock is required to consolidate an investee to the extent that BlackRock can exert control over the financial and operating policies of the investee, which generally exists if there is a greater than 50% voting equity interest.   
 Retention of Specialized Investment Company Accounting Principles.     Upon consolidation of sponsored investment funds, the Company retains the specialized investment company accounting principles of the underlying funds. All of the underlying investments held by such consolidated sponsored investment funds are carried at fair value with corresponding changes in the investments  fair values reflected in nonoperating income (expense) on the consolidated statements of income. When the Company no longer controls these funds due to reduced ownership percentage or other reasons, the funds are deconsolidated and accounted for as an equity method investment, available-for-sale security or trading investment if the Company still maintains an investment.   
 Money Market Fee Waivers .    The Company is currently voluntarily waiving a portion of its management fees on certain money market funds to ensure that they maintain a minimum level of daily net investment income (the  Yield Support waivers ). During 2015, these waivers resulted in a reduction of management fees of approximately $137 million. Approximately 50% of Yield Support waivers were offset by a reduction of BlackRock s distribution and servicing costs paid to a financial intermediary. BlackRock has provided Yield Support waivers in prior periods and may increase or decrease the level of fee waivers in future periods.   
 Separate Account Assets and Liabilities .      Separate account assets are maintained by BlackRock Life Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, which is a registered life insurance company in the United Kingdom, and represent segregated assets held for purposes of funding individual and group pension contracts. The life insurance company does not underwrite any insurance contracts that involve any insurance risk transfer from the insured to the life insurance company. The separate account assets primarily include equity securities, debt securities, money market funds and derivatives. The separate account assets are not subject to general claims of the creditors of BlackRock. These separate account assets and the related equal and offsetting liabilities are recorded as separate account assets and separate account liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial condition.   
 The net investment income attributable to separate account assets supporting individual and group pension contracts accrues directly to the contract owner and is not reported on the consolidated statements of income. While BlackRock has no economic interest in these separate account assets and liabilities, BlackRock earns policy administration and management fees associated with these products, which are included in investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue on the consolidated statements of income.  
 Separate Account Collateral Assets Held and Liabilities Under Securities Lending Agreements.     The Company facilitates securities lending arrangements whereby securities held by separate accounts maintained by BlackRock Life Limited are lent to third parties under global master securities lending agreements. In exchange, the Company receives legal title to the collateral with minimum values generally ranging from approximately 102% to 112% of the value of the securities lent in order to reduce counterparty risk. The required collateral value is calculated on a daily basis. The global master securities lending agreements provide the Company the right to request additional collateral or, in the event of borrower default, the right to liquidate collateral. The securities lending transactions entered into by the Company are accompanied by an agreement that entitles the Company to request the borrower to return the securities at any time; therefore, these transactions are not reported as sales  
 The Company records on the consolidated statements of financial condition the cash and noncash collateral received under these BlackRock Life Limited securities lending arrangements as its own asset in addition to an equal and offsetting collateral liability for the obligation to return the collateral. During 2015 and 2014, the Company had not resold or repledged any of the collateral received under these arrangements. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the fair value of loaned securities held by separate accounts was approximately $28.8 billion and $30.6 billion, respectively, and the fair value of the collateral held under these securities lending agreements was approximately $31.3 billion and $33.7 billion, respectively.  
 Property and Equipment . Property and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is generally determined by cost less any estimated residual value using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the various classes of property and equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful life or the remaining lease term.   
 BlackRock develops a variety of risk management, investment analytic and investment system services for internal use, utilizing proprietary software that is hosted and maintained by BlackRock. The Company capitalizes certain costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are included within property and equipment on the consolidated statements of financial condition and are amortized, beginning when the software project is ready for its intended use, over the estimated useful life of the software of approximately three years.  
   Goodwill and Intangible Assets . Goodwill represents the cost of a business acquisition in excess of the fair value of the net assets acquired. The Company has determined that it has one reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing purposes, the consolidated BlackRock single   
 F-11 

operating segment, which is consistent with internal management reporting and management's oversight of operations.   In   its assessment of goodwill for impairment, the Company considers such factors as the book value and market capitalization of the Company.     
 On a quarterly basis, the Company considers if triggering events have occurred that may indicate a potential goodwill impairment. If a triggering event has occurred, the Company performs assessments, which may include reviews of significant valuation assumptions, to determine if goodwill may be impaired. The Company performs an impairment assessment of its goodwill at least annually as of July 31  st  .  
 Intangible assets are comprised of indefinite-lived intangible assets and finite-lived intangible assets acquired in a business acquisition. The value of contracts to manage assets in proprietary open-end funds and collective trust funds and certain other commingled products without a specified termination date is generally classified as indefinite-lived intangible assets. The assignment of indefinite lives to such contracts primarily is based upon the following: (i) the assumption that there is no foreseeable limit on the contract period to manage these products; (ii) the Company expects to, and has the ability to, continue to operate these products indefinitely; (iii) the products have multiple investors and are not reliant on a single investor or small group of investors for their continued operation; (iv) current competitive factors and economic conditions do not indicate a finite life; and (v) there is a high likelihood of continued renewal based on historical experience. In addition, trade names/trademarks are considered indefinite-lived intangible assets when they are expected to generate cash flows indefinitely.  
 Indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized. Finite-lived management contracts, which relate to acquired separate accounts and funds with a specified termination date, are amortized over their remaining useful lives.  
 The Company performs assessments to determine if any intangible assets are potentially impaired and whether the indefinite-lived and finite-lived classifications are still appropriate. The carrying value of finite-lived management contracts and their remaining useful lives are reviewed at least annually to determine if circumstances exist which may indicate a potential impairment or revisions to the amortization period. The Company performs impairment assessments of all of its intangible assets at least annually, as of July 31  st  .  
 In evaluating whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of indefinite-lived intangibles is less than its carrying value, BlackRock assesses various significant qualitative factors, including assets under management ( AUM ), revenue basis points, projected AUM growth rates, operating margins, tax rates and discount rates. In addition, the Company considers other factors, including (i) macroeconomic conditions such as a deterioration in general economic conditions, limitations on accessing capital, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, or other developments in equity and credit markets; (ii) industry and market considerations such as a deterioration in the environment in which the entity operates, an increased competitive environment, a decline in market-dependent multiples or metrics, a change in the market for an entity s services, or regulatory, legal or political developments; and (iii) entity-specific events, such as a change in management or key personnel, overall financial performance and litigation that could affect significant inputs used to determine the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. If an indefinite-lived intangible is determined to be more likely than not impaired, then the fair value of the asset is compared with its carrying value and any excess of the carrying value over the fair value would be recognized as an expense in the period in which the impairment occurs. 
 For finite-lived intangible assets, if potential impairment circumstances are considered to exist, the Company will perform a recoverability test using an undiscounted cash flow analysis. Actual results could differ from these cash flow estimates, which could materially impact the impairment conclusion. If the carrying value of the asset is determined not to be recoverable based on the undiscounted cash flow test, the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its current fair value would be recognized as an expense in the period in which the impairment occurs.  
 Noncontrolling Interests.  The Company reports noncontrolling interests as equity, separate from the parent s equity, on the consolidated statements of financial condition. In addition, the Company s consolidated net income on the consolidated statements of income includes the income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest holders of the Company s consolidated investment products. Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests is not adjusted for income taxes for consolidated investment products that are treated as pass-through entities for tax purposes.   
 Classification and Measurement of Redeemable Securities.  The Company includes redeemable noncontrolling interests related to certain consolidated investment products in temporary equity on the consolidated statements of financial condition.   
 Treasury Stock . The Company records common stock purchased for treasury at cost. At the date of subsequent reissuance, the treasury stock account is reduced by the cost of such stock using the average cost method.   
 Revenue Recognition  
 Investment Advisory, Administration Fees and Securities Lending Revenue . Investment advisory and administration fees are recognized as the services are performed. Such fees are primarily based on pre-determined percentages of the market value of AUM or committed capital. Investment advisory and administration fees are affected by changes in AUM, including market appreciation or depreciation, foreign exchange translation and net inflows or outflows. Investment advisory and administration fees for investment funds are shown net of fees waived pursuant to contractual expense limitations of the funds or voluntary waivers.   
 The Company contracts with third parties and related parties for various mutual fund distribution and shareholder servicing to be performed on behalf of certain funds the Company manages. Such arrangements generally are priced as a portion of the management fee paid by the fund. In certain cases, the fund (primarily international funds) takes on the primary responsibility for payment for services such that the Company bears no credit risk to the third-party. The Company accounts for such retrocession arrangements in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) 605-45,  Revenue Recognition   Principal Agent Considerations,  and records its management fees net of retrocessions. Retrocessions for 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $870 million, $891 million and $785 million, respectively, and were reflected net in investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue on the consolidated statements of income.  
 The Company also earns revenue by lending securities as an agent on behalf of clients, primarily to brokerage institutions. Revenue is accounted for on an accrual basis. The revenue earned is shared between the Company and the funds or other third-party accounts managed by the Company from which the securities are borrowed.  
 F-12 

Investment Advisory Performance Fees / Carried Interest  . The Company receives investment advisory performance fees or incentive allocations from certain actively managed investment fund  s and certain separately managed accounts ( SMAs ). These performance fees are dependent upon exceeding specified relative or absolute investment return thresholds. Such fees are recorded upon completion of the measurement period, which varies by product o  r account, and could be monthly, quarterly, annually or longer.   
 In addition, the Company is allocated carried interest from certain alternative investment products upon exceeding performance thresholds. BlackRock may be required to reverse/return all, or part, of such carried interest allocations depending upon future performance of these funds. Therefore, BlackRock records carried interest subject to such clawback provisions in total investments or cash/cash of consolidated VIEs to the extent that it is distributed, on its consolidated statements of financial condition. Carried interest is recorded as performance fee revenue upon the earlier of the termination of the investment fund or when the likelihood of clawback is considered mathematically improbable.  
 The Company records a deferred carried interest liability to the extent it receives cash or capital allocations related to carried interest prior to meeting the revenue recognition criteria. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had $143 million and $105 million, respectively, of deferred carried interest recorded in other liabilities/other liabilities of consolidated VIEs on the consolidated statements of financial condition. A portion of the deferred carried interest liability will be paid to certain employees.  The ultimate timing of the recognition of performance fee revenue, if any, for these products is unknown.  
 BlackRock Solutions and Advisory . BlackRock provides a variety of risk management, investment analytic, enterprise investment system and financial markets advisory services to financial institutions, pension funds, asset managers, foundations, consultants, mutual fund sponsors, real estate investment trusts and government agencies. These services are provided under the brand name  BlackRock Solutions  and include a wide array of risk management services, valuation of illiquid securities, disposition and workout assignments (including long-term portfolio liquidation assignments), strategic planning and execution, and enterprise investment system outsourcing to clients. Fees earned for  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory services are recorded as services are performed and are determined using some, or all, of the following methods: (i) percentages of various attributes of advisory AUM or value of positions on the  Aladdin  platform, (ii) fixed fees and (iii) performance fees if contractual thresholds are met. The fees earned for  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory services are recorded in  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory on the consolidated statements of income.   
 Other Revenue . The Company earns fees for transition management services comprised of commissions from acting as an introducing broker-dealer in buying and selling securities on behalf of the Company s customers. Commissions related to transition management services are recorded on a trade-date basis as securities transactions occur and are reflected in other revenue on the consolidated statements of income.   
 The Company earns commissions revenue upon the sale of unit trusts and Class A mutual funds. Revenue is recorded at the time of the sale of the product.  
 Other revenue also includes equity method investment earnings related to certain strategic investments. 
 Stock-based Compensation . Entities are required to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. The compensation cost is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service (usually the vesting period) in exchange for the stock-based award.   
 The Company measures the grant-date fair value of restricted stock units ( RSUs ) using the Company s share price on the date of grant. For employee share options and instruments with market conditions, the Company uses pricing models. If an equity award is modified after the grant-date, incremental compensation cost is recognized for an amount equal to the excess of the fair value of the modified award over the fair value of the original award immediately before the modification. Awards under the Company s stock-based compensation plans vest over various periods. Compensation cost is recorded by the Company on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separate vesting portion of the award as if the award is, in-substance, multiple awards. Compensation cost is reduced by the number of awards expected to be forfeited prior to vesting. Forfeiture estimates generally are derived using historical forfeiture information, where available, and are reviewed for reasonableness at least quarterly.  
 The Company amortizes the grant-date fair value of stock-based compensation awards made to retirement-eligible employees over the requisite service period. Upon notification of retirement, the Company accelerates the unamortized portion of the award over the contractually required retirement notification period.  
 Distribution and Servicing Costs . Distribution and servicing costs include payments to third parties, primarily associated with distribution and servicing of client investments in certain BlackRock products. Distribution and servicing costs are expensed when incurred.   
 Amortization of Deferred Sales Commissions . The Company holds the rights to receive certain cash flows from sponsored mutual funds sold without a front-end sales charge ( back-end load shares ). The carrying value of these deferred mutual fund commissions is recorded within other assets on the consolidated statements of financial condition and is being amortized over periods between one and six years. The Company receives distribution fees from these funds and contingent deferred sales commissions ( CDSCs ) upon shareholder redemption of certain back-end load shares that are recorded within distribution fees on the consolidated statements of income. Upon receipt of CDSCs, the Company records revenue and the remaining unamortized deferred sales commission is expensed.   
 Direct Fund Expenses . Direct fund expenses, which are expensed as incurred, primarily consist of third-party nonadvisory expenses incurred by BlackRock related to certain funds for the use of certain index trademarks, reference data for certain indices, custodial services, fund administration, fund accounting, transfer agent services, shareholder reporting services, audit and tax services as well as other fund-related expenses directly attributable to the nonadvisory operations of the fund.   
 Leases . The Company accounts for its office facilities leases as operating leases, which may include escalation clauses. The Company expenses the lease payments associated with operating leases evenly during the lease term (including rent-free periods) commencing when the Company obtains the right to control the use of the leased property.   
   Foreign Exchange . Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are subsequently remeasured into the functional currencies of the Company's   
 F-13 

subsidiaries at the rates prevailing at each balance sheet date. Gains and losses arising on remeasurement are included in general and administration expense on the consolidated statements of income  .    Revenue and expenses are translated at average exchange rates during the period. Gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements into U.S. dollars   are included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate componen  t of stockholders  equity, on the consolidated statements of financial condition.  
 Income Taxes . Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases using currently enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred income tax assets and liabilities is recognized on the consolidated statements of income in the period that includes the enactment date.   
 Management periodically assesses the recoverability of its deferred income tax assets based upon expected future earnings, taxable income in prior carryback years, future deductibility of the asset, changes in applicable tax laws and other factors. If management determines that it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will be fully recoverable in the future, a valuation allowance will be established for the difference between the asset balance and the amount expected to be recoverable in the future. This allowance will result in additional income tax expense. Further, the Company records its income taxes receivable and payable based upon its estimated income tax position.  
 Excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation are recognized as additional paid-in capital and are reflected as financing cash flows on the consolidated statements of cash flows. If the Company does not have additional paid-in capital credits (cumulative tax benefits recorded to additional paid-in capital), the Company will record an expense for any deficit, or shortfall, between the recorded tax benefit and tax return benefit. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, BlackRock had excess additional paid-in capital credits to absorb potential future deficits between recorded tax benefits and tax return benefits.  
 Earnings per Share ( EPS ) . Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net income applicable to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS includes the determinants of basic EPS and common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed using the treasury stock method.   
 Due to the similarities in terms between BlackRock s nonvoting participating preferred stock and the Company s common stock, the Company considers its nonvoting participating preferred stock to be a common stock equivalent for purposes of EPS calculations. As such, the Company has included the outstanding nonvoting participating preferred stock in the calculation of average basic and diluted shares outstanding.  
 Business Segments . The Company s management directs BlackRock s operations as one business, the asset management business.  The Company utilizes a consolidated approach to assess performance and allocate resources. As such, the Company operates in one business segment as defined in ASC 280-10,   Segment Reporting   ( ASC 280-10 ).   
 Fair Value Measurements.  
 Hierarchy of Fair Value Inputs .    The Company uses a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured and reported at fair value are classified and disclosed in one of the following categories:   
  Level 1 Inputs:   
 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the reporting date.  

Level 1 assets may include listed mutual funds, ETFs, listed equities and certain exchange-traded derivatives.     

  Level 2 Inputs:   
 Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities that are not active; quotes from pricing services or brokers for which the Company can determine that orderly transactions took place at the quoted price or that the inputs used to arrive at the price are observable; and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable, such as models or other valuation methodologies.  

Level 2 assets may include debt securities, bank loans, short-term floating-rate notes, asset-backed securities, securities held within consolidated hedge funds, restricted public securities valued at a discount, as well as over-the-counter derivatives, including interest and inflation rate swaps and foreign currency exchange contracts that have inputs to the valuations that generally can be corroborated by observable market data.     

  Level 3 Inputs:   
 Unobservable inputs for the valuation of the asset or liability, which may include nonbinding broker quotes. Level 3 assets include investments for which there is little, if any, market activity. These inputs require significant management judgment or estimation.  

Level 3 assets may include direct private equity investments held within consolidated funds, investments in CLOs, bank loans and bonds.     

Level 3 liabilities include contingent liabilities related to acquisitions valued based upon discounted cash flow analysis using unobservable market data. Level 3 liabilities at December 31, 2014 also included borrowings of consolidated CLOs valued based upon nonbinding single-broker quotes.     

 Significance of Inputs.     The Company s assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the financial instrument.   
   Valuation Techniques.     The fair values of certain Level 3 assets and liabilities were determined using various methodologies as appropriate, including third-party pricing vendors, broker quotes and market and income approaches. Such quotes and modeled prices are evaluated for   
 F-14 

reasonableness through various procedures, including due diligence reviews of third-party pricing vendors, variance analyses, consideration of the current market environment and other analytical procedures.   
 A significant number of inputs used to value equity, debt securities and bank loans is sourced from third-party pricing vendors. Generally, prices obtained from pricing vendors are categorized as Level 1 inputs for identical securities traded in active markets and as Level 2 for other similar securities if the vendor uses observable inputs in determining the price. Annually, BlackRock s internal valuation committee or other designated groups review both the valuation methodologies, including the general assumptions and methods used to value various asset classes, and operational processes with these vendors. On a quarterly basis, meetings are held with key vendors to identify any significant changes to the vendors  processes.  
 In addition, quotes obtained from brokers generally are nonbinding and categorized as Level 3 inputs. However, if the Company is able to determine that market participants have transacted for the asset in an orderly manner near the quoted price or if the Company can determine that the inputs used by the broker are observable, the quote is classified as a Level 2 input.  
 Investments Measured at Net Asset Values.     As a practical expedient, the Company uses NAV as the fair value for certain investments. The inputs to value these investments may include BlackRock capital accounts for its partnership interests in various alternative investments, including distressed credit hedge funds, opportunistic funds, real estate and private equity funds, which may be adjusted by using the returns of certain market indices. The various partnerships generally are investment companies, which record their underlying investments at fair value based on fair value policies established by management of the underlying fund. Fair value policies at the underlying fund generally require the fund to utilize pricing/valuation information from third-party sources, including independent appraisals. However, in some instances, current valuation information for illiquid securities or securities in markets that are not active may not be available from any third-party source or fund management may conclude that the valuations that are available from third-party sources are not reliable. In these instances, fund management may perform model-based analytical valuations that may be used as an input to value these investments.   
 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities .    The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The Company uses derivative financial instruments primarily for purposes of hedging exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of certain assets and liabilities, and market exposures for certain seed investments. The Company may also use derivatives within its separate account assets, which are segregated for purposes of funding individual and group pension contracts. In addition, certain consolidated sponsored investment funds may also invest in derivatives as a part of their investment strategy.   
 Changes in the fair value of the Company s derivative financial instruments are recognized in earnings and, where applicable, are offset by the corresponding gain or loss on the related foreign-denominated assets or liabilities or hedged investments, on the consolidated statements of income.  
 The Company may also use financial instruments designated as net investment hedges for accounting purposes to hedge net investments in international subsidiaries whose functional currency is different from the reporting currency of the parent company. The gain or loss from revaluing accounting hedges of net investments in foreign operations at the spot rate is deferred and reported within accumulated other comprehensive income on the consolidated statements of financial condition. The Company reassesses the effectiveness of its net investment hedge on a quarterly basis.  
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted  
 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.     In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers   ( ASU 2014-09 ). ASU 2014-09 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2014-09, which is effective for the Company on January 1, 2018.   
 Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments .     In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-16,   Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments   ( ASU 2015-16 ).  Under ASU 2015-16, an acquirer must recognize, upon determination, adjustments to the original amounts recorded for a business acquisition that are identified during the one-year period following the acquisition date. Previously prior period information was required to be revised.  The Company adopted ASU 2015-16 prospectively on January 1, 2016 and will apply the ASU to any adjustments related to business acquisitions.   
 Recognition and Measurement of Financial Instruments .     In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01,   Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities   ( ASU 2016-01 ).  ASU 2016-01 amends guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments, including significant revisions in accounting related to the classification and measurement of investments in equity securities and presentation of certain fair value changes for financial liabilities when the fair value option is elected.  ASU 2016-01 also amends certain disclosure requirements associated with the fair value of financial instruments.  The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2016-01, which is effective for the Company on January 1, 2018.   
 Leases . In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02,   Leases   ( ASU 2016-02 ). ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities arising from most operating leases on the statement of financial position. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2016-02, which is effective for the Company on January 1, 2019.  

F-15 

3. Investments   
 A summary of the carrying value of total investments is as follows:  

(1)   
 
 Amounts primarily include Federal Reserve Bank ( FRB ) Stock.     

 Available-for-Sale Investments  
 A summary of the cost and carrying value of investments classified as available-for-sale investments is as follows:  

At December 31, 2015 available-for-sale investments primarily included investments in CLOs.  At December 31, 2014, available-for-sale investments primarily included seed investment in BlackRock sponsored mutual funds.  
 A summary of sale activity of available-for-sale securities during 2015, 2014 and 2013 is shown below.  

Held-to-Maturity Investments  
 The carrying value of held-to-maturity investments was $108 million and $79 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Held-to-maturity investments included foreign government debt held primarily for regulatory purposes. The amortized cost (carrying value) of these investments approximated fair value. At December 31, 2015, $96 million of these investments mature in one year or less and $12 million mature after five years through ten years.  
 Trading Investments  
 A summary of the cost and carrying value of trading investments is as follows:  

At December 31, 2015, trading investments included $437 million of debt securities and $263 million of equity securities held by consolidated sponsored investment funds accounted for as VREs, $65 million of certain deferred compensation plan mutual fund investments and $20 million of other equity and debt securities. 
 F-16 

At December 31, 2014, trading investments included $223 million of debt securities and $220 million of equity securities held by consolidated sponso  red investment funds accounted for as VREs, $64 million of certain deferred compensation plan mutual fund investments and $29 million of other equity and debt securities.     
 Other Investments  
 A summary of the cost and carrying value of other investments is as follows:  

(1)   
 
 Carried interest related to VREs.    

 At December 31, 2014, consolidated sponsored investment funds accounted for as VREs include third-party private equity funds, direct investments in private companies and third-party hedge funds held by BlackRock sponsored investment funds.  
 Equity method investments primarily include BlackRock s direct investments in certain BlackRock sponsored investment funds. See Note 11,  Other Assets , for more information on the Company s investment in PennyMac Financial Services, Inc.  ( PennyMac ), which is included in other assets on the consolidated statements of financial condition. 
 Cost method investments include nonmarketable securities, primarily FRB stock, which is held for regulatory purposes and is restricted from sale. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, there were no indicators of impairment on these investments.  
 Carried interest represents allocations to BlackRock s general partner capital accounts from certain funds. These balances are subject to change upon cash distributions, additional allocations or reallocations back to limited partners within the respective funds.  

4. Consolidated Voting Rights Entities 
 The Company consolidates certain sponsored investment funds accounted for as VREs because it is deemed to control such funds. The investments owned by these consolidated VREs are classified as trading or other investments. The following table presents the balances related to these consolidated VREs that were recorded on the consolidated statements of financial condition, including BlackRock s net interest in these funds:    

BlackRock s total exposure to consolidated VREs represents the value of its economic ownership interest in these sponsored investment funds. Valuation changes associated with investments held at fair value by these consolidated VREs are reflected in nonoperating income (expense) and partially offset in net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests for the portion not attributable to BlackRock.  
 In addition, at December 31, 2015 and 2014, certain consolidated sponsored investment funds, which were accounted for as VIEs, were excluded from the balances in the table above as the balances for these investment products are reported separately on the consolidated statements of financial condition. See Note 5,  Variable Interest Entities , for further discussion on these consolidated investment products. See Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies , for the Company s consolidation policy and for further information on the adoption of ASU 2015-02.  
 The Company cannot readily access cash and cash equivalents held by consolidated VREs to use in its operating activities.  

5. Variable Interest Entities  
 In the normal course of business, the Company is the manager of various types of sponsored investment vehicles, which may be considered VIEs. The Company may from time to time own equity or debt securities or enter into derivatives with the vehicles, each of which are considered variable interests. The Company s involvement in financing the operations of the VIEs is generally limited to its investments in the entity. The Company consolidates entities when it is determined to be the PB. See Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies , for further information on the Company s accounting policy on consolidation.  
 F-17 

As a result of the adoption of ASU 2015-02, the Company deconsolidated all previously consolidated CLOs effective January 1, 2015 as its fees are no lon  ger deemed variable interests. The Company also consolidated certain investment products that were not previously consolidated. See Note 2,   Significant Accounting Policies   Accounting Pronouncements Adopted in 2015  , for further information on ASU 2015-02.     
 Consolidated VIEs.     The Company s consolidated VIEs as of December 31, 2015 include certain sponsored investment funds in which BlackRock has an investment and as the investment manager, is deemed to have both the power to direct the most significant activities of the funds and the right to receive benefits (or the obligation to absorb losses) that could potentially be significant to these sponsored investment funds. The assets of these VIEs are not available to creditors of the Company. In addition, the investors in these VIEs have no recourse to the credit of the Company.   
 The Company s consolidated VIEs under previous accounting guidance as of December 31, 2014 primarily included CLOs in which BlackRock did not have an investment; however, as the collateral manager, BlackRock was deemed to have both the power to direct the most significant activities of the CLOs and the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the CLOs.  
 Consolidated VIE assets and liabilities are presented after intercompany eliminations at December 31, 2015 and 2014 in the following table:  

The Company recorded a $58 million nonoperating net gain for 2015 related to consolidated VIEs. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests related to consolidated VIEs for 2015 was $6 million. 
 The Company recorded $41 million of nonoperating expense and an equal and offsetting loss attributable to noncontrolling interests related to consolidated VIEs for 2014.  No gain or loss was recorded for 2013.  
 Non-Consolidated VIEs.  At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company s carrying value of assets and liabilities included on the consolidated statements of financial condition pertaining to nonconsolidated VIEs and its maximum risk of loss related to VIEs for which it held a variable interest, but for which it was not the PB, was as follows:   

(1)   
 
 At December 31, 2015 and 2014, BlackRock s maximum risk of loss associated with these VIEs primarily related to collecting advisory fee receivables and BlackRock s investments.     

 The net assets of sponsored investment products that are nonconsolidated VIEs approximated $3 billion at December 31, 2015. Net assets of other sponsored investment funds approximated $1.7 trillion to $1.8 trillion at December 31, 2014 and included approximately $1.4 trillion of collective trusts at December 31, 2014. Upon the adoption of ASU 2015-02, BlackRock no longer has a variable interest in collective trusts as BlackRock does not have any economic interest and earns at-market fees from these products.  

F-18 

6. Fair Value   Disclosures   
 Fair Value Hierarchy  
 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and other assets not held at fair value  

(1)     
 
 Amounts are comprised of certain investments measured at fair value using NAV (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient. These investments have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy (see Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies , for more information on the adoption of ASU 2015-07).     

(2)    
 
 Amounts are comprised of investments held at cost or amortized cost, carried interest and certain equity method investments, which include sponsored investment funds and other assets, which are not accounted for under a fair value measure. In accordance with GAAP, certain equity method investees do not account for both their financial assets and liabilities under fair value measures; therefore, the Company s investment in such equity method investees may not represent fair value.     

(3)    
 
 Level 3 amounts include direct investments in private equity companies held by private equity funds.     

(4)    
 
 Amounts include a derivative (see Note 7,  Derivatives and Hedging , for more information) and recorded contingent liabilities related to certain acquisitions (see Note 13,  Commitments and Contingencies , for more information).     

F-19 

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and other assets not held at fair value   

(1)     
 
 Amounts are comprised of certain investments measured at fair value using NAV (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient. These investments have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy (see Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies , for more information on the adoption of ASU 2015-07).     

(2)    
 
 Amounts are comprised of investments held at cost or amortized cost, carried interest and certain equity method investments, which include sponsored investment funds and other assets, which are not accounted for under a fair value measure. In accordance with GAAP, certain equity method investees do not account for both their financial assets and liabilities under fair value measures; therefore, the Company s investment in such equity method investees may not represent fair value.     

(3)    
 
 Level 3 amounts include direct investments in private equity companies held by private equity funds.     

(4)    
 
 Amounts include a derivative (see Note 7,  Derivatives and Hedging , for more information) and contingent liabilities related to certain acquisitions (see Note 13,  Commitments and Contingencies , for more information).     

Level 3 Assets.  Level 3 investments of consolidated VIEs of $196 million at December 31, 2015 and Level 3 investments of $80 million at December 31, 2014 related to direct investments in private equity companies held by private equity funds.  Direct investments in private equity companies may be valued using the market approach or the income approach, or a combination thereof, and were valued based on an assessment of each underlying investment, incorporating evaluation of additional significant third-party financing, changes in valuations of comparable peer companies, the business environment of the companies, market indices, assumptions relating to appropriate risk adjustments for nonperformance and legal restrictions on disposition, among other factors. The fair value derived from the methods used is evaluated and weighted, as appropriate, considering the reasonableness of the range of values indicated. Under the market approach, fair value may be determined by reference to multiples of market-comparable companies or transactions, including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) multiples. Under the income approach, fair value may be determined by discounting the expected cash flows to a single present value amount using current expectations about those future amounts. Unobservable inputs used in a discounted cash flow model may include projections of operating performance generally covering a five-year period and a terminal value of the private equity direct investment. For investments utilizing the discounted cash flow valuation technique, a significant increase (decrease) in the discount rate, risk premium or discount for lack of marketability in isolation could result in a significantly lower (higher) fair value measurement. For investments utilizing the market comparable companies valuation technique, a significant increase (decrease) in the EBITDA multiple in isolation could result in a significantly higher (lower) fair value measurement.   
 F-20 

Level 3 assets may include bank loans, investments in CLOs  ,   and bonds valued based on single-broker nonbinding quotes and direct private equity investments valued using the market approach or the income approach as described above.   
 Level 3 Liabilities.  Level 3 borrowings of consolidated VIEs at December 31, 2014 include CLO borrowings valued based upon single-broker nonbinding quotes.   
 Level 3 other liabilities primarily include recorded contingent liabilities related to certain acquisitions, which were valued based upon discounted cash flow analyses using unobservable market data inputs.  
 Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for 2015  (  1  )      

(1)     
 
 Upon adoption of ASU 2015-07, investments measured at NAV are no longer required to be categorized within the fair value hierarchy. See Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies , for further information.     

(3)    
 
 Other liabilities amount includes contingent liabilities and payments of contingent liabilities related to certain acquisitions.     

(4)     
 
 Earnings attributable to the change in unrealized gains (losses) relating to assets still held at the reporting date.     

(5)     
 
 Amounts include investments in CLOs.     

F-21 

Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis   for   2014   (1)      

N/A   not applicable  

(1)    
 
 Upon adoption of ASU 2015-07, investments measured at NAV are no longer required to be categorized within the fair value hierarchy. See Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies , for further information.     

(2)     
 
 Amount primarily includes net proceeds from borrowings of consolidated VIEs.     

(3)    
 
 Includes investments previously held at cost.     

(4)    
 
 Earnings attributable to the change in unrealized gains (losses) relating to assets still held at the reporting date.     

(5)    
 
 The net gain (loss) on consolidated VIEs is solely attributable to noncontrolling interests on the consolidated statements of income.     

Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) for Level 3 Assets and Liabilities.  Realized and unrealized gains (losses) recorded for Level 3 assets and liabilities are reported in nonoperating income (expense) on the consolidated statements of income. A portion of net income (loss) for consolidated sponsored investment funds are allocated to noncontrolling interests to reflect net income (loss) not attributable to the Company.   
 Transfers in and/or out of Levels.  Transfers in and/or out of levels are reflected when significant inputs, including market inputs or performance attributes, used for the fair value measurement become observable/unobservable, or when the carrying value of certain equity method investments no longer represents fair value as determined under valuation methodologies.   
  Assets of Consolidated VIEs .  During 2014, there were $280 million of transfers out of Level 3 to Level 2 related to bank loans. In addition, in 2014, there were $302 million of transfers into Level 3 from Level 2 related to bank loans. These transfers in and out of levels were primarily due to availability/unavailability of observable market inputs, including inputs from pricing vendors and brokers.   
 Significant Issuances and Other Settlements.  During 2015, other settlements primarily included the impact of deconsolidating previously consolidated CLOs effective January 1, 2015 as a result of adopting ASU 2015-02. See Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies , for further information on ASU 2015-02.     
 In 2014, issuances and other settlements included $1,582 million of borrowings due to the consolidation of CLOs and $485 million of repayments of borrowings of consolidated CLOs.  
 Disclosures of Fair Value for Financial Instruments Not Held at Fair Value . At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the fair value of the Company s financial instruments not held at fair value are categorized in the table below.   

F-22 

(1)   
 
 Cash and cash equivalents are carried at either cost or amortized cost, which approximates fair value due to their short-term maturities.     

(2)   
 
 At December 31, 2015 and 2014, approximately $132 million and $100 million, respectively, of money market funds were recorded within cash and cash equivalents on the consolidated statements of financial condition. In addition, at December 31, 2015, approximately $68 million of money market funds was recorded within cash and cash equivalents of consolidated VIEs.  Money market funds are valued based on quoted market prices, or $1.00 per share, which generally is the NAV of the fund.        

(3)   
 
 The carrying amounts of accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their short-term nature.     

(4)   
 
 Long-term borrowings are recorded at amortized cost, net of debt issuance costs. The fair value of the long-term borrowings, including the current portion of long-term borrowings, is estimated using market prices at the end of December 2015 and 2014, respectively. See Note 12,  Borrowings , for the fair value of each of the Company s long-term borrowings.     

 Investments in Certain Entities that Calculate Net Asset Value Per Share  
 As a practical expedient to value certain investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value and have attributes of an investment company, the Company uses NAV as the fair value. The following tables list information regarding all investments that use a fair value measurement to account for both their financial assets and financial liabilities in their calculation of a NAV per share (or equivalent).  
 December 31, 2015  

December 31, 2014 

N/R   not redeemable  

(1)   
 
 Comprised of equity method investments, which include investment companies, which account for their financial assets and most financial liabilities under fair value measures; therefore, the Company s investment in such equity method investees approximates fair value.     

(a)   
 
 This category includes the underlying third-party private equity funds within consolidated BlackRock sponsored private equity funds of funds. The fair values of the investments in the third-party funds have been estimated using capital accounts representing the Company s ownership interest in each fund in the portfolio as well as other performance inputs. These investments are not subject to redemption; however, for certain funds, the Company may sell or transfer its interest, which may need approval by the general partner of the underlying funds. Due to the nature of the investments in this category, the Company reduces its investment by distributions that are received through the realization of the underlying assets of the funds. It is estimated that the underlying assets of these funds will be liquidated over a weighted-average period of approximately five years and seven years at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The total remaining unfunded commitments to other third-party funds were $19 million and $22 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Company had contractual obligations to the consolidated funds of $31 million at both December 31, 2015 and 2014.     

 F-23 

(b)   
 
        This category includes hedge funds and funds of hedge funds that invest p  rimarily in equities, fixed income securities, distressed credit, opportunistic and mortgage instruments and other third-party hedge funds. The fair values of the investments have been estimated using the NAV of the Company s ownership interest in partners    capital. It was estimated that the investments in the funds that are not subject to redemption will be liquidated over a weighted-average period of approximately one year and two years at December 31, 2015 and 2014,   respectively  .         

(c)   
 
 This category includes several private equity funds that initially invest in nonmarketable securities of private companies, which ultimately may become public in the future. The fair values of these investments have been estimated using capital accounts representing the Company s ownership interest in the funds as well as other performance inputs. The Company s investment in each fund is not subject to redemption and is normally returned through distributions as a result of the liquidation of the underlying assets of the private equity funds. It was estimated that the investments in these funds will be liquidated over a weighted-average period of approximately four years at both December 31, 2015 and 2014.     

(d)   
 
 This category includes several real estate funds that invest directly in real estate and real estate related assets. The fair values of the investments have been estimated using capital accounts representing the Company s ownership interest in the funds. A majority of the Company s investments are not subject to redemption or are not currently redeemable and are normally returned through distributions as a result of the liquidation of the underlying assets of the real estate funds. It is estimated that the investments in these funds not subject to redemptions will be liquidated over a weighted-average period of approximately six years and seven years at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.     

(e)   
 
 This category for 2015 primarily includes a multi-asset fund that is redeemable.  The fair values of the investments have been estimated using capital accounts representing the Company s ownership interest in partners  capital.  In addition, for both 2014 and 2015, this category includes investments in several real estate funds.  The fair values of the investments have been estimated using capital accounts representing the Company s ownership interest in partners  capital.  The investments are not subject to redemption; however, distributions as a result of the liquidation of the underlying assets will be used to settle certain deferred compensation liabilities over time.    

(f)   
 
 This category includes the underlying third-party private equity funds within one consolidated BlackRock sponsored private equity fund of funds. The fair values of the investments in the third-party funds have been estimated using capital accounts representing the Company s ownership interest in each fund in the portfolio as well as other performance inputs. These investments are not subject to redemption; however, for certain funds the Company may sell or transfer its interest, which may need approval by the general partner of the underlying third-party funds. Due to the nature of the investments in this category, the Company reduces its investment by distributions that are received through the realization of the underlying assets of the funds. It is estimated that the underlying assets of these funds will be liquidated over a weighted-average period of approximately one year at December 31, 2014.     

 Fair Value Option .   
   
 As of December 31, 2015, assets for which the fair value option was elected were not material to the consolidated financial statements. 
   
 The following table summarizes information at December 31, 2014 related to those assets and liabilities for which the fair value option was elected:  

(in millions)  

December 31, 
 2014  

CLO Bank Loans:   

Aggregate principal amounts outstanding  

$  
 
 3,338  

Fair value  

3,260  

Aggregate unpaid principal balance in excess of (less than) fair value  

$  
 
 78  

Unpaid principal balance of loans more than 90 days past due  

$  
 
 6  

Aggregate fair value of loans more than 90 days past due  

2  

Aggregate unpaid principal balance in excess of fair value for loans more than 90 days past due  

$  
 
 4  

CLO Borrowings:   

Aggregate principal amounts outstanding  

$  
 
 3,508  

Fair value  

$  
 
 3,389  

At December 31, 2014, the principal amounts outstanding of the borrowings issued by the CLOs mature between 2016 and 2027.  
 During 2014 and 2013, the change in fair value of the bank loans and bonds held by the CLOs resulted in a $69 million and $153 million gain, respectively, which were offset by a $65 million and $117 million loss, respectively, from the change in fair value of the CLO borrowings.  The net gains (losses) were recorded in net gain (loss) on consolidated VIEs on the consolidated statements of income.  
 The change in fair value of the assets and liabilities included interest income and expense, respectively.  
 Effective January 1, 2015, the Company no longer consolidates CLOs due to the adoption of ASU 2015-02. See Note 2,  Significant Accounting Policies , for further information.  

7. Derivatives and Hedging  
 The Company maintains a program to enter into swaps to hedge against market price and interest rate exposures with respect to certain seed investments in sponsored investment products. At December 31, 2015, the Company had outstanding total return swaps and interest rate swaps with aggregate notional values of approximately $360 million and $46 million, respectively. At December 31, 2014, the Company had outstanding total return swaps and interest rate swaps with aggregate notional values of approximately $238 million and $84 million, respectively. 
 The Company has entered into a derivative, providing credit protection to a counterparty of approximately $17 million, representing the Company s maximum risk of loss with respect to the provision of credit protection. The Company carries the derivative at fair value based on the expected discounted future cash flows under the arrangement.  
 The fair values of the outstanding derivatives mentioned above were not material to the consolidated statements of financial condition at December 31, 2015 and 2014.  
   The Company executes forward foreign currency exchange contracts to mitigate the risk of certain foreign exchange movements. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had outstanding forward foreign currency exchange contracts with aggregate notional values of  
 F-24 

approximately $  169   million   and   $201 million  , respectively  . The fair value of the forward foreign currency exchange contracts at December 31,   2015 and   2014 was not material to the consolidated statement of financial condition.  
 Gains (losses) on total return swaps are recorded in nonoperating income (expense) and were $11 million, $(26) million and $(15) million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  
 Gains (losses) on the interest rate swaps are recorded in nonoperating income (expense) and were $(21) million for 2014. Gains (losses) were not material for 2015 and 2013.  
 Gains (losses) on forward foreign currency exchange contracts are recorded in other general and administration expense and were $(26) million for 2013. Gains (losses) were not material to the consolidated statements of income for 2015 and 2014.  
 The Company consolidates certain sponsored investment funds, which may utilize derivative instruments as a part of the funds  investment strategies. The fair value of such derivatives at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was not material. The change in fair value of such derivatives, which is recorded in nonoperating income (expense), was not material for 2015, 2014 and 2013.  
 See Note 12,  Borrowings , for more information on the Company s net investment hedge. 

8. Property and Equipment  
 Property and equipment consists of the following:  

N/A   
 
   Not Applicable     

 Qualifying software costs of approximately $48 million, $45 million and $35 million have been capitalized within equipment and computer software during 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and are being amortized over an estimated useful life of three years.  
 Depreciation and amortization expense was $115 million, $117 million and $128 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  

9. Goodwill  
 Goodwill activity during 2015 and 2014 was as follows:  

(1)   
 
 In 2015, amount represents $113 million of goodwill from the Company s acquisition of FutureAdvisor, which expanded the Company s digital wealth management capabilities, $49 million of goodwill from the Company s acquisition of Infraestructura Institucional, which expanded the Company s infrastructure capabilities in Mexico, and $19 million of goodwill from the Company s acquisition of certain assets related to BKCA.  The total consideration paid for these acquisitions was approximately $300 million, including $27 million of contingent consideration at fair value at time of close.    

(  2  )   
 
 The decrease in goodwill during both 2015 and 2014 primarily resulted from a decline related to tax benefits realized from tax-deductible goodwill in excess of book goodwill from the acquisition of the fund-of-funds business of Quellos Group, LLC in October 2007 (the  Quellos Transaction ). Goodwill related to the Quellos Transaction will continue to be reduced in future periods by the amount of tax benefits realized from tax-deductible goodwill in excess of book goodwill from the Quellos Transaction. The balance of the Quellos tax-deductible goodwill in excess of book goodwill was approximately $231 million and $263 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.     

 BlackRock assessed its goodwill for impairment as of July 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 and considered such factors as the book value and the market capitalization of the Company. The impairment assessment indicated no impairment charges were required. The Company continues to monitor its book value per share compared with closing prices of its common stock for potential indicators of impairment. At December 31, 2015, the Company s common stock closed at a market price of $340.52, which exceeded its book value of approximately $172.12 per share.  

F-25 

10. Intangible Assets   
 Intangible assets at December 31, 2015 and 2014 consisted of the following:  

N/A   
 
   Not Applicable     

The impairment tests performed for intangible assets as of July 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 indicated no impairment charges were required.  
 Estimated amortization expense for finite-lived intangible assets for each of the five succeeding years is as follows:  

Indefinite-Lived Acquired Management Contracts  
 In March 2015, in connection with the BKCA acquisition, the Company acquired $120 million of indefinite-lived management contracts.  
 Finite-Lived Acquired Management Contracts     
 In October 2015, in connection with the Infraestructura Institucional acquisition, the Company acquired $36 million of finite-lived management contracts with a weighted-average estimated useful life of approximately six years.  

11. Other Assets  
 At March 31, 2013, BlackRock held an approximately one-third economic equity interest in Private National Mortgage Acceptance Company, LLC ( PNMAC ), which is accounted for as an equity method investment and is included in other assets on the consolidated statements of financial condition. On May 8, 2013, PennyMac became the sole managing member of PNMAC in connection with an initial public offering of PennyMac (the  PennyMac IPO ). As a result of the 2013 PennyMac IPO, BlackRock recorded a noncash, nonoperating pre-tax gain of $39 million related to the carrying value of its equity method investment.  
 Subsequent to the PennyMac IPO, in 2013 the Company contributed 6.1 million units of its PennyMac investment to a new donor advised fund (the  Charitable Contribution ). The fair value of the Charitable Contribution was $124 million and is included in general and administration expense on the consolidated statements of income for 2013. In connection with the Charitable Contribution, the Company also recorded a noncash, nonoperating pre-tax gain of $80 million related to the contributed investment and a tax benefit of approximately $48 million.  
 The carrying value and fair value of the Company s interest (approximately 20% or 16 million shares and units) was approximately $222 million and $239 million, respectively, at December 31, 2015 and approximately $167 million and $269 million, respectively, at December 31, 2014. The fair value of the Company s interest reflected the PennyMac stock price at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively (a Level 1 input).  

F-26 

12. Borrowings   
 Short-Term Borrowings  
 2015 Revolving Credit Facility.  In March 2011, the Company entered into a five-year $3.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, which was amended in 2014, 2013 and 2012. In April 2015, the Company s credit facility was further amended to extend the maturity date to March 2020 and to increase the amount of the aggregate commitment to $4.0 billion (the  2015 credit facility ). The 2015 credit facility permits the Company to request up to an additional $1.0 billion of borrowing capacity, subject to lender credit approval, increasing the overall size of the 2015 credit facility to an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $5.0 billion. Interest on borrowings outstanding accrues at a rate based on the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread. The 2015 credit facility requires the Company not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio (ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, where net debt equals total debt less unrestricted cash) of 3 to 1, which was satisfied with a ratio of less than 1 to 1 at December 31, 2015. The 2015 credit facility provides back-up liquidity to fund ongoing working capital for general corporate purposes and various investment opportunities. At December 31, 2015, the Company had no amount outstanding under the 2015 credit facility.   
 Commercial Paper Program.  On October 14, 2009, BlackRock established a commercial paper program (the  CP Program ) under which the Company could issue unsecured commercial paper notes (the  CP Notes ) on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $4.0 billion as amended in April 2015.  The CP Program is currently supported by the 2015 credit facility. At December 31, 2015, BlackRock had no CP Notes outstanding.   
 Long-Term Borrowings  
 The carrying value and fair value of long-term borrowings estimated using market prices and foreign exchange rates at December 31, 2015 included the following:  

Long-term borrowings at December 31, 2014 had a carrying value of $4.922 billion and a fair value of $5.309 billion determined using market prices at the end of December 2014.  
 2025 Notes.     In May 2015, the Company issued  700 million of 1.25% senior unsecured notes maturing on May 6, 2025 (the  2025 Notes ). The notes are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The net proceeds of the 2025 Notes were used for general corporate purposes, including refinancing of outstanding indebtedness. Interest of approximately $10 million per year based on current exchange rates is payable annually on May 6 of each year. The 2025 Notes may be redeemed in whole or in part prior to maturity at any time at the option of the Company at a  make-whole  redemption price. The unamortized discount and debt issuance costs are being amortized over the remaining term of the 2025 Notes.    
 Upon conversion to U.S. dollars the Company designated the  700 million debt offering as a net investment hedge to offset its currency exposure relating to its net investment in certain euro functional currency operations. A gain of $19 million, net of tax, was recognized in other comprehensive income for 2015. No hedge ineffectiveness was recognized during 2015.  
 2024 Notes . In March 2014, the Company issued $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of 3.50% senior unsecured and unsubordinated notes maturing on March 18, 2024 (the  2024 Notes ). The net proceeds of the 2024 Notes were used to refinance certain indebtedness which matured in the fourth quarter of 2014. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 18 and September 18 of each year, or approximately $35 million per year. The 2024 Notes may be redeemed prior to maturity at any time in whole or in part at the option of the Company at a  make-whole  redemption price.  The unamortized discount and debt issuance costs are being amortized over the remaining term of the 2024 Notes.    
 2022 Notes.  In May 2012, the Company issued $1.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of unsecured unsubordinated obligations. These notes were issued as two separate series of senior debt securities, including $750 million of 1.375% notes, which were repaid in June 2015 at maturity, and $750 million of 3.375% notes maturing in June 2022 (the  2022 Notes ).   Net proceeds were used to fund the repurchase of BlackRock s common stock and Series B Preferred from Barclays and affiliates and for general corporate purposes. Interest on the 2022 Notes of approximately $25 million per year, respectively, is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year, which commenced December 1, 2012. The 2022 Notes may be redeemed prior to maturity at any time in whole or in part at the option of the Company at a  make-whole  redemption price. The  make-whole  redemption price represents a price, subject to the specific terms of the 2022 Notes and related indenture, that is the greater of (a) par value and (b) the present value of future payments that will not be paid because of an early redemption, which is discounted at a fixed spread over a comparable Treasury security.   The unamortized discount and debt issuance costs   are being amortized over the remaining term of the 2022 Notes.  
   2021 Notes.  In May 2011, the Company issued $1.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of unsecured unsubordinated obligations. These notes were issued as two separate series of senior debt securities, including $750 million of 4.25% notes maturing in May 2021 and $750 million of floating rate notes ( 2013 Floating Rate Notes ), which were repaid in May 2013 at maturity. Net proceeds of this offering were used to fund the repurchase of BlackRock s Series B Preferred from affiliates of Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. ( Merrill Lynch ). Interest on the 4.25% notes due in 2021 ( 2021 Notes ) is payable semi-annually on May 24 and November 24 of each year, which commenced November 24, 2011, and is approximately $32 million per year. The 2021 Notes may be redeemed prior to maturity at any time in whole or in part at the option of the   
 F-27 

Company at a  make-whole  redemption price.    The unamortized discount and debt issuance costs   are being amortized over the remaining term of the 2021 Notes.   
 2019 Notes.  In December 2009, the Company issued $2.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. These notes were issued as three separate series of senior debt securities including $0.5 billion of 2.25% notes, which were repaid in December 2012, $1.0 billion of 3.50% notes, which were repaid in December 2014 at maturity, and $1.0 billion of 5.0% notes maturing in December 2019 (the  2019 Notes ). Net proceeds of this offering were used to repay borrowings under the CP Program, which was used to finance a portion of the acquisition of Barclays Global Investors ( BGI ) from Barclays on December 1, 2009 (the  BGI Transaction ), and for general corporate purposes. Interest on the 2019 Notes of approximately $50 million per year is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 10 and December 10 of each year. These notes may be redeemed prior to maturity at any time in whole or in part at the option of the Company at a  make-whole  redemption price. The unamortized discount and debt issuance costs are being amortized over the remaining term of the 2019 Notes.   
 2017 Notes.  In September 2007, the Company issued $700 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior unsecured and unsubordinated notes maturing on September 15, 2017 (the  2017 Notes ). A portion of the net proceeds of the 2017 Notes was used to fund the initial cash payment for the acquisition of the fund-of-funds business of Quellos and the remainder was used for general corporate purposes. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, or approximately $44 million per year. The 2017 Notes may be redeemed prior to maturity at any time in whole or in part at the option of the Company at a  make-whole  redemption price. The unamortized discount and debt issuance costs are being amortized over the remaining term of the 2017 Notes.  

13. Commitments and Contingencies  
 Operating Lease Commitments  
 The Company leases its primary office spaces under agreements that expire through 2035. Future minimum commitments under these operating leases are as follows:  

Rent expense and certain office equipment expense under lease agreements amounted to $136 million, $132 million and $137 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  
 Investment Commitments .   At December 31, 2015, the Company had $179 million of various capital commitments to fund sponsored investment funds, including consolidated VIEs.  These funds include private equity funds, real estate funds, infrastructure funds and opportunistic funds. This amount excludes additional commitments made by consolidated funds of funds to underlying third-party funds as third-party noncontrolling interest holders have the legal obligation to fund the respective commitments of such funds of funds. In addition to the capital commitments of $179 million, the Company had approximately $38 million of contingent commitments for certain funds which have investment periods that have expired. Generally, the timing of the funding of these commitments is unknown and the commitments are callable on demand at any time prior to the expiration of the commitment. These unfunded commitments are not recorded on the consolidated statements of financial condition. These commitments do not include potential future commitments approved by the Company that are not yet legally binding. The Company intends to make additional capital commitments from time to time to fund additional investment products for, and with, its clients.   
 Contingencies  
 Contingent Payments.  The Company acts as the portfolio manager in a series of derivative transactions and has a maximum potential exposure of $17 million between the Company and counterparty. See Note 7,  Derivatives and Hedging , for further discussion.   
 Contingent Payments Related to Business Acquisitions.  In connection with certain acquisitions, BlackRock is required to make contingent payments, subject to the acquired businesses achieving specified performance targets over a certain period subsequent to the applicable acquisition date.  The fair value of the remaining aggregate contingent payments at December 31, 2015 is not significant to the condensed consolidated statement of financial condition and is included in other liabilities.   
 Legal Proceedings.  From time to time, BlackRock receives subpoenas or other requests for information from various U.S. federal, state governmental and domestic and international regulatory authorities in connection with certain industry-wide or other investigations or proceedings. It is BlackRock s policy to cooperate fully with such inquiries. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have been named as defendants in various legal actions, including arbitrations and other litigation arising in connection with BlackRock s activities. Additionally, BlackRock advised investment portfolios may be subject to lawsuits, any of which potentially could harm the investment returns of the applicable portfolio or result in the Company being liable to the portfolios for any resulting damages.  
   
   On May 27, 2014, certain purported investors in the BlackRock Global Allocation Fund, Inc. and the BlackRock Equity Dividend Fund (collectively, the  Funds ) filed a consolidated complaint (the  Consolidated Complaint ) in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against BlackRock Advisors, LLC, BlackRock Investment Management, LLC and BlackRock International Limited (collectively, the  Defendants ) under the caption  In re BlackRock Mutual Funds Advisory Fee Litigation . The Consolidated Complaint, which purports to be brought derivatively on behalf of the Funds, alleges that the Defendants violated Section 36(b) of the Investment Company Act by receiving  
 F-28 

allegedly excessive investment advisory fees from the   Funds. On February 24, 2015, the same plaintiffs filed another complaint in the same court against BlackRock Investment Management, LLC and BlackRock Advisors, LLC. The allegations and legal claims in both complaints are substantially similar, with the ne  w complaint purporting to challenge fees received by Defendants after the plaintiffs filed their prior complaint. Both complaints seek, among other things, to recover on behalf of the Funds all allegedly excessive advisory fees received by Defendants in th  e twelve month period preceding the start of each lawsuit, along with purported lost investment returns on those amounts, plus interest. On March 25, 2015, Defendants  motion to dismiss the Consolidated Complaint was denied. The Defendants believe the clai  ms in both lawsuits are without merit and intend to vigorously defend the actions.  
   
 Between November 12, 2015 and November 16, 2015, BlackRock, Inc., BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ( BRA ) and the BlackRock Granite Property Fund, Inc. ( Granite Fund ), along with certain other Granite Fund-related entities (collectively, the  BlackRock Parties ) were named as defendants in thirteen separate lawsuits filed in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Alameda arising out of the June 16, 2015 collapse of a balcony at the Library Gardens apartment complex in Berkeley, California (the  Property ). The Property is indirectly owned by the Granite Fund, which is managed by BRA. The plaintiffs also named as defendants in the lawsuits Greystar, which is the property manager of the Property, and certain other entities, including the developer of the Property, building contractors and building materials suppliers. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that the BlackRock Parties were negligent in their ownership, control and maintenance of the Property s balcony, and seek monetary, including punitive, damages. The Company believes the claims in the lawsuits are without merit and intends to vigorously defend the actions. 
 Management, after consultation with legal counsel, currently does not anticipate that the aggregate liability arising out of regulatory matters or lawsuits will have a material effect on BlackRock s results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. However, there is no assurance as to whether any such pending or threatened matters will have a material effect on BlackRock s results of operations, financial position or cash flows in any future reporting period. Due to uncertainties surrounding the outcome of these matters, management cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters.   
 Indemnifications.  In the ordinary course of business or in connection with certain acquisition agreements, BlackRock enters into contracts pursuant to which it may agree to indemnify third parties in certain circumstances. The terms of these indemnities vary from contract to contract and the amount of indemnification liability, if any, cannot be determined or the likelihood of any liability is considered remote. Consequently, no liability has been recorded on the consolidated statements of financial condition.   
 In connection with securities lending transactions, BlackRock has issued certain indemnifications to certain securities lending clients against potential loss resulting from a borrower s failure to fulfill its obligations under the securities lending agreement should the value of the collateral pledged by the borrower at the time of default be insufficient to cover the borrower s obligation under the securities lending agreement. At December 31, 2015, the Company indemnified certain of its clients for their securities lending loan balances of approximately $169.3 billion. The Company held as agent, cash and securities totaling $179.6 billion as collateral for indemnified securities on loan at December 31, 2015. The fair value of these indemnifications was not material at December 31, 2015.  

14. Stock-Based Compensation  
 The components of stock-based compensation expense are as follows:  

Stock Award and Incentive Plan.  Pursuant to the BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the  Award Plan ), options to purchase shares of the Company s common stock at an exercise price not less than the market value of BlackRock s common stock on the date of grant in the form of stock options, restricted stock or RSUs may be granted to employees and nonemployee directors. A maximum of 34,500,000 shares of common stock were authorized for issuance under the Award Plan. Of this amount, 7,621,046 shares remain available for future awards at December 31, 2015. Upon exercise of employee stock options, the issuance of restricted stock or the vesting of RSUs, the Company issues shares out of treasury to the extent available.   
 Restricted Stock and RSUs.  Pursuant to the Award Plan, restricted stock grants and RSUs may be granted to certain employees. Substantially all restricted stock and RSUs vest over periods ranging from one to three years and are expensed using the straight-line method over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was, in-substance, multiple awards.    
 Restricted stock and RSU activity for 2015 is summarized below.  

(1)   
 
 At December 31, 2015, approximately 2.8 million awards are expected to vest and 0.2 million awards have vested but have not been converted.     

 F-29 

The Company values restricted stock and RSUs at their   grant-date fair value as measured by BlackRock s common stock price. The total fair market value of RSUs  /restricted stock   granted to employees during 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $  473   million, $472 million and $390   million, respectively. The total fair market value of RSUs  /restricted stock   converted to common stock during 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $  379   million, $534 million and $528 million, respectively.     
 At December 31, 2015, the intrinsic value of outstanding RSUs was $1.0 billion, reflecting a closing stock price of $340.52 at December 31, 2015.  
 RSUs/restricted stock granted under the Award Plan primarily related to the following:  

In addition the Company also granted RSUs of 120,935, 166,018 and 117,339 during 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  
 At December 31, 2015, there was $305 million in total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested RSUs. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over the remaining weighted-average period of 0.9 years.  
 In January 2016, the Company granted under the Award Plan  

1,030,964 RSUs or shares of restricted stock to employees as part of annual incentive compensation that vest ratably over three years from the date of grant; and    

Market Performance-based RSUs.  Pursuant to the Award Plan, market performance-based RSUs may be granted to certain employees. The market performance-based RSUs require that separate 15%, 25% and 35% share price appreciation targets be achieved during the six-year term of the awards. The awards are split into three tranches and each tranche may vest if the specified target increase in share price is met. Eligible vesting dates for each tranche are January 31 (or, if such date is not a business day, the next following business day) of the year in which the fourth, fifth or sixth anniversaries of the grant-date occurs. Certain awards are forfeited if the employee leaves BlackRock before the vesting date. These awards are amortized over a service period of four years, which is the longer of the explicit service period or the period in which the market target is expected to be met. Market performance-based RSUs are not considered participating securities as the dividend equivalents are subject to forfeiture prior to vesting of the award. During 2015 there were no market performance-based awards granted.  In 2014 and 2013, the Company granted 315,961 and 556,581 market performance-based RSUs, respectively.  The 2013 grant will be funded primarily by shares currently held by PNC (see   Long-Term Incentive Plans     Funded by PNC   below).   
 Market performance-based RSU activity for 2015 is summarized below.  

(1)   
 
 At December 31, 2015, approximately 1.3 million awards are expected to vest and an immaterial amount of awards have vested and have not been converted.       

 At December 31, 2015, total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested market performance-based awards was $47 million. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over the remaining weighted-average period of 0.9 years.  
 At December 31, 2015, the intrinsic value of outstanding market performance-based awards was $469 million reflecting a closing stock price of $340.52. 
 The grant-date fair value of the awards was   $62 million in 2014 and $71 million in 2013. The fair value was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation with the following assumptions:  

The Company s expected stock volatility assumption was based upon an average of the historical stock price fluctuations of BlackRock s common stock and an implied volatility at the grant-date. The dividend yield assumption was derived using estimated dividends over the expected term and the stock price at the date of grant. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield at date of grant.  
 F-30 

Performance-Based RSUs.    Pursuant to the   Award Plan  , performance-based RSUs may be granted to certain employees. Each performance-based award consists of a  base  number of RSUs granted to the employee. The number of share  s that an employee ultimately receives at vesting will be equal to the base number of performance-based RSUs granted, multiplied by a predetermined percentage determined in accordance with the level of attainment of Company performance measures during the   performance period and could be higher or lower than the original RSU grant. The awards are generally forfeited if the employee leaves the Company before the vesting date. Performance-based RSUs are not considered participating securities as the dividend e  quivalents are subject to forfeiture prior to vesting of the award.  
 In January 2015, the Company granted 262,847 performance-based RSUs to certain employees that cliff vest 100% on January 31, 2018. These awards are amortized over a service period of three years.  The number of shares distributed at vesting could be higher or lower than the original grant based on the level of attainment of predetermined Company performance measures. 
 Performance-based RSU activity for 2015 is summarized below. 

At December 31, 2015, total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested performance-based awards was $59 million.  The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over the remaining weighted-average period of 2.1 years. 
 The Company values performance-based RSUs at their grant-date fair value as measured by BlackRock s common stock price. The total grant-date fair market value of performance-based RSUs expected to vest was $90 million. 
 At December 31, 2015, the intrinsic value of outstanding performance-based RSUs was $87 million reflecting a closing stock price of $340.52. 
 In January 2016, the Company granted 375,242 performance-based RSUs to certain employees that cliff vest 100% on January 31, 2019. These awards are amortized over a service period of three years.  The number of shares distributed at vesting could be higher or lower than the original grant based on the level of attainment of predetermined Company performance measures. 
 Long-Term Incentive Plans Funded by PNC.  Under a share surrender agreement, PNC committed to provide up to 4 million shares of BlackRock stock, held by PNC, to fund certain BlackRock long-term incentive plans ( LTIP ). The current share surrender agreement commits PNC to provide BlackRock series C nonvoting participating preferred stock to fund the remaining committed shares. As of December 31, 2015, 2.7 million shares had been surrendered by PNC.          
 At December 31, 2015, the remaining shares committed by PNC of 1.3 million were available to fund certain future long-term incentive awards.  
 In January 2016, 548,277 shares were surrendered by PNC. 
 Stock Options.  Stock option grants were made to certain employees pursuant to the Award Plan in 1999 through 2007. Options granted have a ten-year life, vested ratably over periods ranging from two to five years and became exercisable upon vesting. The Company has not granted any stock options subsequent to the January 2007 grant, which vested on September 29, 2011. Stock option activity for 2015 is summarized below.   

The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised during 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $128 million, $4 million and $19 million, respectively.     
 The aggregate intrinsic value of exercisable shares was $27 million at December 31, 2015, reflecting a closing stock price of $340.52.  The weighted average remaining life of the options outstanding at December 31, 2015 was approximately one year.   
 As of December 31, 2015, the Company had no remaining unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to stock options.  
 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ESPP ).  The ESPP allows eligible employees to purchase the Company s common stock at 95% of the fair market value on the last day of each three-month offering period. The Company does not record compensation expense related to employees purchasing shares under the ESPP.   

15. Employee Benefit Plans  
 Deferred Compensation Plans  
 Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan.  The Company adopted a Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan ( VDCP ) that allows eligible employees in the United States to elect to defer between 1% and 100% of their annual cash incentive compensation. The participants must specify a deferral period of up to 10 years from the year of deferral and additionally, elect to receive distributions in the form of a lump sum or in up to 10 annual installments. The Company may fund the obligation through the rabbi trust on behalf of the plan s participants.   
 F-31 

The rabbi trust established for the VDCP, with   assets totaling   $6  5   million at   both   December 31, 2015 and 2014, is reflected in   investments on the consolidated statements of financial condition. Such investments are classified as trading investments. The corresponding liability balance of $  88   million and $78 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, is reflected on the   consolidated statements of financial condition as accrued compensation and benefits. Earnings in the rabbi trust, including unrealized appreciation or depreciation, are reflected as nonoperating income (expense) and changes in the corresponding liability a  re reflected as employee compensation and benefits expense on the consolidated statements of income.   
   
 Other Deferred Compensation Plans.  The Company has additional compensation plans for the purpose of providing deferred compensation and retention incentives to certain employees. For these plans, the final value of the deferred amount to be distributed in cash upon vesting is associated with investment returns of certain investment funds. The liabilities for these plans were $178 million and $126 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and are reflected in the consolidated statements of financial condition as accrued compensation and benefits. In January 2016, the Company granted approximately $151 million of additional deferred compensation that will fluctuate with investment returns and will vest ratably over three years from the date of grant.   
 Defined Contribution Plans  
 The Company has several defined contribution plans primarily in the United States and United Kingdom.  
 Certain of the Company s U.S. employees participate in a defined contribution plan ( U.S. Plan ). Employee contributions of up to 8% of eligible compensation, as defined by the plan and subject to Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ) limitations, are matched by the Company at 50% up to a maximum of $5,000 annually. In addition, the Company makes an annual retirement contribution to eligible participants equal to 3-5% of eligible compensation. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company s contribution expense related to the U.S. Plan was $72 million, $67 million and $63 million, respectively.  
 Certain U.K. wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company contribute to a defined contribution plan for their employees ( U.K. Plan ).  The contributions range between 6% and 15% of each employee s eligible compensation. The Company s contribution expense related to this plan was $33 million in both 2015 and 2014, and $29 million in 2013.  
 In addition, the contribution expense related to defined contribution plans in other regions was $18 million in 2015 and 2014, and 2013.  
 Defined Benefit Plans.  The Company has several defined benefit pension plans primarily in Japan and Germany. All accrued benefits under the Germany defined benefit plan are currently frozen and the plan is closed to new participants. The participant benefits under the Germany plan will not change with salary increases or additional years of service. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the plan assets for both these plans were approximately $22 million and $21 million, respectively. The underfunded obligations at December 31, 2015 and 2014 were not material. Benefit payments for the next five years and in aggregate for the five years thereafter are not expected to be material.  

16. Related Party Transactions  
 Determination of Related Parties  
 PNC.  The Company considers PNC, along with its affiliates, to be related parties based on the level of its ownership of BlackRock capital stock. At December 31, 2015, PNC owned approximately 21.1% of the Company s voting common stock and held approximately 22.2% of the total capital stock.   
 Registered Investment Companies and Equity Method Investments.  The Company considers the registered investment companies that it manages, which include mutual funds and exchange-traded funds, to be related parties as a result of the Company s advisory relationship. In addition, equity method investments are considered related parties, due to the Company s influence over the financial and operating policies of the investee.   
   
 Revenue from Related Parties  
 Revenues for services provided by the Company to these and other related parties are as follows:  

The Company provides investment advisory and administration services to its open- and closed-end funds and other commingled or pooled funds and separate accounts in which related parties invest. In addition, the Company provides investment advisory and administration services  
 F-32 

to PNC and its affiliates for fees based on AUM. Further, the Company provides risk management services to PNC. The Company records its investment advisory and administration fees net of retrocessions.   
   Aggregate Expenses for Transactions with Related Parties   
 Aggregate expenses included in the consolidated statements of income for transactions with related parties are as follows:  

Certain Agreements and Arrangements with PNC  
 PNC.  On February 27, 2009, BlackRock entered into an amended and restated implementation and stockholder agreement with PNC, and a third amendment to the share surrender agreement with PNC.    
 Receivables and Payables with Related Parties.  Due from related parties, which is included within other assets on the consolidated statements of financial condition was $73 million and $89 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and primarily represented receivables from certain investment products managed by BlackRock. Accounts receivable at December 31, 2015 and 2014 included $705 million and $747 million, respectively, related to receivables from BlackRock mutual funds, including   iShares  , for investment advisory and administration services.   
 Due to related parties, which is included within other liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial condition, was $18 million and $12 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and primarily represented payables to certain investment products managed by BlackRock.  

17. Net Capital Requirements  
 The Company is required to maintain net capital in certain regulated subsidiaries within a number of jurisdictions, which is partially maintained by retaining cash and cash equivalent investments in those subsidiaries or jurisdictions. As a result, such subsidiaries of the Company may be restricted in their ability to transfer cash between different jurisdictions and to their parents. Additionally, transfers of cash between international jurisdictions, including repatriation to the United States, may have adverse tax consequences that could discourage such transfers.  
 Banking Regulatory Requirements.  BlackRock Institutional Trust Company, N.A. ( BTC ), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is chartered as a national bank whose powers are limited to trust activities. BTC is subject to regulatory capital requirements administered by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Under the capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, BTC must meet specific capital guidelines that invoke quantitative measures of BTC s assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under the regulatory accounting practices. BTC s capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors.   
 Quantitative measures established by regulators to ensure capital adequacy require BTC to maintain a minimum Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 leverage ratio, as well as Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios. Based on BTC s calculations as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, it exceeded the applicable capital adequacy requirements.  

F-33 

Broker-dealers.   BlackRock Investments, LLC and BlackRock Execution Services are registered broker-dealers and wholly owned subsidiaries of BlackRock that are subject to the Uniform Net Capital requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which requires mainten  ance of certain minimum net capital levels.   
 Capital Requirements.  At both December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company was required to maintain approximately $1.1 billion in net capital in certain regulated subsidiaries, including BTC, entities regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority in the United Kingdom, and the Company s broker-dealers. The Company was in compliance with all applicable regulatory net capital requirements.   

18. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  
 The following table presents changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)   (   AOCI ) by component for 2015, 2014 and 2013:  

(1)   
 
 All amounts are net of tax.     

(4  )   
 
 The pre-tax amount reclassified from AOCI was included in net gain (loss) on investments on the consolidated statements of income.    

19. Capital Stock  
 The Company s authorized common stock and nonvoting participating preferred stock, $0.01 par value, ( Preferred ) consisted of the following:  

January 2013 PNC Capital Contribution.  In January 2013, PNC surrendered to BlackRock 205,350 shares of BlackRock Series C Preferred to fund certain LTIP awards in accordance with the share surrender agreement between PNC and BlackRock.   
 Cash Dividends for Common and Preferred Shares / RSUs.  During 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company paid cash dividends of $8.72 per share (or $1,476 million), $7.72 per share (or $1,338 million)and $6.72 per share (or $1,168 million), respectively.   
 Share Repurchases.  The Company repurchased 3.1 million common shares in open market-transactions under its share repurchase program for $1.1 billion during 2015. At December 31, 2015, there were 6.3 million shares still authorized to be repurchased.   
 F-34 

The Company s common and preferred shares issued and outstanding an  d related activity consist of the following:   

20. Income Taxes  
 The components of income tax expense for 2015, 2014 and 2013, are as follows:  

Income tax expense has been based on the following components of income before taxes, less net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests:  

The foreign income before taxes includes countries that have statutory tax rates that are lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, such as the United Kingdom, Channel Islands, Canada and the Netherlands.  
   
 A reconciliation of income tax expense with expected federal income tax expense computed at the applicable federal income tax rate of 35% is as follows:  

Deferred income taxes are provided for the effects of temporary differences between the tax basis of an asset or liability and its reported amount in the consolidated financial statements. These temporary differences result in taxable or deductible amounts in future years.  
 F-35 

The components of deferred income tax assets and liabilities are shown below   

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recorded net when related to the same tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2015, the Company recorded on the consolidated statement of financial condition deferred income tax assets, within other assets, and deferred income tax liabilities of   $20 million and $4,851 million, respectively. At December 31, 2014, the Company recorded on the consolidated statement of financial condition deferred income tax assets, within other assets, and deferred income tax liabilities of $10 million and $4,989 million, respectively. 
 During 2015, tax legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and domestic state and local tax changes resulted in a $54 million net noncash benefit related to the revaluation of certain deferred income tax liabilities. During 2014, state and local tax changes resulted in a $4 million net noncash benefit related to the revaluation of certain deferred income tax liabilities. 
   At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had available state net operating loss carryforwards of $1.5 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, which will begin to expire in 2017. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $135 million and $137 million, respectively, of which $6 million will begin to expire in 2017 and the balance will carry forward indefinitely. At December 31, 2015, the Company had foreign tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes of $83 million which will begin to expire in 2023.   
 At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had $20 million and $29 million of valuation allowances for deferred income tax assets, respectively, recorded on the consolidated statements of financial condition. The year-over-year decrease in the valuation allowance primarily related to the realization of tax loss carryforwards and certain foreign deferred income tax assets.  
 Goodwill recorded in connection with the Quellos Transaction has been reduced during the period by the amount of tax benefit realized from tax-deductible goodwill. See Note 9,  Goodwill , for further discussion.  
 Current income taxes are recorded net on the consolidated statements of financial condition when related to the same tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2015, the Company had current income taxes receivable and payable of $166 million and $79 million, respectively, recorded in other assets and accounts payable and accrued liabilities, respectively. At December 31, 2014, the Company had current income taxes receivable and payable of $117 million and $125 million, respectively, recorded in other assets and accounts payable and accrued liabilities, respectively. 
 The Company does not provide deferred taxes on the excess of the financial reporting over tax basis on its investments in foreign subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration. The excess totaled $4,734 million and $3,871 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The determination of the additional deferred income taxes on the excess has not been provided because it is not practicable due to the complexities associated with its hypothetical calculation.  
 The following tabular reconciliation presents the total amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits:  

Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, are $320 million, $283 million and $304 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate.  
   The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters as a component of income tax expense. Related to the unrecognized tax benefits noted above, the Company accrued interest and penalties of $12 million during 2015 and in total, as of December 31, 2015, had recognized a liability for interest and penalties of $56 million. The Company accrued interest and penalties of $(25) million during 2014 and in total, as of December 31, 2014, had recognized a liability for interest and penalties of $44 million. The Company accrued interest  
 F-36 

and penalties of $(1) million during 2013 and in total, as of December 31, 2013, had recognized a liability for interest and penalties of $68 million.     
 BlackRock is subject to U.S. federal income tax, state and local income tax, and foreign income tax in multiple jurisdictions. Tax years after 2009 remain open to U.S. federal income tax examination.  
 In June 2014, the IRS commenced its examination of BlackRock s 2010 through 2012 tax years, and while the impact on the consolidated financial statements is undetermined, it is not expected to be material.  
 The Company is currently under audit in several state and local jurisdictions. The significant state and local income tax examinations are in New York State and New York City for tax years 2009 through 2011, and New Jersey for tax years 2007 through 2009. No state and local income tax audits cover years earlier than 2007.  No state and local income tax audits are expected to result in an assessment material to BlackRock s consolidated financial statements.  
 Her Majesty s Revenue and Customs  ( HMRC ) United Kingdom income tax audit for various U.K. BlackRock subsidiaries is in progress for tax years 2009 and forward. While the impact on the consolidated financial statements is undetermined, it is not expected to be material.  
 At December 31, 2015, it is reasonably possible the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits will change within the next twelve months due to completion of tax authorities  exams or the expiration of statues of limitations. Management estimates that the existing liability for uncertain tax positions could decrease by approximately $13 million to $33 million within the next twelve months.  

21. Earnings Per Share  
 The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted EPS for 2015, 2014 and 2013 under the treasury stock method:  

There were no anti-dilutive RSUs for 2015 and 2013. Amounts of anti-dilutive RSUs for 2014 were immaterial. In addition, there were no anti-dilutive stock options for 2015, 2014 and 2013.  

22. Segment Information  
 The Company s management directs BlackRock s operations as one business, the asset management business.  The Company utilizes a consolidated approach to assess performance and allocate resources. As such, the Company operates in one business segment as defined in ASC 280-10. 
 The following table illustrates investment advisory, administration fees, securities lending revenue and performance fees by product type,  BlackRock Solutions  and advisory revenue, distribution fees and other revenue for 2015, 2014 and 2013.  

The following table illustrates total revenue for 2015, 2014 and 2013 by geographic region. These amounts are aggregated on a legal entity basis and do not necessarily reflect where the customer resides.  

F-37 

The following table illustrates long-lived assets that consist of goodwill and property and equipment at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 by geographic region. These amounts are aggregated on a legal entity basis and do not nec  essarily reflect where the asset is physically located.   

Americas primarily is comprised of the United States and Canada, while Europe primarily is comprised of the United Kingdom and Luxembourg. Asia-Pacific primarily is comprised of Hong Kong, Australia, Japan and Singapore.  

23. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)  

(1)   
 
 The first quarter of 2015 included nonrecurring tax benefits of $69 million, primarily due to the realization of losses from changes in the Company s organizational tax structure and the resolution of certain outstanding tax matters.       

(2)   
 
 The fourth quarter of 2015 included a $64 million noncash tax benefit, primarily related to the revaluation of certain deferred income tax liabilities, including the effect of tax legislation enacted in the United Kingdom.         

(3  )   
 
 The second quarter of 2014 included a $23 million net noncash tax expense, primarily associated with the revaluation of certain deferred income tax liabilities arising from the state and local tax effect of changes in the Company s organizational structure. In addition, the second quarter of 2014 benefited from an improvement in the geographic mix of earnings and included a $34 million net tax benefit related to several favorable nonrecurring items.     

(4  )   
 
 The third quarter of 2014 included a $32 million noncash tax benefit, primarily associated with the revaluation of certain deferred income tax liabilities related to intangible assets and goodwill as a result of domestic state and local tax changes.     

In addition, the third quarter of 2014 included a $94 million tax benefit, primarily due to the resolution of certain outstanding tax matters related to the acquisition of BGI. In connection with the acquisition, BlackRock recorded a $50 million indemnification asset for unrecognized tax benefits. Due to the resolution of such tax matters, BlackRock recorded $50 million of general and administration expense to reflect the reduction of the indemnification asset and an offsetting $50 million tax benefit.     

(6  )   
 
 During the second quarter of 2015, the Company adopted new accounting guidance on consolidations effective January 1, 2015 using the modified retrospective method.   Upon adoption, the Company recorded a change to total nonoperating income (expense) with an equal and offsetting change to noncontrolling interests for the three months ended March 31, 2015.  There was no impact to net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. or to BlackRock s earnings per share.       

F-38 

24. Subsequent Events   
 In November 2015, the Company announced that it had entered an agreement to assume investment management responsibilities of approximately $87 billion of cash assets under management from BofA  Global Capital Management, Bank of America s asset management business. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2016, subject to customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions.  This transaction is not expected to be material to the Company s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
 On January 14, 2016, the Board of Directors approved BlackRock s quarterly dividend of $2.29 to be paid on March 23, 2016 to stockholders of record on March 7, 2016.  
 The Company conducted a review for additional subsequent events and determined that no additional subsequent events had occurred that would require accrual or additional disclosures. 

F-39 
 
    As used in this exhibit list,  BlackRock  refers to BlackRock, Inc. (formerly named New BlackRock, Inc. and previously, New Boise, Inc.) (Commission File No. 001-33099) and  Old BlackRock  refers to BlackRock Holdco 2, Inc. (formerly named BlackRock, Inc.)   (Commission File No. 001-15305), which is the predecessor of BlackRock. The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:   
   
 Exhibit Index 
 Please note that the agreements included as exhibits to this Form 10-K are included to provide information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about BlackRock or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement that have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time.  

Exhibit No.  

Description  

3.1(1)  

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of BlackRock.  

3.2(2)  

Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of BlackRock, Inc.  

3.3(3)  

Amended and Restated Bylaws of BlackRock.  

3.4(1)  

Certificate of Designations of Series A Convertible Participating Preferred Stock of BlackRock.  

3.5(4)  

Certificate of Designations of Series B Convertible Participating Preferred Stock of BlackRock.  

3.6(4)  

Certificate of Designations of Series C Convertible Participating Preferred Stock of BlackRock.  

3.7(5)  

Certificate of Designations of Series D Convertible Participating Preferred Stock of BlackRock.  

4.1(6)  

Specimen of Common Stock Certificate.  

4.2(7)  

Indenture, dated September 17, 2007, between BlackRock and The Bank of New York, as trustee, relating to senior debt securities.  

4.3(8)  

Form of 6.25% Notes due 2017.  

4.4(9)  

Form of 5.00% Notes due 2019.  

4.5(10)  

Form of 4.25% Notes due 2021.  

4.6(11)  

Form of 3.375% Notes due 2022.  

4.7(12)  

Form of 3.500% Notes due 2024.  

4.8(13)  

Form of 1.250% Notes due 2025.  

4.9(13)  

Officers  Certificate, dated May 6, 2015, for the 1.250% Notes due 2025 issued pursuant to the Indenture.  

10.1  

BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+  

10.2(14)  

Amended and Restated BlackRock, Inc. 1999 Annual Incentive Performance Plan.+  

10.3(15)  

Amendment No. 1 to the BlackRock, Inc. Amended and Restated 1999 Annual Incentive Performance Plan.+  

10.4(16)  

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+  

10.5(16)  

Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (BPIP) under the BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+  

10.6(1)  

Form of Stock Option Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Stock Options under the BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+  

10.7(1)  

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Restricted Stock under the BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+  

10.8(1)  

Form of Directors  Restricted Stock Unit Agreement expected to be used in connection with future grants of Restricted Stock Units under the BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan.+  

10.9  

BlackRock, Inc. Amended and Restated Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of November 16, 2015.+  

10.10(17)  

Share Surrender Agreement, dated October 10, 2002 (the  Share Surrender Agreement ), among Old BlackRock, PNC Asset Management, Inc. and The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.+  

10.11(18)  

First Amendment, dated as of February 15, 2006, to the Share Surrender Agreement.+  

10.12(19)  

Second Amendment, dated as of June 11, 2007, to the Share Surrender Agreement.+  

10.13(4)  

Third Amendment, dated as of February 27, 2009, to the Share Surrender Agreement.+  

10.14(20)  

Fourth Amendment, dated as of August 7, 2012, to the Share Surrender Agreement.+  

10.15(21)  

Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of March 10, 2011, by and among BlackRock, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender, issuing lender and L/C agent, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Japanese Yen lender, a group of lenders, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, Citibank, N.A., as syndication agent and Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as documentation agents.  

10.16(22)  

Amendment No. 1, dated as of March 30, 2012, by and among BlackRock, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender, issuing lender, L/C agent and a lender, and the banks and other financial institutions referred to therein.  

10.17(23)  

Amendment No. 2, dated as of March 28, 2013, by and among BlackRock, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender, issuing lender, L/C agent and a lender, and the banks and other financial institutions referred to therein.  

10.18(24)  

Amendment No. 3, dated as of March 28, 2014, by and among BlackRock, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender, issuing lender, L/C agent and a lender, and the banks and other financial institutions referred to therein.  

10.19(25)  

Amendment No. 4, dated as of April 2, 2015, by and among BlackRock, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender, issuing lender, L/C agent and a lender, and the banks and other financial institutions referred to therein.  

10.20(26)   

Second Amended and Restated Global Distribution Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, among BlackRock and Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc.  

10.21(3)  

Amended and Restated Implementation and Stockholder Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2009, between The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and BlackRock.  

10.2  2  (27)   

Amendment No. 1, dated as of June 11, 2009, to the Amended and Restated Implementation and Stockholder Agreement between The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and BlackRock.  

10.23(28)  

Lease Agreement, dated as of February 17, 2010, among BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited and Mourant   Co Trustees Limited and Mourant Property Trustees Limited as Trustees of the Drapers Gardens Unit Trust for the lease of Drapers Gardens, 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London, EC2, United Kingdom.  

10.24(29)  

Letter Agreement, dated February 12, 2013, between Gary S. Shedlin and BlackRock.+  

10.25(30)  

Amended and Restated Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between BlackRock and Barclays Capital Inc., dated as of December 23, 2014.  

10.26(30)  

Amended and Restated Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between BlackRock and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., dated as of December 23, 2014.  

10.27(30)  

Amended and Restated Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between BlackRock and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, dated as of January 6, 2015.  

10.28(30)  

Amended and Restated Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between BlackRock and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC dated as of January 6, 2015.  

12.1  

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  

21.1  

Subsidiaries of Registrant.  

23.1  

Deloitte   Touche LLP Consent.  

31.1  

Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.  

31.2  

Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.  

32.1  

Section 906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.  

101.INS  

XBRL Instance Document.  

101.SCH  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.  

101.CAL  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.  

101.DEF  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.  

101.LAB  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.  

101.PRE  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.  

(1)   
 
 Incorporated by reference to BlackRock s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 5, 2006.    

(5)   
 
 Incorporated by reference to BlackRock s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 3, 2009.    

+   
 
 Denotes compensatory plans or arrangements.    

Confidential treatment has been granted for certain portions of this exhibit, which portions have been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission.    

<EX-10.1>
 2
 blk-ex101_835.htm
 SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED 1999 STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN

blk-ex101_835.htm

Exhibit 10.1  
   
 AS ADOPTED 
 BLACKROCK, INC.  
 SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED 1999 STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN  
 1.   Purpose; Types of Awards; Construction  .   
 The purposes of the Plan are to afford an incentive to Eligible Individuals to (i) continue as employees of or other service providers to the Company and its Affiliates, (ii) increase their efforts on behalf of the Company and (iii) promote the success of the Company s business. Pursuant to the Plan, the Company may grant stock options (including  incentive stock options  and  nonqualified stock options ), stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards or cash-based awards.  
 2.   Definitions  .   
 (a)   Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act.  
 (b)   Award  means any Option, SAR, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit or Other Stock-Based Award or Cash-Based Award granted under the Plan.  
 (c)   Award Agreement  means any written agreement, contract, or other instrument or document evidencing an Award.  
 (d)   Beneficial Owner  (or any variant thereof) means a  beneficial owner  as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act.  
 (e)   Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company.  
 (f)   Cash-Based Award  means an Award granted pursuant to Section 6(b)(v) that is not denominated or valued by reference to Stock, including any such Award that is subject to the attainment of Performance Goals or otherwise as permitted under the Plan.  
 (g)   Change in Control  means the occurrence of any of the following:  
 (i)  any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (A) of paragraph (iii) below; or  
 (ii)  during any period of twelve consecutive months, the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving on the Board: individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including, but not limited to, a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company s stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of a majority of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the Effective Date or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
 (iii)  there is consummated a merger, amalgamation or consolidation of the Company or any Subsidiary thereof with any other corporation, other than (A) a merger,  

(iv)    amalgamation or consolidation which results in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger, amalgamation or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or the amalgamated company or any parent thereof) at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or the amalgamated company or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger, amalgamation or consolidation or (B)     a merger, amalgamation or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Company     s then outstanding securities; or    
 (v)  the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets is consummated, other than (A) a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets to an entity, at least fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of the Company following the completion of such transaction in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale or (B) a sale or disposition of all or substantially all of the Company s assets immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the board of directors of the entity to which such assets are sold or disposed or, if such entity is a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof.  
 For each Award that constitutes deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Code, to the extent required to avoid additional income or other tax under Section 409A of the Code, a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred under the Plan with respect to such Award, only if a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company or a change in ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company shall also be deemed to have occurred under Section 409A of the Code. A Change in Control shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the holders of Stock immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
 (h)   Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.  
 (i)   Committee  means, until the Board appoints a different Committee to administer the Plan, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board. The composition of the Committee shall at all times satisfy the applicable requirements of the New York Stock Exchange listing requirements.  
 (j)   Company  means BlackRock, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware, or any successor corporation.  
 (k)   Effective Date  means the date on which the Plan is approved by stockholders of the Company.  
 (l)   Eligible Individual  means an Employee, Non-Employee Director or other individual performing advisory or consulting services for the Company or an Affiliate, as determined and designated by the Committee.  
 (m)   Employee  means any individual performing services for the Company or an Affiliate of the Company and designated as an employee on the payroll records of the Company or such Affiliate.  
 (n)   Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.  
 (o)   Fair Market Value  means, with respect to Stock or other property, the fair market value of such Stock or other property determined by such methods or procedures as shall be established in from time to time by the Committee, including without limitation, pursuant to any equity approval policy adopted by the Committee. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the per share Fair Market Value of Stock as of a particular date shall mean (i) the closing sales price per share of Stock on the national securities exchange on which the Stock is principally traded, for such date, or (ii) if the shares of Stock are then traded in an over-the-counter market, the average of the closing bid and asked prices for the shares of Stock in such over-the-counter market for the last preceding date on which there was a sale of such Stock in such market, or (iii) if the shares of Stock are not then listed on a national securities exchange or traded in an over-the-counter market, such value as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.  

(p)       Grantee      means an Eligible Individual who has been granted an Award under the Plan.    
 (q)   ISO  means any Option intended to be and designated as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.  
 (r)   Non-Employee Director  means a member of the Board who is not also an Employee.  
 (s)   NQSO  means any Option that is designated as a nonqualified stock option.  
 (t)   Option  means a right, granted to a Grantee under Section 6(b)(i), to purchase shares of Stock. An Option may be either an ISO or an NQSO; provided that ISOs may be granted only to employees of the Company or any Subsidiary.  
 (u)   Other Stock-Based Award  means an Award granted pursuant to Section 6(b)(v) that is denominated or valued in whole or in part by reference to Stock, including, but not limited to (1) restricted or unrestricted Stock awarded subject to the attainment of Performance Goals or otherwise as permitted under the Plan and (2) a right granted to a Grantee to acquire Stock from the Company for cash.  
 (v)   Performance-Based Compensation  means any Award that is intended to constitute  performance-based compensation  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, in each case as amended from time to time.  
 (w)   Performance Goals  means performance goals based on one or more of the following criteria: (i) before-tax income or after-tax income, (ii) operating profit, (iii) return on equity, assets, capital or investment, (iv) earnings or book value per share, (v) sales or revenues, (vi) operating expenses, (vii) Stock price appreciation and (viii) implementation or completion of critical projects or processes. Where applicable, the Performance Goals may be expressed in terms of attaining a specified level of the particular criteria or the attainment of a percentage increase or decrease in the particular criteria, and may be applied to the Company or one or all of the Affiliates of the Company, or a division or strategic business unit of the Company, or may be applied to the performance of the Company relative to a market index, a group of other companies or a combination thereof, all as determined by the Committee. The Performance Goals may include a threshold level of performance below which no payment will be made (or no vesting will occur), levels of performance at which specified payments will be made (or specified vesting will occur), and a maximum level of performance above which no additional payment will be made (or at which full vesting will occur). To the extent possible, each of the foregoing Performance Goals shall be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and shall be subject to certification by the Committee;  provided ,  that , the Committee shall make such equitable adjustments as it determines to be appropriate to the Performance Goals in recognition of unusual or non-recurring events affecting the Company or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate or the financial statements of the Company or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate, in response to changes in applicable laws or regulations, or to account for items of gain, loss or expense determined to be extraordinary or unusual in nature or infrequent in occurrence or related to the disposal of a segment of a business or related to a change in accounting principles;  provided ,  further ,  that , any such adjustments made to Performance Goals applicable to Awards intended to constitute Performance-Based Compensation shall be made in a manner so as not to adversely affect the treatment of such Awards as Performance-Based Compensation.  
 (x)   Person  means a  person  as defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Company or any Affiliate thereof, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any Affiliate thereof, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of the Company.  
 (y)   Plan  means this BlackRock, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Award and Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.  
 (z)   Plan Year  means the fiscal year of the Company.  
 (aa)   Restricted Stock  means an Award of shares of Stock to a Grantee under Section 6(b)(iii) that may be subject to certain transferability and other restrictions and to a risk of forfeiture (including by reason of not satisfying certain Performance Goals).  

(bb)       Restricted Stock Unit      means a right granted to a Grantee under Section     6(b)(iv) to receive Stock or cash at the end of a specified deferral period, which right may be conditioned on the satisfaction of certain requirements (including the satisfaction of certain Performance Goals).    
 (cc)   Rule 16b-3  means Rule 16b-3, as from time to time in effect promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 16 of the Exchange Act, including any successor to such Rule.  
 (dd)   Stock  means shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company.  
 (ee)   Stock Appreciation Right  or  SAR  means the right, granted to a Grantee under Section 6(b)(ii), to be paid an amount measured by the appreciation in the Fair Market Value of Stock from the date of grant to the date of exercise of the right, with payment to be made in cash, Stock or property as specified in the Award Agreement or determined by the Committee.  
 (ff)   Subsidiary  means any corporation in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company if, at the time of granting of an Award, each of the corporations (other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain) owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in the chain.  
 (gg)   Substitute Award  means an Award designated as such and granted in connection with a transaction between the Company or an Affiliate and another entity or business in substitution or exchange for, or conversion, adjustment, assumption or replacement of, awards previously granted by such other entity to any individuals who have become Eligible Individuals as a result of such transaction or who were formerly employed by the acquired entity. An Award granted as inducement to joining the Company or an Affiliate in replacement of an award forfeited when leaving a previous employer to join the Company or an Affiliate shall not be considered a Substitute Award.  
 3.   Administration  .   
 (a)   Committee; Committee Powers .  
 (i)  The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have the authority in its discretion, subject to and not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan, to administer the Plan and to exercise all the powers and authorities either specifically granted to it under the Plan or necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, the authority to (A) grant Awards; (B) determine the persons to whom and the time or times at which Awards shall be granted; (C) determine the type and number of Awards to be granted, the number of shares of Stock to which an Award may relate and the terms, conditions, restrictions and Performance Goals relating to any Award; (D) determine Performance Goals that may be applicable to Awards; (E) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances an Award may be settled, cancelled, forfeited, exchanged, or surrendered; (F) make adjustments in the terms and conditions (including Performance Goals) applicable to Awards; (G) designate Affiliates; (H) construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and any Award; (I) prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; (J) determine the terms and provisions of the Award Agreements (which need not be identical for each Grantee); (K) make all other determinations it deems necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan and (L) correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the terms of the Plan or any Award Agreement in the manner and to the extent that it shall deem desirable. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, with respect to Grantees working outside the United States, the Committee may determine the terms and conditions of Awards and make such adjustments to the terms thereof as are necessary or advisable taking into account matters of local law or practice, including tax and securities laws of jurisdictions outside the United States.  
 (ii)  The Committee s determinations under the Plan need not be uniform and may be made by it selectively among Eligible Individuals (whether or not such Eligible Individuals are similarly-situated). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations, and to enter into non-uniform Award Agreements, as to the Eligible Individuals to receive Awards under the Plan and the terms and provisions of Awards under the Plan.  
 (iii)  All decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Committee shall be final and binding on all persons, including the Company, and any Affiliate or Grantee (or any person claiming any rights under the Plan from or through any Grantee) and any stockholder of the Company. No member of the Board or Committee shall be liable for any action taken or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award granted hereunder.  

(b)    Meetings; Procedures  . The Committee may appoint a chairperson and a secretary and may make such rules and regulations for the conduct of its business as it shall deem advisable, and shall keep minutes of its meetings. All determinations of the Committee shall be made by a majority of its members either present in person or participating by conference telephone at a meeting or by written consent. The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members or to one or more agents such administrative duties as it may deem advisable, and the Committee or any person to whom it has delegated duties as aforesaid may employ one or more persons to render advice with respect to any responsibility the Committee or such person may have under the Plan.    
 (c)   Limitations on Repricing / Cash Buyouts . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee shall not (other than as provided in Section 5(d) or Section 7) (i) reduce the exercise price of any Option or SAR previously granted under the Plan, whether through amendment, cancellation or replacement grant or other means or (ii) provide for the cash buyout of any outstanding Option or SAR with an exercise price that is greater than the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on the date of such cash buyout, unless, in either case, the Company s stockholders shall have approved such exercise price reduction or cash buyout.  
 4.   Eligibility  .   
 Except as provided below, Awards shall be granted to the Eligible Individuals selected by the Committee. In determining the Eligible Individuals to whom Awards shall be granted and the type of Award (including the number of shares of Stock to be covered by such Award), the Committee shall take into account such factors as the Committee shall deem relevant in connection with accomplishing the purposes of the Plan.  
 ISOs shall be granted only to Employees of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. No ISO shall be granted to any Employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries if such Employee owns, immediately prior to the grant of the ISO, stock representing more than 10% of the voting power or more than 10% of the value of all classes of stock of the Company or a Subsidiary, unless the purchase price for the stock under such ISO shall be at least 110% of its Fair Market Value at the time such ISO is granted and the ISO, by its terms, shall not be exercisable more than five years following the date it is granted. In determining the stock ownership under this paragraph, the provisions of Section 424(d) of the Code shall be controlling.  
 5.   Stock Subject to the Plan  .   
 (a)   Shares . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5(d), 34,500,000 shares of Stock shall be reserved for the grant or settlement of Awards under the Plan. Shares of Stock issued hereunder may, in whole or in part, be authorized but unissued shares or shares that shall have been or may be reacquired by the Company in the open market, in private transactions or otherwise.  
 (b)   Share Counting . If any shares of Stock subject to an Award are forfeited, cancelled, exchanged or surrendered or if an Award otherwise terminates, expires or is settled without a distribution of shares to the Grantee, the shares of Stock with respect to such Award shall, to the extent of any such forfeiture, cancellation, exchange, surrender, termination, settlement or expiration, again be available for Awards under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any and all shares of Stock that are (i) withheld or tendered in payment of an Option exercise price or (ii) withheld by the Company to satisfy any tax withholding obligation or (iii) covered by a SAR (to the extent that it is settled in shares of Stock, without regard to the number of shares of Stock that are actually issued to the Grantee upon exercise) shall not again be available for issuance under the Plan.  
 (c)   Maximum Individual Awards .  
 (i)   General . No more than 4,000,000 shares of Stock may be covered by stock-based Awards (including Options, SARs, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units and Other Stock-Based Awards) made to a single Eligible Individual during any Plan Year, which number shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5(d).  
 (ii)   Limits on Awards to Non-Employee Directors . Notwithstanding Section 5(c)(i), the aggregate maximum value of Awards granted under the Plan in any Plan Year to a Non-Employee Director in respect of services as a Non-Employee Director (including Awards made at the election of a Non-Employee Director in lieu of cash directors  fees) shall not exceed $2,000,000. The value of Awards for purposes of the preceding sentence shall be determined based on the aggregate grant date fair value computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 (or any successor thereto).  

(d)    Adjustments  .    
 (i)  In the event that the Committee shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Stock, or other property), recapitalization, Stock split, reverse split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination, reclassification, repurchase, or share exchange, or other similar corporate transaction or event (any such event, a  Change in Capitalization ) affects the Stock such that an adjustment is appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Grantees under the Plan, then the Committee shall make such equitable changes or adjustments as it deems necessary or appropriate to any or all of (i) the number and kind of shares of Stock or other property (including cash) that may thereafter be issued in connection with Awards, (ii) the number and kind of shares of Stock or other property (including cash) issued or issuable in respect of outstanding Awards, (iii) the exercise price, grant price, or purchase price relating to any Award, (iv) the Performance Goals and (v) the individual limitations applicable to Awards.  
 (ii)  Any adjustment made pursuant to Section 5(d)(i) in the Stock or other stock or securities (A) subject to outstanding ISOs (including any change in the exercise price) is intended to be made in a manner as not to constitute a modification as defined by Section 424(h)(3) of the Code and only to the extent otherwise permitted by Sections 422 and 424 of the Code, (B) subject to outstanding Awards that are intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation shall be made in such a manner as not to adversely affect the treatment of the Awards as Performance-Based Compensation and (C) with respect to any Award that is not subject to Section 409A of the Code, is intended to be made in a manner that would not subject the Award to Section 409A of the Code and, with respect to any Award that is subject to Section 409A of the Code, is intended to be made in a manner that complies with Section 409A of the Code and all regulations and other guidance issued thereunder.  
 (iii)  If, by reason of a Change in Capitalization, pursuant to an Award, a Grantee shall be entitled to, or shall be entitled to exercise an Option or SAR with respect to, new, additional or different shares of stock or securities of the Company or any other corporation, such new, additional or different shares shall thereupon be subject to all of the conditions, restrictions and performance criteria which were applicable to the Stock subject to the Award, prior to such Change in Capitalization.  
 (e)   Substitute Awards . Notwithstanding the foregoing, shares subject to a Substitute Award shall not count against any share limit set forth in this Section 5.  
 6.   Terms of Awards  .   
 (a)   General Terms of Awards . The term of each Award shall be for such period as may be determined by the Committee. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Award Agreement and applicable law, payments to be made by the Company or Affiliate upon the grant, maturation, settlement or exercise of an Award may be made in such forms as the Committee shall determine at the date of grant, including, without limitation, cash, Stock, or other property, and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis. The Committee may make rules relating to installment or deferred payments with respect to Awards, including the rate of interest, if any, to be credited with respect to such payments. In addition to the foregoing, the Committee may impose on any Award or the exercise thereof, at the date of grant or thereafter, such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan or applicable law, as the Committee shall determine.  
 (b)   Specific Terms of Awards . The Committee is authorized to grant to Eligible Individuals the following Awards, as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of such Awards at the date of grant.  
 (i)   Options . The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Eligible Individuals on the following terms and conditions:  
 (A)   Type of Award . The Award Agreement evidencing the grant of an Option under the Plan shall designate the Option as an ISO or an NQSO.  
   (B)   Exercise Price.  The exercise price per share of Stock purchasable under an Option shall be determined by the Committee;  provided ,  that , with respect to any Option that is not a Substitute Award, such exercise price shall be not less than the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on the date of grant. The Committee may provide, in the applicable Award Agreement or otherwise, for the method for payment of the exercise price, which may include, in the  

discretion of the Committee, payment: (1)     in cash, electronic funds transfer or check acceptable to the Committee, (2)     by an exchange of Stock previously owned by the Grantee for a period acceptable to the Committee and which Stock is otherwise acceptable to the Committee or Stock issuable to the Grantee pursuant to the Option, provided that the Committee may impose whatever restrictions it deems necessary or desirable with respect to such method of payment; (3)     through a broker-dealer facilitated cashless exercise procedure acceptable to the Committee or (4)     in any combination of any of the methods described in this Section     6(b)(i)(B).    
 (C)   Term and Exercisability of Options . Options shall be exercisable over the exercise period (which shall not exceed ten years from the date of grant), at such times and upon such conditions as the Committee may determine, in each case as reflected in the Award Agreement;  provided ,  that , subject to Section 6(c) and Section 7, the Committee shall have the authority to accelerate the exercisability of any outstanding Option at such time and under such circumstances as it, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate. An Option may be exercised to the extent of any or all full shares of Stock as to which the Option has become exercisable, by giving written notice of such exercise to the Committee or its designated agent in the form required by the Committee and otherwise in accordance with any procedures (including, without limitation, procedures restricting the frequency or method of exercise) as may be established by the Committee or its delegate from time to time.  
 (D)   Termination of Employment, etc . An Option may not be exercised unless the Grantee is then in the employ of or otherwise in a service provider relationship with the Company and its Subsidiaries (or a company or a parent or subsidiary company of such company issuing or assuming the Option in a transaction to which Section 424(a) of the Code applies) and unless the Grantee has remained continuously so employed, or continuously maintained such relationship, since the date of grant of the Option;  provided ,  that , the Award Agreement may contain provisions extending the exercisability of Options, in the event of specified terminations, to a date not later than the expiration date of such Option.  
 (E)   No Dividend Equivalents . In no event shall any Option granted under the Plan include any right to receive dividend equivalents with respect to such Option.  
 (F)   Other Provisions . Options may be subject to such other conditions including, but not limited to, restrictions on transferability of the shares acquired upon exercise of such Options, as the Committee may prescribe in its discretion or as may be required by applicable law.  
 (ii)   SARs . The Committee is authorized to grant SARs to Eligible Individuals on the following terms and conditions:  
 (A)   In General . A SAR may be granted on a standalone basis or in tandem with an Option. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, a SAR (1) granted in tandem with an NQSO may be granted at the time of grant of the related NQSO or at any time thereafter or (2) granted in tandem with an ISO may be granted only at the time of grant of the related ISO. A SAR granted in tandem with an Option shall be exercisable only to the extent the underlying Option is exercisable.  
 (B)   Settlement of SARs . With respect to each share subject thereto, a SAR shall confer on the Grantee a right to receive upon exercise an amount in cash or shares of Stock (at the sole discretion of the Committee) equal to the excess of (1) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on the date of exercise over (2) the per share exercise price of the SAR (which shall, in the case of (i) a SAR granted in tandem with an Option, be equal to the exercise price of the underlying Option and (ii) any other SAR (other than a Substitute Award), be not less than the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on the date of grant). The exercise of a SAR shall be effected pursuant to any procedures established by the Committee or its delegate and/or as set forth in the applicable Award Agreement.  
 (C)   No Dividend Equivalents . In no event shall any SAR granted under the Plan include any right to receive dividend equivalents with respect to such SAR.  
 (iii)   Restricted Stock . The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Stock to Eligible Individuals on the following terms and conditions:  
   (A)   Issuance and Restrictions . Restricted Stock shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability and other restrictions, if any, as the Committee may impose at the date of grant, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such circumstances, in such installments, or otherwise, as the  

Committee may determine. The Committee may place restrictions on Restricted Stock that shall lapse, in whole or in part, upon the attainment of Performance Goals. Except to the extent provided in the applicable Award Agreement, a Grantee granted Restricted Stock shall have all of the rights of a stockholder including, without limitation, the right to vote Restricted Stock and the right to receive dividends (in accordance with Section     6(b)(iii)(D)).    
 (B)   Forfeiture . Upon termination of employment or other service relationship with the Company or an Affiliate, during the applicable restriction period, Restricted Stock and any accrued but unpaid dividends that are at that time subject to restrictions shall be forfeited;  provided ,  that , subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee may (1) provide, by rule or regulation or in any Award Agreement, or may determine in any individual case, that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock will be waived or will not apply, in whole or in part, in the event of terminations resulting from specified causes and (2) in other cases waive in whole or in part the forfeiture of Restricted Stock.  
 (C)   Certificates for Stock . Restricted Stock granted under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall determine. If certificates representing Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Grantee, such certificates shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock, and the Company shall retain physical possession of the certificates.  
 (D)   Dividends . Cash dividends paid on Restricted Stock shall be deferred and paid to a Grantee only when, and to the extent that, the shares of underlying Restricted Stock vest. Stock dividends shall be subject to restrictions and a risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Restricted Stock with respect to which such Stock has been distributed.  
 (iv)   Restricted Stock Units . The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Stock Units to Grantees, subject to the following terms and conditions:  
 (A)   Award and Restrictions . Delivery of Stock or cash, as determined by the Committee, will occur upon expiration of the deferral period specified for Restricted Stock Units by the Committee or, if permitted by the Committee, upon expiration of such deferral period as may have been elected by the Grantee. The Committee may condition the vesting of and/or payment with respect to Restricted Stock Units, in whole or in part, upon the attainment of Performance Goals.  
 (B)   Forfeiture . Upon termination of employment or other service relationship with the Company or an Affiliate during the applicable deferral period or portion thereof to which forfeiture conditions apply, or upon failure to satisfy any other conditions precedent to the delivery of Stock or cash to which such Restricted Stock Units relate, all Restricted Stock Units that are then subject to deferral or restriction shall be forfeited;  provided ,  that , subject to the terms of the Plan, (1) the Committee may provide, by rule or regulation or in any Award Agreement, or may determine in any individual case, that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock Units will be waived in whole or in part in the event of termination resulting from specified causes and (2) the Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part the forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units.  
 (C)   Dividend Equivalents . If provided in the applicable Award Agreement, a holder of Restricted Stock Units shall be entitled to receive dividend equivalents with respect to such Restricted Stock Units,  provided ,  that , such dividend equivalents shall not be payable unless and until, and to the extent that, the underlying Restricted Stock Units vest and become payable.  
 (v)   Other Stock-Based Awards or Cash-Based Awards . The Committee is authorized to grant Awards to Eligible Individuals in the form of Other Stock-Based Awards or Cash-Based Awards, as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Awards granted pursuant to this paragraph may be granted with value and payment contingent upon the attainment of certain Performance Goals. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of such Awards at the date of grant. The maximum payment that any Grantee who is an executive officer of the Company may receive pursuant to a Cash-Based Award that is subject to the attainment of Performance Goals granted under this paragraph in any single Plan Year shall be $10,000,000. Subject to the terms of the Plan, payments earned hereunder may be decreased in the sole discretion of the Committee based on such factors as it deems appropriate.  
   (c)   Minimum Vesting . An Award granted under the Plan after the Effective Date shall not vest prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant of the Award. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may grant Awards that vest within one year following the date of grant (i) due to the Grantee s retirement, death, disability, leave of absence,  

termination of employment, or upon the sale or other disposition of a Grantee     s employer or any other similar event, as determined by the Committee, (ii)     as otherwise provided in Section     7 or (iii)     as a Substitute Award in replacement of an award scheduled to vest within one year following the date of grant of such Substitute Award. Notwithstanding the foregoing, up to 5% of the shares of Stock authorized for issuance under the Plan pursuant to Section     5(a) (as adjusted pursuant to Section     5(d)) may be granted as Awards that provide for vesting within one year following the date of grant.    
 7.   Change in Control  . Unless otherwise provided in a written agreement between the Grantee and the Company, or unless otherwise determined by the Committee and evidenced in an Award Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control:   
 (a)  With respect to each outstanding Award granted after the Effective Date that is assumed or substituted in connection with the Change in Control, in the event the Grantee s employment or service is terminated by the Company, its successor or an Affiliate thereof without Cause (as defined in an Award Agreement) on or after the effective date of the Change in Control but prior to twelve (12) months following the Change in Control, then:  
 (i)  any unvested or unexercisable portion of any Award carrying a right to exercise shall become fully vested and exercisable; and  
 (ii)  the restrictions, deferral limitations, payment conditions and forfeiture conditions applicable to an Award granted under the Plan shall lapse and such Awards shall be deemed fully vested and any performance conditions imposed with respect to such Awards shall be deemed to be achieved at target performance levels.  
 (b)  With respect to each outstanding Award granted after the Effective Date that is not assumed or substituted in connection with a Change in Control, immediately upon the occurrence of the Change of Control, (i) such Award shall become fully vested and, if applicable, exercisable, (ii) the restrictions, payment conditions, and forfeiture conditions applicable to any such Award granted shall lapse, and (iii) and any performance conditions imposed with respect to such Award shall be deemed to be achieved at target performance levels. Each award subject to Section 409A of the Code shall vest and shall be paid in accordance with its terms or as may be permitted earlier under Section 409A of the Code.  
 (c)  For purposes of this Section 7, an Award shall be considered assumed or substituted if, following the Change in Control, the Award is of substantially comparable value and remains subject to substantially the same terms and conditions that were applicable to the Award immediately prior to the Change in Control except that, if the Award related to shares of Stock, the Award instead confers the right to receive common stock of the acquiring or ultimate parent entity.  
 (d)  If the vesting of any Options and/or SARs is accelerated in connection with the Change in Control, the Committee shall have the discretion to provide that all Options and/or SARs outstanding immediately prior to such Change in Control shall expire on the effective date of such Change in Control.  
 8.   General Provisions  .   
 (a)   Nontransferability . Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, Awards shall not be transferable by a Grantee except by will or the laws of descent and distribution and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of a Grantee only by such Grantee or his guardian or legal representative.  
 (b)   Interpretation .  
 (i)   Section 16 Compliance . The Plan is intended to comply with Rule 16b-3 and the Committee shall interpret and administer the Plan or any Award Agreement in a manner consistent therewith. Any provision inconsistent with Rule 16b-3 shall be inoperative and shall not affect the validity of the Plan.  
   (ii)   Compliance with Section 409A . All Awards granted under the Plan are intended either not to be subject to Section 409A of the Code or, if subject to Section 409A of the Code, to be administered, operated and construed in compliance with Section 409A of the Code and all regulations and other guidance issued thereunder. Any payments described in the Plan that are due within the  short-term deferral period  as defined in Section 409A of the Code shall not be treated as deferred compensation unless applicable law requires otherwise. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, no payment or distribution under this Plan or any other plan or agreement of the Company or any of  

its Affiliates that constitutes an item of deferred compensation under Section     409A of the Code and becomes payable by reason of a Grantee     s termination of employment or service with the Company will be made to such Grantee until such Grantee     s termination of employment or service constitutes a      separation from service      (as defined in Section     409A of the Code). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or any other plan or agreement of the Company or any of its Affiliates, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section     409A of the Code, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided during the six (6)     month period immediately following the Grantee     s termination of employment shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six (6)     months following the Grantee     s separation from service (or upon the Grantee     s death, if earlier). In addition, for purposes of the Plan, each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided to the Grantee pursuant to the Plan, which constitutes deferred compensation subject to Section     409A of the Code, shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section     409A of the Code. The Company makes no representation that any or all of the payments or benefits described in this Plan will be exempt from or comply with Section     409A of the Code and makes no undertaking to preclude Section     409A of the Code from applying to any such payment. The Grantee shall be solely responsible for the payment of any taxes and penalties incurred under Section     409A.    
 (iii)   Compliance With Section 162(m) . The Committee may make Awards of Performance-Based Compensation hereunder. The exercisability and/or payment of such Performance-Based Compensation may, to the extent required to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, be subject to the achievement of performance criteria based upon one or more Performance Goals and to certification of such achievement in writing by the Committee. The Committee may in its discretion reduce the amount of such Performance-Based Compensation that would otherwise become exercisable and/or payable upon achievement of such Performance Goals and the certification in writing of such achievement, but may not increase such amounts. Any such Performance Goals, to the extent required to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, shall be established in writing by the Committee not later than the time period prescribed under Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations thereunder. Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Plan to contrary, all provisions of such Awards which are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be construed in a manner to so comply.  
 (c)   Forfeiture Events; Clawback . In addition to any forfeiture provisions otherwise applicable to an Award, a Grantee s right to any payment or benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, clawback or recoupment (i) in accordance with any clawback, recoupment or similar policy of the Company as in effect from time to time or (ii) as required by applicable law.  
 (d)   No Right to Continued Employment . Nothing in the Plan or in any Award granted under the Plan or in any Award Agreement or other agreement entered into pursuant hereto shall confer upon any Grantee the right to continue in the employ of or other service provider to the Company or any Affiliate or to be entitled to any remuneration or benefits not set forth in the Plan or such Award Agreement or other agreement or to interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any such Affiliate to terminate such Grantee s employment or other service provider relationship.  
 (e)   Withholding and Other Taxes . The Company or any applicable Affiliate is authorized to withhold from any Award granted, any payment relating to an Award under the Plan (including from a distribution of Stock) or any other payment to a Grantee, amounts of withholding and other taxes due in connection with any transaction involving an Award, and to take such other action as the Committee may deem advisable to enable the Company and Grantees to satisfy obligations for the payment of withholding taxes and other tax obligations relating to any Award. This authority shall include authority to withhold or receive Stock or other property and to make cash payments in respect thereof in satisfaction of a Grantee s tax obligations. If Stock is withheld to satisfy withholding and other taxes due in connection with an exercise of an Option, the Company shall not withhold more Stock than is necessary to satisfy the minimum withholding obligation in respect of such exercise.  
 (f)   Amendment and Termination . The Board may at any time and from time to time alter, amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan in whole or in part. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) no amendment shall affect adversely any of the rights of any Grantee, without such Grantee s consent, under any Award theretofore granted under the Plan and (ii) any amendment shall be approved by stockholders, unless otherwise determined by the Board, if necessary to comply with state law, stock listing requirements or other applicable law. Unless earlier terminated by the Board pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, the Plan shall terminate on the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date. No Awards shall be granted under the Plan after such termination date.  
   (g)   No Rights to Awards; No Stockholder Rights . No Grantee or Eligible Individual shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Grantees. Except as provided  

specifically herein, a Grantee or a transferee of an Award shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by the Award until the date as of which the Grantee is identified as a stockholder on the books and records of the Company with respect to such shares.    
 (h)   Unfunded Status of Awards . The Plan is intended to constitute an  unfunded  plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Grantee pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award shall give any such Grantee any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company.  
 (i)   No Fractional Shares . No fractional shares of Stock shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, other Awards, or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of such fractional shares or whether such fractional shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.  
 (j)   Regulations and Other Approvals .  
 (i)  The obligation of the Company to sell or deliver Stock with respect to any Award granted under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including all applicable federal and state securities laws, and the obtaining of all such approvals by governmental agencies as may be deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee.  
 (ii)  Each Award is subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Committee determines, in its absolute discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of Stock issuable pursuant to the Plan is required by any securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the grant of an Award or the issuance of Stock, no such Award shall be granted or payment made or Stock issued, in whole or in part, unless listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval has been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.  
 (iii)  In the event that the disposition of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the Plan is not covered by a then current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  Securities Act ), and is not otherwise exempt from such registration, such Stock shall be restricted against transfer to the extent required by the Securities Act or regulations thereunder, and the Committee may require a Grantee receiving Stock pursuant to the Plan, as a condition precedent to receipt of such Stock, to represent to the Company in writing that the Stock acquired by such Grantee is acquired for investment only and not with a view to distribution.  
 (k)   Governing Law . The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof.  

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.9>
 3
 blk-ex109_836.htm
 AMENDED AND RESTATED BLACKROCK, INC. VOLUNTARY DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

blk-ex109_836.htm

Exhibit 10.9  
 AS ADOPTED 
 AMENDED AND RESTATED 
 BLACKROCK, INC.  
 VOLUNTARY DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
 as amended and restated as of November 16, 2015 
 The Amended and Restated BlackRock, Inc. Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan is intended to provide deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees as described in Section 201(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (  ERISA  ). The Plan is a continuation, and amendment and restatement, of the BlackRock, Inc. Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended. 
  Article I.  
  Definitions  
  1.1          Affiliate    has the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act.  
  1.2          Board    means the Board of Directors of the Company.  
  1.3          Bonus    means that portion of the discretionary annual performance bonus in respect of a Plan Year that is (i) payable by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company to a Participant in cash, (ii) not subject to deferral under a mandatory deferral program and (iii) paid at the time that the Company pays annual bonuses to employees with respect to such Plan Year generally.   
  1.4          Change of Control    shall be deemed to occur if (i) due to a transfer of Voting Stock, a Person other than PNC or its Affiliates holds a majority of the voting power of the Voting Stock, or (ii) whether by virtue of an actual or threatened proxy contest (including a consent solicitation) or any merger, reorganization, consolidation or similar transaction, Persons who are directors of the Company immediately prior to such proxy contest or the execution of the agreement pursuant to which such transaction is consummated (other than a director whose initial assumption of office was in connection with a prior actual or threatened proxy contest) cease to constitute a majority of the Board or any successor entity immediately following such proxy contest or the consummation of such transaction, provided, however, that the occurrence of an event described in (i) or (ii) above shall not constitute a Change of Control unless it constitutes a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company, within the meaning of Section 409A.  
  1.5          Code    means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may from time to time be amended or supplemented.  
  1.6          Company    means BlackRock, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware, or any successor corporation.  
  1.7          Compensation    means the salary, Bonus and commissions (but, for the avoidance of doubt, excluding the grant, vesting or settlement of equity-based compensation) payable to an Eligible Employee by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company and/or such components of compensation as the Plan Manager may determine in the Plan Manager s discretion.  

1.8          Deferral Amount    means the portion of a Participant s Bonus elected by the Participant to be deferred in a Plan Year in accordance with Article III.   
  1.9          Deferral Election    means a Participant s timely election pursuant to Article III which sets forth a Deferral Amount, a Deferral Period and a Distribution Method.  
  1.10          Deferred Compensation Account    means the bookkeeping entry account maintained by the Company for each Participant that reflects Deferral Amounts and adjustments (including gains and losses) thereto.  
  1.11          Deferral Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.  
  1.12          Distribution Method    has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2.  
  1.13          Eligible Employee    means, with respect to a Plan Year, an employee of an  Employer who has a corporate title of Director or above and who: (i) is eligible to receive a Bonus; (ii) is employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company on the date the entire Bonus would otherwise have been paid but for the deferral; and (iii) has annual Compensation (determined in accordance with procedures developed by the Plan Manager) in excess of (A) $375,000 or (B) the compensation threshold approved by the Plan Manager with respect to such Plan Year.     
  1.14          Employer    means the Company or any Affiliate of the Company based in the United States that employs the Participant.  
  1.15          ERISA    has the meaning set forth in the preamble.  
  1.16          Exchange Act    means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.  
  1.17          Grandfathered Amounts    means the Deferral Amounts that were accrued and vested as of December 31, 2004 (including earnings thereon).  The terms and conditions applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are set forth on Appendix A hereto.    
  1.18        Investment Company Act    means the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended from time to time.  
  1.19          Investment Funds    means the tracking investments that are from time to time offered under the Plan, as chosen in the sole discretion of the Company.  
  1.20          Knowledgeable Employee    has the meaning set forth in Rule 3c-5 under the Investment Company Act.  
  1.21          MDCC    means the Management Development   Compensation Committee of the Board, or any successor committee.  
  1.22          Participant    means an Eligible Employee who has elected to participate in the Plan in accordance with Article II.    
  1.23          Payment Commencement Date    means, with respect to any Deferral Amount, a date that is within 60 days following the end of the Deferral Period.   
  1.24          Person    means any individual, partnership, limited partnership, corporation, trust, estate, association, limited liability company, private foundation or other entity.  

1.25          Plan    means this Amended and Restated BlackRock, Inc. Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan.   
  1.26          Plan Manager    means the Company s most senior global Human Resources professional.   
  1.27          Plan Year    means, with respect to a Bonus (or portion thereof) that is deferred under the Plan, the calendar year to which such Bonus (or portion thereof) relates.  
  1.28          PNC    means The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation, or any successor thereto.  
  1.29          Qualified Purchaser    shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Investment Company Act.  
  1.30          Section 409A    means Code Section 409A and the regulations and interpretive guidance issued thereunder.  
  1.31          Separation from Service    means a Participant's  separation from service  with the Company in accordance with Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(h).  
  1.32          Specified Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.  
  1.33          Subsequent Election    has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3.  
  1.34          Unforeseeable Emergency    has meaning set forth in Section 409A.  
  1.35          Valuation Date    means the last business day of each month, or such other date specified by the Plan Manager.  
  1.36          Voting Stock    means the then-outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company entitled to vote generally on the election of directors and shall exclude any class or series of capital stock of the Company only entitled to vote in the event of dividend arrearages or any default under any provision of such class or series whether or not at the time of determination there are any such dividend arrearages or defaults.  
  Article II.  
  Participation  
  2.1       Eligibility to Participate  . Eligibility under the Plan is limited to Eligible Employees. An Eligible Employee shall become a Participant in the Plan upon making a Deferral Election that has become irrevocable in accordance with Section 3.1.  
  2.2       Cessation of Participation.   A Participant shall cease to be a Participant upon the final distribution of all amounts credited to the Participant s Deferred Compensation Account.  
  Article III.  
  Deferral Elections  
  3.1       Deferral Election  . An Eligible Employee may elect to defer, in one percent (1%) increments, between one percent (1%) and one hundred percent (100%) of his or her Bonus for a Plan Year. Each Deferral Election shall be made on a deferral election form to be provided by the Plan Manager and shall specify (i) the Deferral Amount; (ii) the Deferral Period and (iii) the Distribution Method. With respect to any particular Deferral   

Election for any Plan Year commencing on or after January 1, 2016, the    Deferral Period    shall mean the period commencing on the date on which the Bonus would have otherwise been paid and ending, at the election of the Participant (including pursuant to any Subsequent Election under Section 3.3), on (A) the date specified by the Participant in his or her deferral election form (a    Specified Date   ) or (B) the earlier of either the date of the Participant s Separation from Service or a Specified Date. Any Specified Date shall, except as may be provided by the Plan Manager, be no later than 10 years following the commencement of the Deferral Period and may be limited to the dates made available by the Plan Manager in the deferral election form. A new deferral election form shall be filed by the Participant for a Deferral Election for each Plan Year. A Deferral Election shall be irrevocable once the deadline set by the Plan Manager for filing such election has elapsed.   
  3.2       Timing of Deferral Elections  . Deferral Elections shall made no later than December 31   (or such earlier date as determined by the Plan Manager in the Plan Manager s discretion) of the calendar year preceding the applicable Plan Year.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, in the discretion of the Plan Manager, a Bonus to a Participant constitutes  performance-based compensation  within the meaning of Section 409A, the Plan Manager may permit such Participant to make a Deferral Election no later than June 30 of the Plan Year relating to such Bonus.   
  3.3       Subsequent Deferral Elections  . With respect to a Deferral Election, after an initial election has been made in accordance with Section 3.1, to the extent permitted by the Plan Manager, a Participant may make a subsequent election to change (i) the Specified Date and/or (ii) the Distribution Method applicable to a Specified Date by providing written notice in the form required by the Plan Manager (a    Subsequent Election   ).  A Subsequent Election shall be made only if (i) the Subsequent Election does not take effect for at least twelve (12) months following the date of the Subsequent Election, (ii) each payment which is subject to the Subsequent Election is deferred for a period of at least five (5) years from the date such payment would otherwise have been made pursuant to the previous election then in effect (except if the election relates to a payment on account of death or an unforeseeable emergency), and (iii) the Subsequent Election is made no fewer than twelve (12) months prior to the date on which the such payment was scheduled to be made pursuant to the previous election then in effect. No Subsequent Election shall, except as may be provided by the Plan Manager, result in a Deferral Period that is greater than 10 years.  The Plan Manager may from time to time, in the Plan Manager s discretion, permit Participants who would otherwise receive a distribution upon a Separation from Service to make a Subsequent Election with respect to such distributions in accordance with procedures developed by the Plan Manager.  
  Article IV.  
  Deferral Accounts  
  4.1       Deferral Account  . A Deferred Compensation Account shall be established on the books and records of the Company in the name of each Participant reflecting, as an unfunded liability of the Employer, the amount deferred pursuant to Article III increased by any earnings and decreased by any losses thereon. Amounts attributable to each Deferral Election shall be accounted for separately in a Participant s Deferred Compensation Account. Participants shall be fully vested in their Deferred Compensation Account balance at all times.   
  4.2       Allocation of Deferral Amounts  . A Participant s Deferral Amount shall be credited to his or her Deferred Compensation Account as soon as practicable after the Participant is paid the Bonus for the applicable Plan Year (or, if the entire Bonus is deferred, at the time such Bonus would otherwise have been paid).  
  4.3       Adjustments to Deferred Compensation Account Balances  . As of each Valuation Date, a Participant s Deferred Compensation Account shall consist of the balance of the Participant's Deferred Compensation   

Account as of the immediately preceding Valuation Date, adjusted to reflect (i) any additional Deferral Amounts, (ii) distributions (if any), and (iii) increases or decreases in the value of the Investment Funds selected by the Participant as tracking investments. All adjustments and earnings related thereto will be determined on a monthly basis in accordance with the Valuation Date or on such other basis as may be specified by the Plan Manager from time to time.   
  Article V.  
  Tracking Investments  
  5.1       Investment Election  . A Participant shall specify that all, or any whole percentage, of his or her Deferral Amount for the applicable Plan Year shall be designated to one or more of the Investment Funds. The available Investment Funds and any requirements applicable to a particular Investment Fund (such as, without limitation, any minimum investment amounts or percentages) shall be determined by the Plan Manager in the Plan Manager s discretion from time to time. The Company or an Affiliate of the Company may make a corresponding investment in the actual Investment Fund, but shall not be obligated to do so.  
  5.2       Restricted Investment Funds  . The Plan Manager may prevent a Participant from directing an investment to an Investment Fund in order to comply with applicable securities laws if the Participant is not a Qualified Purchaser, Knowledgeable Employee or otherwise permitted to direct an investment to an Investment Fund under the Plan.    
  5.3       Plan Manager Discretion  . The Plan Manager shall have the sole discretion to determine the Investment Funds available under the Plan and may change, limit or eliminate an Investment Fund provided hereunder from time to time. If any Investment Fund ceases to be available under the Plan (whether in whole or in part), or if a Participant fails to make a valid election to invest in an Investment Fund, the Plan Manager shall have the authority to credit any allocation to such Investment Fund (or non-allocation, as the case may be) (along with deemed earnings, gains, losses, expenses or charges thereto) to any other then-available Investment Fund. The Plan Manager may disregard the deemed investment instructions of a Participant.    
  5.4       Investment Reallocation  . To the extent a Participant wishes to change the manner in which his or her Deferred Compensation Account is directed into or out of an Investment Fund, such transfer shall only be effected as of the next available distribution or contribution date, as the case may be, of the applicable Investment Fund. Any amount directed to an Investment Fund prior to such fund's next contribution date shall, until such contribution date, be directed to in the Investment Fund which provides the lowest risk of loss of capital, as determined in the sole discretion of the Plan Manager.  

Article VI.  
  Distributions  
  6.1       Distributions Upon End of Deferral Period  . With respect to a Deferral Election, payment of a Participant s Deferred Compensation Account attributable to such Deferral Election shall be made or commence to be paid on the Payment Commencement Date in the manner set forth in this Article VI.  
  6.2       Distribution Method  . Distribution of a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account or any portion thereof shall be made in accordance with the Distribution Method elected by the Participant in the applicable Deferral Election. For purposes of the Plan,    Distribution Method    means, with respect to payment of amounts credited to a Participant s Deferred Compensation Account pursuant to a Deferral Election, either (i) a lump sum payment on the Payment Commencement Date or (ii) a number of annual installments (not exceeding 10) specified by the Participant in his or her Deferral Election, with (A) the first installment to be paid on the Payment Commencement Date and (B) installments subsequent to the first installment to be paid in the applicable calendar month each year thereafter;   provided  ,   that  , unless the Plan Manager otherwise permits in the deferral election form for a particular Plan Year, distributions upon a Participant s Separation from Service shall be in the form of a lump sum only.  
  6.3       Amount of Distribution  .   
  (a)      Lump Sum Payment  . If a Participant elects a lump sum payment with respect to a Deferral Election, such payment shall consist of cash equal to the value, as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding distribution, of that portion of the Participant s Deferred Compensation Account balance that is attributable to such Deferral Election.   
   
  (b)      Installment Payments  . If a Participant elects installments with respect to a Deferral Election, the amount payable under each such installment shall be a cash payment equal to the value, as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the installment payment, of that portion of the Participant s Deferred Compensation Account balance that is attributable to such Deferral Election, divided by the number of remaining installment payments to be made (including the installment then being made).   
  6.4       Separation from Service  . Except as may otherwise be provided in Section 11.8 or as may be permitted by the Plan Manager pursuant to Section 3.3, notwithstanding any provision in the Plan or any Deferral Election made by a Participant to the contrary, upon a Participant's Separation from Service, the portion of a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account relating to Deferral Amounts for Plan Years prior the 2016 Plan Year shall be distributed in a cash lump sum to such Participant within 60 days following such Separation from Service.  
  6.5       Distribution due to Unforeseeable Emergency  . In the event the Plan Manager, upon written request of a Participant, determines in the Plan Manager s sole discretion that the Participant has suffered an Unforeseeable Emergency, the Plan Manager may pay to a Participant as soon as practicable following such determination, an amount from a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account that shall not exceed the minimum amount necessary to satisfy the emergency plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution, after taking into account the extent that such hardship is or maybe relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise or by liquidation of the Participant s assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship).  A Participant who receives a distribution pursuant to this Section 6.5 shall be ineligible to make any additional deferrals under the Plan for the balance of the Plan Year in which the distribution occurs and for the immediately following Plan Year.  

6.6       Small Account Distributions  . Notwithstanding   any Distribution Method elected by the Participant, if, as of the Participant s   Separation from Service  , the value of amounts in the Participant s Deferred Compensation Account, including Grandfathered Amounts (determined as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding such date), is less than the applicable dollar amount under Code Section 402(g)(1)(B), the entire balance in the Participant s Deferred Compensation Account shall be distributed as soon as practicable and in accordance with Section 409A to the Participant (or if the Participant is deceased, the Participant s beneficiary) as a lump sum payment, provided that, a distribution pursuant to this Section 6.6 shall be made only if such distribution results in the termination and liquidation of the entirety of the Participant's interests under the Plan, and all agreements, methods, programs or other arrangements with respect to which deferrals are treated as having been deferred under a single nonqualified deferred compensation plan under Section 409A.           
  6.7       Accelerated Payment in the Event of Death  . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any Deferral Election, in the event a Participant dies prior to receiving distribution of his or her entire Deferred Compensation Account balance, any unpaid amount in the Participant s Deferred Compensation Account shall be paid to the Participant s beneficiary within 90 days following the date of the Participant s death.    
  6.8       Change of Control  . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any Deferral Election, upon a Change of Control, all Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be paid to Participants in a lump sum within 30 days following the date of the Change in Control.  
  6.9       Code Section 162(m  ). Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or a Deferral Election to the contrary, in the event that distribution of any Deferral Amount to a Participant would not be deductible by the Company by operation of Code Section 162(m), such amount shall, subject to the Participant s consent, not be distributed to the Participant until the earlier of (i) the first tax year of the Company in which Code Section 162(m) would not prohibit a deduction if such amount were paid or (ii) during the period beginning with the date of the Participant s Separation from Service and ending on the later of the last day of the taxable year of the Company in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs or the 15th day of the third month following the Participant s Separation from Service. The additional deferral provided in this Section 6.9 shall apply only to the extent such deferral complies, in all respects, with the requirements of Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-2(b)(7).  
  Article VII.  
  Beneficiary Designation  
  7.1       Beneficiary Designation  . Each Participant shall have the right, in accordance with any procedures adopted by the Plan Manager from time to time, to designate any person or persons as beneficiary or beneficiaries (both principal as well as contingent) to whom payment of the balance of the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account shall be made in the event of the Participant's death. In the event of multiple beneficiaries, such payment shall be apportioned among the beneficiaries in accordance with the designation forms, or if applicable, as determined pursuant to Section 7.2. A beneficiary designation may be changed by a Participant by filing such change on a form prescribed by the Plan Manager. The receipt of a new beneficiary designation form will cancel all previously filed beneficiary designations.  
  7.2       Failure to Designate  . If a Participant fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated beneficiaries predecease the Participant, then the Participant s designated beneficiary shall be deemed to be the persons surviving him in the first of the following classes in which there is a survivor on a per capita basis: (i) the surviving spouse; (ii) the Participant's children, except that if any of the children predecease the Participant but leave issue surviving, then such issue shall take by right of representation the share their parent would have taken if living; and (iii) the Participant s personal representative (executor or administrator).  

Article VIII.  
  Administration  
  Subject to oversight by the MDCC, the Plan Manager shall have the authority to administer the Plan and to make and adopt rules and procedures relating to the operation of the Plan, to the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan or the Code, including, without limitation, the authority to construe and interpret the Plan and any Plan related documentation; to determine all questions arising in connection with the Plan; to correct any defect, supply any omissions or reconcile any inconsistency in the administration of the Plan, to determine the terms and provisions of deferral election forms; and to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The Plan Manager shall have the authority to delegate to his or her designees on such terms and conditions as he or she deems appropriate for purposes of performing any of the Plan Manager s responsibilities and obligations hereunder (including, without limitation, the distribution and collection of deferral election forms and the establishment of bookkeeping accounts). The Plan Manager s interpretations and decisions with respect to the Plan (including, without limitation, any interpretation or decision relating to a provision of the Plan) shall, subject to the foregoing, be final and conclusive.   
  Article IX.  
  Claims Appeal Procedure  
  9.1       The Participant may make a claim under this Plan in writing to the Plan Manager. The Plan Manager shall make all determinations concerning such claim. Any decision by the Plan Manager denying such claim shall be in writing and shall be delivered to the Participant, or if applicable, anyone who makes a claim in respect of the Participant. Such decision shall set forth the specific reasons for denial in plain language. Pertinent provisions of the Plan shall be cited and, where appropriate, an explanation as to how the claimant can perfect the claim will be provided, including a description of any additional material or information needed to perfect the claim. The notice of benefit denial shall also provide a description of the Plan's review procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse determination on review.  This notice of denial of benefits will be provided within 90 days of the Plan Manager s receipt of the claimant's claim for benefits, unless the Plan Manager determines that special circumstances require an extension of up to 90 additional days to process the claim, in which case the Plan Manager will notify the claimant of the extension prior to the expiration of the initial 90-day period and the special circumstances that warrant the extension. If the Plan Manager fails to notify the claimant of the Plan Manager s decision regarding the claim, the claim shall be considered denied, and the claimant shall then be permitted to proceed with the appeal as provided in Section 9.2.  
  9.2       A claimant who has been completely or partially denied a benefit shall be entitled to appeal this denial of his/her claim by filing a written statement of his/her position with the Plan Manager no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of the written notification of such claim denial. The Plan Manager shall schedule an opportunity for a full and fair review of the issue within thirty (30) days of receipt of the appeal. During such review, the Plan Manager shall provide claimants the opportunity to submit written comments, documents, records or other information related to the claim for benefits.  The Plan manager will provide claimants, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits.  The decision on review shall set forth specific reasons for the decision, and shall cite specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based. Following the review of any additional information submitted by the claimant, either through the hearing   

process or otherwise, the Plan Manager shall render a decision on the review of the denied claim. The Plan Manager shall make a decision regarding the merits of the denied claim within sixty (60) days following receipt of the request for review (or within one hundred twenty (120) days after such receipt, in a case where there are special circumstances requiring extension of time for reviewing the appealed claim).  The Plan Manager shall deliver the decision to the claimant in writing. If an extension of time for reviewing the appealed claim is required because of special circumstances, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the commencement of the extension. If the decision on review is not furnished within the prescribed time, the claim shall be deemed denied on review. The decision on review shall set forth specific reasons for the decision, and shall cite specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based.   
  9.3          Liability Indemnification  . Neither the Plan Manager nor any member of the Board or the MDCC shall be liable for any action taken or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan. The Plan Manager and the members of the Board and the MDCC and their agents shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any and all loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or incurred by them in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which they may be a party or in which they may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under this Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by them in settlement (with the Company s written approval) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment in any action suit, or proceeding. The foregoing shall not be applicable to any person if the loss, cost, liability or expense is due to such person s gross negligence or willful misconduct.   
  Article X.  
  Amendment and Termination of Plan  
 The MDCC may at any time amend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part;  provided ,  however , that no amendment or termination may act to reduce a Participant s Deferred Compensation Account at the time of such amendment or termination. 
  Article XI.  
  Miscellaneous  
  11.1       Unsecured General Creditor  . Participants and their beneficiaries shall have no legal or equitable rights, interest or claims in any property or assets of the Company, any Affiliate of the Company or any Investment Fund.  The obligation under the Plan to a Participant shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of his or her Employer to pay money to the Participant in the future.  The Company shall be jointly and severally liable for the obligation of Employers in respect of obligations owed to Participants and beneficiaries hereunder. The Company may establish a trust for the benefit of Participants hereunder or otherwise segregate, identify or reserve assets for the purpose of paying benefits hereunder;   provided  ,   however  , that assets segregated, identified or reserved for the purpose of paying benefits pursuant to the Plan shall remain general corporate assets subject to the claims of creditors of the Company and any Employer for whom a Participant provides services or, in the case of assets held in a trust established by the Company, subject to the claims of general creditors to the extent provided in such trust.  
  11.2       Nonassignability  . Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and nontransferable. No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or   

separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant s or any other person s bankruptcy or insolvency.   
  11.3       Not a Contract of Service  . The terms and conditions of this Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract of service between a Participant and the Company or any Affiliate of the Company.  Except as may otherwise be specifically provided herein, neither a Participant nor any beneficiary shall have rights against the Company or any Affiliate of the Company.  Moreover, nothing in this Plan shall be deemed to give a Participant the right to be retained in the service or employment of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company.  
  11.4       Offset  . Amounts due to or in respect of Participants under the Plan shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without limitation, any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Company or any Affiliate of the Company may have against a Participant or others.  
  11.5       Incapacity  . In the event benefits become payable under the Plan after a Participant becomes incapacitated, such benefits shall be paid to the Participant s legal guardian or legal representative.   
  11.6       Withholding  .  The Company, or as applicable, an Affiliate of the Company, shall have the power to withhold an amount sufficient to satisfy all federal, state, local or foreign withholding requirements in respect of any payment or credit made under the Plan. In addition, the Plan Manager may require a Participant to satisfy employment taxes applicable to credits made under the Plan in such other method as the Plan Manager may reasonably require.  
  11.7       Severability  . If any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions hereof; rather, each pro vision shall be fully severable and the Plan shall be construed and enforced   
  11.8       Section 409A  .  All amounts payable under the Plan are intended to be administered, operated and construed in compliance with Section 409A.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, a Deferral Election or any other plan or agreement of the Company or any of its Affiliates, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided during the six (6) month period immediately following the Grantee s Separation from Service shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six (6) months following the Grantee s Separation from Service (or upon the Grantee s death, if earlier). In addition, for purposes of the Plan, each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided to the Grantee pursuant to the Plan, which constitutes deferred compensation subject to Section 409A, shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A. The Company makes no representation that any or all of the payments or benefits described in this Plan will be exempt from or comply with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to any such payment. A Participant shall be solely responsible for the payment of any taxes and penalties incurred under Section 409A.  
  11.9       Governing Law  . The Plan, and any Participation Agreement related thereto, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to the conflict of law principles thereof.   

AMENDED AND RESTATED   
  BLACKROCK, INC. VOLUNTARY DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN  
  APPENDIX A  
  The rules contained in this appendix (this "  Appendix  ") shall apply to the portion of a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account that consists of Grandfathered Amounts (as defined in the Plan). The provisions of the Plan, to which this Appendix is attached, are hereby incorporated by reference; however, to the extent any of the terms or provisions of this Appendix are inconsistent with the Plan, this Appendix shall govern. Terms used herein without definitions shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.  
  1.    Termination of Employment  .  Except as may be elected by a Participant pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Plan, upon a Participant's termination of employment or service with his or her Employer for any reason, the Plan Manager shall, as soon as is practicable, distribute the Grandfathered Amounts in a cash lump sum to such Participant, or in the event of the Participant's death, to the Participant's beneficiary or beneficiaries.  
  2.    Hardship Withdrawal  .  In the event the Plan Manager, upon written request of a Participant, determines in the Plan Manager s sole discretion that the Participant has suffered an unforeseeable financial emergency, the Plan Manager may pay all or a portion of the Grandfathered Amounts to a Participant as soon as practicable following such determination, provided that the amount paid shall not exceed the minimum amount necessary to satisfy the emergency. For purposes of this Section 2, an unforeseeable financial emergency is an unanticipated emergency that is caused by an event beyond the control of the Participant as may result from illness, casualty loss or sudden financial reversal and that would result in severe financial hardship to the individual if the emergency distribution were not permitted. Financial needs arising from foreseeable events, such as the purchase of a residence or education expenses for children, shall not be considered a financial emergency. A Participant who receives a hardship distribution pursuant to this Section 2 shall be ineligible to make any additional deferrals under the Plan for the balance of the Plan Year in which the hardship distribution occurs and for the immediately following Plan Year.  
  3.    Penalized Withdrawals  . Whether or not a Participant is eligible for a hardship withdrawal (in accordance with Section 2 above), a Participant may request payment of all or a portion of the Participant s Grandfathered Amounts.  Any payment made pursuant to such a request shall be subject to a penalty equal to ten percent (10%) of the payment, which penalty shall be deducted from the payment and forfeited. A Participant who receives a distribution pursuant to this Section 3 shall be ineligible to make any additional deferrals under the Plan for the balance of the Plan Year in which the distribution occurs and for the immediately following Plan Year.  
  4.    Small Account Balances  . Notwithstanding any distribution method elected by a Participant, the Plan Manager may, in the Plan Manager s sole discretion, elect to pay in a lump sum the Grandfathered Amounts with a balance of less than $5,000.  
  5.    Change of Control  .  If there is a Change of Control of the Company (whether or not such Change of Control constitutes a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company, within the meaning of Section 409A), then no additional benefits shall accrue with respect to the Grandfathered Amounts, unless the successor or acquiring corporation shall elect to continue the Plan with respect to the Grandfathered Amounts.  The Grandfathered Amounts which had accrued up to the date of the Change of Control shall be paid as scheduled unless the successor or acquiring corporation elects to accelerate payment.  

</EX-10.9>

<EX-12.1>
 4
 blk-ex121_35.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

blk-ex121_35.htm

Exhibit 12.1  
 RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES  
 (unaudited)  

(1)   
 
 Amount includes redeemable and nonredeemable noncontrolling interests.     

(2)   
 
 Interest expense on uncertain tax positions has been recorded within income tax expense on the consolidated statements of income.     

(3)   
 
 The portion of rent representative of interest is calculated as one third of the total rent expense.     

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 5
 blk-ex211_36.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT

blk-ex211_36.htm

Exhibit 21.1  
 SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT  
 The following table lists the direct and indirect subsidiaries of BlackRock, Inc. as of December 31, 2015*.  

Name of Subsidiary 

Jurisdiction/State of Incorporation    

52 nd  Street Capital Advisors. LLC  
 
 Delaware  

Acero C.V.   
 
 Netherlands  

Acero Co peratif U.A.  
 
 Netherlands  

Acero Dutch Holdco II, LLC   
 
 Delaware  

Acero Dutch Holdco, LLC   
 
 Delaware  

Acero Holdings I B.V.   
 
 Netherlands  

Acero Holdings II, BV   
 
 Netherlands   

BAA Holdings, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock (Channel Islands) Limited  
 
 Jersey  

BlackRock (Hong Kong) Limited  
 
 Hong Kong  

BlackRock (Isle of Man) Holdings Limited  
 
 Isle of Man  

BlackRock (Isle of Man) Limited  
 
 Isle of Man  

BlackRock (Luxembourg) S.A.  
 
 Luxembourg  

BlackRock (Netherlands) B.V.  
 
 Netherlands  

BlackRock (Singapore) Holdco Pte. Limited  
 
 Singapore  

BlackRock (Singapore) Limited  
 
 Singapore  

BlackRock Advisors (UK) Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock Advisors Singapore Pte. Limited  
 
 Singapore  

BlackRock Advisors, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Asia-Pac Holdco, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Asset Management Canada Limited  
 
 Canada  

BlackRock Asset Management Deutschland AG  
 
 Germany  

BlackRock Asset Management International Inc.  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Asset Management Investors Services Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock Asset Management Ireland Limited  
 
 Ireland  

BlackRock Asset Management North Asia Limited  
 
 Hong Kong  

BlackRock Asset Management Schweiz AG  
 
 Switzerland  

BlackRock Asset Management UK Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock Australia Holdco Pty. Ltd.  
 
 Australia  

BlackRock Brasil Gestora de Investimentos Ltda.  
 
 Brazil  

BlackRock Cal 1 Investor, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Canada Holdings LP  
 
 Canada  

BlackRock Canada Holdings, ULC  
 
 Canada  

BlackRock Capital Holdings, Inc.  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Capital Management, Inc.  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Cayco Limited  
 
 Cayman Islands  

BlackRock Cayman Capital Holdings Limited  
 
 Cayman Islands  

BlackRock Cayman Finco Limited  
 
 Cayman Islands  

BlackRock Channel Island Holdco Limited   
 
 Jersey  

BlackRock Chile Asesorias Limitada  
 
 Chile  

BlackRock Chile Holdings Inversiones Limitada  
 
 Chile  

BlackRock Colombia Holdco, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Colombia SAS  
 
 Colombia  

BlackRock Company Secretarial Services (UK) Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock Corporation US Inc.  
 
 California  

BlackRock Delaware Holdings Inc.  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Europe Development Management Limited  
 
 Cyprus  

BlackRock Execution Services  
 
 California  

BlackRock Executor   Trustee Co. Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock Finance Europe Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock Financial Management, Inc.  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Finco UK Ltd.  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock Finco, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock First Partner Limited  
 
 Jersey  

BlackRock Fund Advisors  
 
 California  

BlackRock Fund Management Company (Ireland) Limited.  
 
 Ireland  

BlackRock Fund Management Company S.A.  
 
 Luxembourg  

BlackRock Fund Managers Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock Funding International, Ltd.  
 
 Cayman Islands  

BlackRock Funds Services Group, LLC.  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Group Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock Group Limited   Luxembourg Branch  
 
 Luxembourg   

BlackRock HK Holdco Limited  
 
 Hong Kong  

BlackRock Holdco 2, Inc.  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Holdco 3, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Holdco 4, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Holdco 5, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Holdco 6, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Holdings (Schweiz) AG  
 
 Switzerland  

BlackRock Index Services, LLC.  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Institutional Services, Inc.  
 
 Delaware  

Name of Subsidiary 

Jurisdiction/State of Incorporation    

BlackRock Institutional Trust Company, National Association   
 
 United States  

BlackRock International Holdings, Inc.  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock International Limited  
 
 Scotland  

BlackRock Investment Management (Australia) Limited  
 
 Australia  

BlackRock Investment Management (Dublin) Limited  
 
 Ireland  

BlackRock Investment Management (Korea) Limited  
 
 Korea  

BlackRock Investment Management (Taiwan) Limited  
 
 Taiwan  

BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock Investment Management Ireland Holdings Limited  
 
 Ireland  

BlackRock Investment Management, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Investments, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Japan Co., Ltd.  
 
 Japan  

BlackRock Japan Holdings GK  
 
 Japan  

BlackRock Jersey Finco 1 Limited   
 
 Jersey  

BlackRock Jersey Finco 2 Limited   
 
 Jersey  

BlackRock Life Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock Lux Finco S.  r.l.  
 
 Luxembourg  

BlackRock Luxembourg Holdco S.  r.l.  
 
 Luxembourg  

BlackRock Mexican Holdco, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

Blackrock M xico Infraestructura I, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
 
 Mexico  

Blackrock M xico Infraestructura II, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
 
 Mexico   

BlackRock Mortgage Ventures, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Niagara LLC   
 
 Delaware   

BlackRock Operations (Luxembourg) S.  r.l.  
 
 Luxembourg  

BlackRock Overseas Investment Fund Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.   
 
 China  

BlackRock Pensions Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock Pensions Nominees Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock Property Asia Limited  
 
 Hong Kong  

BlackRock Property Consulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd.  
 
 China  

BlackRock Property France S.a.r.l  
 
 France  

BlackRock Property Germany GmbH  
 
 Germany  

BlackRock Property Lux S. .r.l.  
 
 Luxembourg  

BlackRock Property Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.  
 
 Malaysia  

BlackRock Property Singapore Pte. Ltd.  
 
 Singapore  

BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc.  
 
 Delaware  

BlackRock Services India Private Limited  
 
 India  

BlackRock Slovakia s.r.o.  
 
 Slovakia  

BlackRock Trident Holding Company Limited  
 
 Ireland  

BlackRock UK 1 LP  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock UK 2 LLP  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock UK 3 LLP  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock UK 4 LLP  
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock UK A LLP    
 
 United Kingdom  

BlackRock UK Holdco Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

BR Acquisition Mexico S.A. de C.V.  
 
 Mexico  

BR Jersey International Holdings L.P.  
 
 Jersey  

Grosvenor Alternate Partner Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

Grosvenor Ventures Limited  
 
 United Kingdom  

HLX Financial Holdings, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

Impulsora y Promotora BlackRock Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  
 
 Mexico  

iShares (DE) I Investmentaktiengesellschaft mit Teilgesellschaftsverm gen  
 
 Germany  

iShares Delaware Trust Sponsor LLC  
 
 Delaware  

Mercury Carry Company Ltd.  
 
 Isle of Man  

Mercury Private Equity MUST 3 (Jersey) Limited  
 
 Jersey  

Portfolio Administration   Management Ltd.  
 
 Cayman Islands  

Prestadora de Servicios Integrales BlackRock Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  
 
 Mexico  

St. Albans House Nominees (Jersey) Ltd.  
 
 Jersey  

Tlali Acero, S.A. de C.V., SOFAM  
 
 Mexico  

Trident Merger, LLC  
 
 Delaware  

Xulu, Inc.   
 
 Delaware  

*   
 
 Certain subsidiaries that are not significant have been omitted.     

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 blk-ex231_37.htm
 DELOITTE AND TOUCHE LLP CONSENT

blk-ex231_37.htm

Exhibit 23.1  
   
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
 We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-137708, 333-169329 and 333-197764 on Form S-8 of BlackRock, Inc. of our reports dated February 26, 2016, relating to the consolidated financial statements of BlackRock, Inc., and the effectiveness of BlackRock, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of BlackRock, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 blk-ex311_38.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

blk-ex311_38.htm

Exhibit 31.1  
 CEO CERTIFICATION  
 I, Laurence D. Fink, certify that:  

2.   
 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;     

3.   
 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;     

4.   
 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)), for the registrant and have:     

(a)   
 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)   
 
 Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)   
 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and     

(d)   
 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and     

5.   
 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):     

(a)   
 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and     

(b)   
 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.     

Date: February 26, 2016  

By:  
 
 /s/ Laurence D. Fink  

Laurence D. Fink  

Chairman   
 Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 blk-ex312_39.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

blk-ex312_39.htm

Exhibit 31.2  
 CFO CERTIFICATION  
 I, Gary S. Shedlin, certify that:  

2.   
 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;     

3.   
 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;     

4.   
 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)), for the registrant and have:     

(a)   
 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)   
 
 Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)   
 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and     

(d)   
 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and     

5.   
 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):     

(a)   
 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and     

(b)   
 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.     

Date: February 26, 2016  

By:  
 
 /s/ Gary Shedlin  

Gary S. Shedlin  

Senior Managing Director   
 Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 blk-ex321_40.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATON OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

blk-ex321_40.htm

Exhibit 32.1  
 Certification of CEO and CFO Pursuant to  
 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,  
 as Adopted Pursuant to  
 Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
 In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of BlackRock, Inc. (the  Company ) for the annual period ending December 31, 2015 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), Laurence D. Fink, as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Gary S. Shedlin, as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, each hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

(1)   
 
 The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

(2)   
 
 The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.     

/s/ Laurence D. Fink 

Name:  
 
 Laurence D. Fink  

Title:  
 
 Chairman   Chief Executive Officer  

Date:  
 
 February 26, 2016  

/s/ Gary Shedlin 

Name:  
 
 Gary S. Shedlin  

Title:  
 
 Senior Managing Director   
 Chief Financial Officer  

Date:  
 
 February 26, 2016  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 blk-20151231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 blk-20151231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 blk-20151231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 blk-20151231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 blk-20151231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 blk-20151231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

