<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080219_10-K_edgar_data_1800_0001047469-08-001480_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1545586</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>281691</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>46462</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>961982</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>80</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-08-001480.hdr.sgml : 20080218
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080219170818
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-08-001480
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080219
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080219

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ABBOTT LABORATORIES
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000001800
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				360698440
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02189
		FILM NUMBER:		08627277

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 ABBOTT PARK ROAD
		STREET 2:		D-322 AP6D
		CITY:			ABBOTT PARK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60064-3500
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8479376100

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MKgTLyVy3I4FEiQ4r9bLM/9Gk/C8qG8iahQrDKT7UAu95HOXOB7BGWIRTEYLkKnP
 wzZMdgjySo/Qotta34L0Og==

 0001047469-08-001480.txt : 20080219

10-K
 1
 a2182445z10-k.htm
 10-K

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549     

FORM 10-K     

Title of Each Class    
     
   Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered    

Common Shares, Without Par Value  
     
  New York Stock Exchange 
Chicago Stock Exchange  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     

   Yes        No         

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Act.     

   Yes        No         

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.     

   Yes        No         

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.            

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.     

   Large Accelerated Filer        Accelerated Filer
       Smaller Reporting Company        Non-accelerated
Filer         

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).     

   Yes        No         

   The aggregate market value of the 1,491,883,598 shares of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant,
computed by reference to the closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of Abbott Laboratories' most recently completed second fiscal quarter
(June 30, 2007), was $79,890,366,673. Abbott has no non-voting common equity.     

   Number of common shares outstanding as of January 31, 2008: 1,545,737,903     

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

   Portions of the 2008 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Proxy
Statement will be filed on or about March 19, 2008.     

PART I            

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS            

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS            

          Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900. Abbott's* principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture, and sale of a broad
and diversified line of health care products.   

FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS            

Incorporated herein by reference is Note 6 entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information related to Humira  included in "Financial Review."   

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS            

          Abbott has four reportable revenue segments: Pharmaceutical Products, Nutritional Products, Diagnostic Products, and Vascular Products. Abbott also has a
50 percent owned joint venture, TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.   

*    As
used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "Abbott" refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or Abbott Laboratories and its
consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.    
  1  

Pharmaceutical Products     

          These products include a broad line of adult and pediatric pharmaceuticals manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide, which are available primarily on the
prescription, or recommendation, of physicians. In 2007, Abbott announced a collaboration with Genentech, Inc. for the global research, development and commercialization of two of Abbott's
investigational anti-cancer compounds.   

          The
principal products included in the Pharmaceutical Products segment are:   

TriCor ,
for the treatment of dyslipidemia;
           Niaspan ,
for the treatment of high cholesterol;
           Humira ,
for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis and Crohn's disease;
           Synthroid ,
for the treatment of hypothyroidism;
           Meridia 
and Reductil  (also marketed as Reductyl  and Reductal ) for the treatment of obesity;
           Kaletra ,
Aluvia  and Norvir , protease inhibitors for the treatment of HIV infection;
           Depakote ,
an agent for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder and the prevention of migraines;
           the
anesthesia products sevoflurane (sold in the United States under the trademark Ultane  and outside of the United States primarily under the trademark
Sevorane  and in a few other markets as Ultane ), isoflurane, and enflurane;
           the
anti-infectives clarithromycin (sold under the trademarks Biaxin , Klacid  and Klaricid ), Omnicef , an oral
cephalosporin antibiotic, tosufloxacin, sold in Japan under the trademark Tosuxacin , and various forms of the antibiotic erythromycin, sold primarily as PCE  or polymercoated
erythromycin, Erythrocin , and E.E.S. 
           Lupron ,
also marketed as Lucrin , and Lupron Depot , marketed outside of the United States and used for the palliative treatment of
advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids; and
           Ogastro ,
also marketed as Prevacid  (lansoprazole), a proton pump inhibitor that is marketed outside of the United States and used principally for
the short-term treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease, duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers, and erosive esophagitis.    

The
Pharmaceutical Products segment markets most of its products worldwide and generally sells its products directly to wholesalers, government agencies, health care facilities,
specialty pharmacies and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other
companies. Some of these products are marketed and distributed through distributors. This segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription of Abbott's brand of products
by physicians. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) and state and federal governments and agencies (for example, the United States
Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers.   

          Competition
in the Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products
is a significant aspect of competition in this segment. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence in the
Pharmaceutical   

  2  

Products
segment. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical products that are
off-patent.   

   Diagnostic Products     

          These products include diagnostic systems and tests for blood banks, hospitals, commercial laboratories, physicians' offices, alternate-care testing
sites, and plasma protein therapeutic companies.   

          The
principal products included in the Diagnostic Products segment are:   

immunoassay
systems, including ARCHITECT , AxSYM , IMx , Commander , Abbott PRISM , TDx , and
TDxFlx 
           chemistry
systems such as ARCHITECT  c8000  and c16000 
           assays
used for screening and/or diagnosis for drugs of abuse, cancer, therapeutic drug monitoring, fertility, physiological diseases, and infectious diseases such as
hepatitis and HIV;
           the
m2000 , an instrument that automates the extraction, purification and preparation of DNA and RNA from patient samples and detects and measures infections
agents;
           the
Vysis  product line of genomic-based tests, including the PathVysion  HER-2 DNA probe kit and the UroVysion  bladder
cancer recurrence kit;
           a
full line of hematology systems and reagents known as the Cell-Dyn  series; and
           the
i-STAT  point-of-care diagnostic systems and tests for blood analysis.    

In
addition, under its strategic alliance with Celera Group, a part of the Applera Corporation, the Diagnostic Products segment develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of     in vitro    molecular
diagnostic products for disease detection, disease progression monitoring, and therapy selection.   

          The
Diagnostic Products segment markets its products worldwide. These products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals, laboratories, clinics, and physicians' offices from
Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.   

The
Diagnostic Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument warranty provisions, product
performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid
product obsolescence. Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new
products.   

   Nutritional Products     

These products include a broad line of pediatric and adult nutritional products manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide. These products are generally sold to
institutions, wholesalers, retailers, health care facilities and government agencies.   

          Principal
products in the Nutritional Products segment include:   

various
forms of prepared infant formula and follow-on formula, including Similac Advance , Similac , Similac 
With Iron, Similac Sensitive , Similac Sensitive RS , Similac  Go Grow , Similac  NeoSure, Similac  Organic, Isomil 
Advance , Isomil , Isomil  Go Grow , Alimentum , Gain , and Grow     
 
  3  

adult
and other pediatric nutritional products, including Ensure , Ensure Plus , Ensure  High Protein, Glucerna ,
ProSure , PediaSure , PediaSure 
NutriPals , EleCare , Juven , and Pedialyte 
           nutritional
products used in enteral feeding in health care institutions, including Jevity , Osmolite , Oxepa , and Nepro 
and
           Zone
Perfect  bars and the EAS family of nutritional brands, including AdvantEdge  and Myoplex .    

The
Nutritional Products segment's products are distributed from Abbott-owned distribution centers or public warehouses.   

          Primary
marketing efforts for nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation of Abbott's brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. In
addition, certain nutritional products sold as PediaSure , PediaSure  NutriPals , Ensure , EAS /Myoplex , and
Glucerna  are also promoted directly to the public by consumer marketing efforts. These products are generally sold directly to retailers and wholesalers.   

          Competition
for nutritional products in the segment is generally from other diversified consumer and health care manufacturers. Competitive factors include consumer advertising,
formulation, packaging, scientific innovation, price, and availability of private label product forms. A significant aspect of competition is the search for technological innovations. The introduction
of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. In addition, private labels may increase competitive pressure.   

   Vascular Products     

          These products include a broad line of coronary, endovascular and vessel closure devices used in the treatment of vascular disease.   

          The
principal products included in the Vascular Products segment are:   

Multi-Link
Vision , and Multi-Link Mini Vision , coronary metallic stents;
           Xience
V , a next-generation drug-eluting coronary stent system developed on the Multi-Link Vision platform;
           Balance
Middleweight  and Asahi coronary guidewires;
           StarClose ,
a vessel closure device;
           Acculink /Accunet 
and Xact /Emboshield , carotid stent systems; and
           Voyager 
balloon dilation products.    

The
Vascular Products segment markets its products worldwide. These products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public
warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.   

          The
Vascular Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, product performance, long-term supply
contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence. Although Abbott has
benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products.   

  4  

Other Products     

          The principle products in Abbott's other businesses include blood glucose monitoring meters, test strips, data management software and accessories for people with
diabetes, including the FreeStyle  product line. These products are mostly marketed worldwide and generally sold directly to wholesalers, government agencies, health care facilities, mail
order pharmacies, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Some of these products are marketed and distributed through distributors. Blood glucose
monitoring meters are also marketed and sold over-the-counter to consumers. These products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use,
service, product performance, and these products can be subject to rapid product obsolescence.   

   TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.     

          Under an agreement between Abbott and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, Limited of Japan (Takeda), TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (owned 50 percent
by Abbott and 50 percent by an affiliate of Takeda), together with its subsidiary, TAP Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TAP), develops and markets pharmaceutical products primarily for the United
States. TAP markets Lupron , an LH-RH analog, and Lupron Depot , a sustained release form of Lupron , in the United States. Lupron  and
Lupron Depot  are used principally for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, for the treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative
treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. TAP also markets Prevacid  (lansoprazole), a proton pump inhibitor. Its principal indications are for short-term
treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease, duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers, and erosive esophagitis. In addition, TAP co-promotes two products: Amitiza , which
is indicated for chronic idiopathic constipation, and Rozerem , which is indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep onset.   

          TAP's
products are generally sold directly to physicians, retailers, wholesalers, health care facilities, and government agencies. In most cases, they are distributed for TAP from
Abbott-owned distribution centers. Primary marketing efforts for pharmaceutical products are directed toward securing the prescription of TAP's brand of products by physicians. Managed care purchasers
(for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) are increasingly important customers.   

          Competition
is generally from other pharmaceutical companies. A significant aspect of competition is the search for technological innovations. The introduction of new products by
competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the availability of over-the-counter
drugs or the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures with respect to managed care purchasers.   

  5  

INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL            

   Sources and Availability of Raw Materials     

          Abbott purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to Abbott's operations from numerous suppliers in the United States and
abroad. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.   

   Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses     

          Abbott is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection for its products. Accordingly, where possible, patents and trademarks are sought and
obtained for Abbott's products in the United States and all countries of major marketing interest to Abbott. Abbott owns and is licensed under a substantial number of patents and patent applications.
Principal trademarks and the products they cover are discussed in the Narrative Description of Business on pages 1 through 5. These, and various patents which expire during the period 2008 to
2027, in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the operation of Abbott's business. Abbott believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents,
licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark Humira ), are material in relation to Abbott's business as a whole. The United States
composition of matter (i.e., compound) patents covering adalimumab will expire in 2016. In addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are significant for Abbott's Pharmaceutical
Products segment: those related to divalproex sodium (which is sold under the trademark Depakote ), those related to lansoprazole (which is sold under the trademarks Prevacid 
and Ogastro ), those related to lopinavir/ritonavir (which is sold under the trademarks Kaletra  and Aluvia ), those related to fenofibrate (which is sold under the
trademark TriCor ), and those related to niacin (which is sold under the trademark Niaspan ). The United States composition of matter patents covering divalproex sodium will
expire in 2008. The principal United States non-composition of matter patents covering the extended release form of divalproex sodium will expire in 2018. The United States
composition of matter patent covering lansoprazole is licensed by TAP from Takeda and will expire in 2009. The United States composition of matter patent covering lopinavir will expire in 2015. The
United States composition of matter patents covering ritonavir will expire in 2015. The United States non-composition of matter patent covering lopinavir/ritonavir will expire in 2016. The
principal United States non-composition of matter patents covering the fenofibrate products will expire in 2011, 2018, 2020, and 2023. The principal United States
non-composition of matter patents covering the niacin products will expire in 2013, 2014, 2017, and 2018. Some patents under license in the Vascular Products segment related to rapid
exchange technology expire in 2008, but the impact is not expected to be material. Litigation related to the products listed above is discussed in Legal Proceedings on pages 16 through 19.   

          Although
the expiration of a composition of matter patent may lead to increased competition, in most cases Abbott owns or has a license to other patents that expire after the composition
of matter patent related to particular formulations, uses, or processes for manufacturing the pharmaceutical. These non-composition of matter patents and Abbott's other intellectual
property, along with such other factors as a competitor's need to obtain regulatory approvals prior to marketing a competitive product and the nature of the market, may allow Abbott to continue to
maintain exclusivity or have other commercial advantages after the expiration of the composition of matter patent.   

   Seasonal Aspects, Customers, Backlog, and Renegotiation     

          There are no significant seasonal aspects to Abbott's business. The incidence of certain infectious diseases which occur at various times in different areas of
the world does, however, affect the demand for Abbott's anti-infective products. Orders for Abbott's products are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to
Abbott's business. Abbott has no single customer that, if the customer   

  6  

were
lost, would have a material adverse effect on Abbott. No material portion of Abbott's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the
government.   

   Research and Development     

          Abbott spent $2,505,649,000 in 2007, $2,255,271,000 in 2006, and $1,821,175,000 in 2005 on research to discover and develop new products and processes and to
improve existing products and processes. The majority of research and development expenditures is concentrated on pharmaceutical products.   

Environmental Matters     

          Abbott believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection. Regulations under
federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. Abbott's capital and operating expenditures for
pollution control in 2007 were approximately $16 million and $59 million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2008 are estimated to be
$12 million and $63 million, respectively.   

          Abbott
has been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States including Puerto Rico under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Abbott is also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which are owned by Abbott, in
cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation
activities, Abbott believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a
material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or operations.   

   Employees     

          Abbott employed approximately 68,000 persons as of December 31, 2007.   

   Regulation     

          The development, manufacture, sale, and distribution of Abbott's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Government regulation by various
federal, state, and local agencies, both domestically and abroad, which includes detailed inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product
approvals and manufacturing, marketing and promotion, sampling, distribution, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices, and achieving compliance with these regulations, substantially increases
the time, difficulty, and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to market newly developed and existing products. Government regulatory actions can result in delay in the release of
products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions. In addition, governmental regulatory
agencies require prescription drug and medical device manufacturers to pay fees, such as application, product, and establishment fees.   

          Abbott
is a party to a consent decree entered in 1999 that requires Abbott to ensure its diagnostics manufacturing processes in Lake County, Illinois conform with the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration's (FDA) Quality System Regulation and restricts the sale in the United States of certain products in the Diagnostics Product segment. In 2003, the FDA concluded that those operations
were in substantial conformity.   

          International
operations are also subject to a significant degree of government regulation and country-specific rules and regulations. Many countries, directly or indirectly, through
reimbursement   

  7  

limitations,
control the selling price of most health care products. Furthermore, many countries limit the importation of raw materials and finished products.   

Continuing
studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their components are being conducted by industry, government agencies, and others. Such
studies, which employ increasingly sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed products and in some cases have resulted,
and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of marketing of such products and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.   

          Access
to and the cost of human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in the
United States and other countries. In the United States, most states have enacted generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different
manufacturer's version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services
provided under Medicare or Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a
health care facility to a fixed reimbursement based on diagnosis rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control
expenditures for many health care products. Under federal law, manufacturers must pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under state
Medicaid plans. In addition, a majority of states are seeking additional rebates. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 requires manufacturers to extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products
to various federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service entities and institutions, as well as certain other covered entities.   

          In
the United States, governmental cost containment efforts have extended to the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). All
states are mandated to have in place a cost containment program for infant formula. As a result, states obtain rebates from manufacturers of infant formula whose products are used in the program
through competitive bidding.   

          Abbott
expects debate to continue during 2008 at all government levels over marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. Abbott
believes that if legislation is enacted, it could have the effect of limiting patient access, reducing prices, or reducing the rate of price increases, for health care products and services.   

          Efforts
to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector. Health care providers have responded by instituting various cost reduction and containment measures.   

It
is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.   

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS            

          Abbott markets products in approximately 130 countries through affiliates and distributors. Most of the products discussed in the preceding sections of this
report are also sold outside the United States. In addition, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines to meet local regulatory requirements and marketing preferences are
manufactured and marketed to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including
price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.   

  8  

INTERNET INFORMATION            

          Copies of Abbott's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge
through Abbott's investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after Abbott electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission.   

          Abbott's
corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of Abbott's audit committee, compensation committee,
nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on Abbott's investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com) or by sending a request for a paper copy to: Abbott
Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Dept. 362, AP6D2, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6048, attn. Investor Relations.   

  9  

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS            

          In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered before deciding to invest in any of Abbott's securities.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Abbott, or risks Abbott currently considers immaterial, could also affect Abbott's actual results. Abbott's business, financial condition,
results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.   

   Abbott may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of or spin-off businesses, which could cause it to incur
significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability.     

          Abbott may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of or spin-off some of its businesses, as part
of its business strategy. Abbott may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits. If Abbott is
successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated.
Abbott may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. Abbott could also experience
negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of
long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of Abbott's credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.   

   The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may affect Abbott's future revenues and operating income.     

          Many of Abbott's businesses rely on patent and trademark and other intellectual property protection. Although most of the challenges to Abbott's intellectual
property have come from other businesses,
governments may also challenge intellectual property protections. To the extent Abbott's intellectual property is successfully challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or to the extent it does not
allow Abbott to compete effectively, Abbott's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce Abbott's intellectual property rights or to the extent that countries require compulsory
licensing of its intellectual property, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced. Abbott's principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in the sections
captioned, "Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses" and "Financial Review," and litigation regarding these patents is described in the section captioned "Legal Proceedings."   

Abbott
faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. The expiration or loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic
substitutes, that may significantly reduce Abbott's sales for that product in a short amount of time. If Abbott fails to maintain its competitive position, because of generics or otherwise, it could
have a material adverse effect on its revenues, margins, business and results of operations.   

   Competitors' intellectual property may prevent Abbott from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability and financial condition.     

Competitors may claim that an Abbott product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property infringement claim can be costly and
time consuming and may require Abbott to enter into royalty or license agreements. If this should be necessary, Abbott cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on
commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject Abbott to significant damages or an   

  10  

injunction
preventing the manufacture, sale or use of affected Abbott products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.   

   Abbott is subject to cost-containment efforts that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating income.     

          In the United States and other countries, Abbott's businesses have experienced downward pressure on product pricing. Cost-containment efforts by
governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in the section captioned "Regulation." To the extent these cost containment efforts are not offset by greater patient access to
healthcare or other factors, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced.   

   Abbott is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes.     

          Abbott's products are subject to rigorous regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and numerous international, supranational, federal and state
authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products, or
additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new indications and uses, could
result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in revenues, and in substantial additional costs.   

          In
addition, no assurance can be given that Abbott will remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once clearance or approval has been obtained for a
product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports
and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. Many of Abbott's facilities and procedures and those of Abbott's suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by
the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Abbott must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. Possible regulatory actions could include warning
letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of Abbott's products and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to
Abbott's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of Abbott's products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of Abbott's facilities while Abbott or Abbott's
suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these
events could disrupt Abbott's business and have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues, profitability and financial condition.   

Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on Abbott, require Abbott to change its business practices, and restrict its operations
in the future.     

          Abbott's industry is also subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit program reimbursement, price
reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care Act and individual state
laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment
and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and
they are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Abbott to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition,
violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Abbott's business and result in a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues, profitability and financial condition.   

  11  

Abbott's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause Abbott's revenue and profitability to
decline.     

          To remain competitive, Abbott must continue to launch new products and technologies. To accomplish this, Abbott commits substantial efforts, funds, and other
resources to research and development. A high rate of failure is inherent in the research and development of new products and technologies. Abbott must make ongoing substantial expenditures without
any assurance that its efforts will be commercially successful. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including after significant funds have been invested.   

Promising
new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may only have limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical
outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or
infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Even if Abbott successfully develops new products or enhancements or new generations of Abbott's existing products, they may be quickly
rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or changing industry standards. Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of
clinical practice or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. Abbott cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development will be launched, whether it will be able to
develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or new indications for existing products
may cause Abbott's products to become obsolete, causing Abbott's revenues and operating results to suffer.   

   New products and technological advances by Abbott's competitors may negatively affect Abbott's results of operations.     

          Abbott's products face intense competition from its competitors' products. Competitors' products may be safer, more effective, more effectively marketed or sold,
or have lower prices or superior performance features than Abbott's products. Abbott cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products.   

   The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if Abbott or one of its suppliers encounters problems manufacturing products,
Abbott's business could suffer.     

          The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise during
manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters and environmental factors.
If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer
relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is
released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. To the extent Abbott or one of its suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material
adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.   

  12  

The international nature of Abbott's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline.     

          Abbott's
business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Sales outside of the United States make up approximately 50% of Abbott's net sales. The risks
associated with Abbott's operations outside the United States include:   

changes
in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs;
           multiple
foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict Abbott's ability to manufacture, market and sell its products;
           differing
local product preferences and product requirements;
           trade
protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;
           difficulty
in establishing, staffing, and managing foreign operations;
           differing
labor regulations;
           potentially
negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;
           political
and economic instability;
           inflation,
recession and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates; and
           diminished
protection of intellectual property or compulsory licensing.    

These
risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.   

   Significant safety issues could arise for Abbott's products, which could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and financial condition.     

          All health care products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. Following regulatory approval,
these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If new safety issues are reported, Abbott may
be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, Abbott may be required to provide additional warnings on a product's label or
narrow its approved indication, either of which could reduce the product's market acceptance. If serious safety issues with an Abbott product arise, sales of the product could be halted by Abbott or
by regulatory authorities.   

          In
addition, in the ordinary course of business, Abbott is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products have resulted or could result in an unsafe
condition for or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on Abbott's
business and reputation and on Abbott's ability to attract and retain customers. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.   

   Other factors can have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability and financial condition.     

          Many
other factors can affect Abbott's profitability and its financial condition, including:   

Differences
between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for pensions, retiree health care, stock compensation,
intangibles and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation, the absence of a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the minimum, compared to the actual amount.    
 
  13  

Changes
in or interpretations of laws and regulations including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements and environmental laws in domestic or foreign
jurisdictions.
           Changes
in the rate of inflation, interest rates, market value of Abbott's equity investments, and the performance of investments held by Abbott or Abbott's employee benefit
trusts.
           Changes
in business and political conditions, including (i) war, political instability, terrorist attacks in the U.S. and other parts of the world, the threat of
future terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related military action, (ii) natural disasters, (iii) the cost and availability of insurance due to any of the
foregoing events, (iv) labor disputes, strikes, slow-downs or other forms of labor or union activity, and (v) pressure from third-party interest groups.
           Changes
in Abbott's business units and investments and changes in the relative and absolute contribution of each to earnings and cash flow resulting from evolving business
strategies, changing product mix, changes in tax rates both in the U.S. and abroad and opportunities existing now or in the future.
           Changes
in the buying patterns of a major distributor, retailer, or wholesale customer resulting from buyer purchasing decisions, pricing, seasonality, or other factors, or
other problems with licensors, suppliers, distributors and business partners.
           Difficulties
related to Abbott's information technology systems, any of which could adversely affect business operations, including any significant breakdown, invasion,
destruction or interruption of these systems.
           In
connection with Abbott's acquisition of the vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses of Guidant Corporation, Abbott loaned BSC International Holding,
Limited (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific) $900 million on a subordinated basis. As long as the loan is outstanding, Abbott will be a creditor of Boston Scientific with respect to
the $900 million loan and, as such, is subject to credit risk.
           Legal
difficulties, any of which could preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect profitability, including claims asserting statutory or regulatory
violations, adverse litigation decisions, and issues regarding compliance with any governmental consent decree or corporate integrity agreement.    

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS            

          This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. Words such
as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "forecasts," variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking
statements. Certain factors, including but not limited to those identified under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K, may cause actual results to differ materially from
current expectations, estimates, projections, forecasts and from past results. No assurance can be made that any expectation, estimate or projection contained in a forward-looking statement will be
achieved or will not be affected by the factors cited above or other future events. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of
subsequent events or developments.   

  14  

ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS            

          None.   

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES            

Abbott's corporate offices are located at 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400. The locations of Abbott's principal plants, as of
December 31, 2007, are listed below.   

Location      
     
   Segments of Products Produced      

Abbott Park, Illinois  
     
  Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Products  

Alameda, California*  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Altavista, Virginia  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Barceloneta, Puerto Rico  
     
  Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Products  

Brockville, Canada  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Campoverde di Aprilia, Italy  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Casa Grande, Arizona  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Clonmel, Ireland  
     
  Vascular Products  

Columbus, Ohio  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Cootehill, Ireland  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Dartford, England*  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Des Plaines, Illinois  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Edison, New Jersey*  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Fairfield, California*  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Granada, Spain  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Irving, Texas  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Jayuya, Puerto Rico  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Katsuyama, Japan  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Longford, Ireland  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Ludwigshafen, Germany  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Mexico City, Mexico  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

North Chicago, Illinois  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Ottawa, Ontario, Canada*  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Redwood City, California*  
     
  Vascular Products  

Rio de Janeiro, Brazil  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Santa Clara, California  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Sligo, Ireland  
     
  Nutritional and Diagnostic Products  

South Pasadena, California  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Sturgis, Michigan  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Temecula, California  
     
  Vascular Products  

Whippany, New Jersey  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Wiesbaden, Delkenheim, Germany  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Witney, Oxon, England  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Worcester, Massachusetts  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Zwolle, the Netherlands  
     
  Nutritional Products  

*    Leased
property    

          In
addition to the above, Abbott has manufacturing facilities in six other locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Outside the United States, manufacturing facilities are
located in fourteen other countries. Abbott's facilities are deemed suitable and provide adequate productive capacity.   

  15  

In
the United States, including Puerto Rico, Abbott owns nine distribution centers. Outside the United States, Abbott owns eight distribution centers. Abbott also has eighteen United
States research and development facilities located at: Abbott Park, Illinois; Alameda, California; Austin, Texas; Columbus, Ohio (two locations); Des Plaines, Illinois; East Windsor, New Jersey;
Fairfield, California; Irving, Texas; Long Grove, Illinois; Mountain View, California; North Chicago, Illinois; Parsippany, New Jersey; Redwood City, California; Santa Clara, California (two
locations); Temecula, California; and Worcester, Massachusetts. Outside the United States, Abbott has research and development facilities in Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland,
Japan, the Netherlands, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.   

Except
as noted, the corporate offices, and those principal plants in the United States listed above, are owned by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. The remaining manufacturing plants
and all other facilities are owned or leased by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. There are no material encumbrances on the properties.   

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS            

          Abbott is involved in various claims, legal proceedings and investigations, including (as of January 31, 2008) those described below.   

A
case is pending against Abbott in the Eastern District of Texas, in which New York University (NYU) and Centocor, Inc. assert that Humira  infringes a patent
co-owned by NYU and Centocor and exclusively licensed to Centocor. The complaint asserts that Abbott has willfully infringed the patent and seeks damages, including treble damages. The
complaint does not seek injunctive relief.   

          Several
lawsuits are pending against Abbott, Fournier Industrie et Sante, and Laboratoires Fournier, S.A. (Fournier), alleging antitrust and unfair competition claims in
connection with the sale of fenofibrate formulations. One purported class action,    Paul T. Regan    (filed in July 2005), is pending in the United States
District Court for the Central District of California. Fourteen other purported class actions and six individual actions are pending in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware:     Alberto
Litter    (filed in August 2005),    Allied Services Division Welfare Fund and Hector Valdes    (filed in
June 2005),    American Sales Company, Inc.    (filed in March 2006),    Cindy Cronin    (filed in July
2005),    Diana Kim    (filed in June 2005),    Local 28 Sheet Metal Workers    (filed in July 2005),     Louisiana Wholesale Drug Company,
 Inc.    (filed in June 2005),    Meijer, Inc.    (filed in June
2005),    Painters District Council No. 30 Health and Welfare Fund    (filed in June 2005),    Pennsylvania Employees Benefit
Trust Fund    (filed in June 2005),    Philadelphia Federation of Teachers Health and Welfare Fund    (filed in July 2005),     Elaine M. Pullman    (filed in June 2005),    Rochester Drug Co-Operative, Inc.    (filed in
June 2005),    Charles M. Shain    (filed in July 2005), and    Vista Healthplan, Inc.    (filed in June
2005),    CVS Pharmacy, Inc.    (filed in August 2005),    Impax Laboratories    (filed in June 2005),     Pacificare Health Systems,
 Inc.    (filed in August 2005),    Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.   
(filed in June 2005), and    Walgreen Co.    (filed in June 2005). The plaintiffs seek actual damages, treble damages and other relief.   

          A
number of cases, brought as purported class actions or representative actions on behalf of individuals or entities, are pending that allege generally that Abbott and numerous other
pharmaceutical companies reported false pricing information in connection with certain drugs that are reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid and by private payors. These cases, brought by private
plaintiffs, the United States Department of Justice, state Attorneys General, and other state government entities, generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. Abbott
has filed or intends to file a response in each case denying all substantive allegations. The federal court cases have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States
District Court for the District of Massachusetts under the Multi District Litigation Rules as    In re: Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation, MDL
1456   . MDL 1456 includes: (a) a purported class action case in which plaintiffs seek to certify nationwide classes of Medicare Part B consumers and third party
payors and other consumers, filed in June 2003; (b) seven   

  16  

state
Attorneys General and two state county suits, including a consolidated New York counties/City of New York suit filed in June 2005; (c) a civil whistle-blower suit brought by the United
States Department of Justice (filed in federal court in the Southern District of Florida in May 2006); and (d) a civil whistle-blower suit brought by Ven-A-Care of the
Florida Keys, Inc., unsealed against Abbott in August 2007 and in which the United States declined to intervene. The MDL Court is transferring the case brought by the Montana Attorney General
back to the Montana federal court for a ruling on defendants' motion for summary judgment.   

          In
addition, several cases are pending in state courts:    State of West Virginia   , filed in October 2001 in the Circuit Court of Kanawha
County, West Virginia;    Swanston   , filed in March 2002 in the Superior Court for Maricopa County, Arizona;    Commonwealth of
Kentucky   , filed in September 2003 in the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky;    State of Ohio   , filed in March 2004 in the
Court of Common Pleas for Hamilton County, Ohio;    Commonwealth of Pennsylvania   , filed in March 2004 in the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania;     State of Texas   , filed in May 2004 in the District Court of Travis County, Texas;    State of Wisconsin   ,
filed in June 2004 in the Circuit Court of Dane County, Wisconsin;    State of Alabama   , filed in January 2005 in the Circuit Court of Montgomery County,
Alabama;    State of Illinois   , filed in February 2005 in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois;    County of
Erie   , filed in March 2005 in the Supreme Court of Erie County, New York;    State of Mississippi   , filed in October 2005 in the
Circuit Court of Hinds County, Mississippi;    State of Hawaii   , filed in April 2006 in the First Circuit Court of Hawaii;    County of
Oswego   , filed in August 2006 in the Supreme Court of Oswego County, New York;    County of Schenectady   , filed in August 2006 in the
Supreme Court of Schenectady County, New York;    State of South Carolina    (on behalf of its state health plan), filed in August 2006 in the Court of Common
Pleas, Fifth Judicial Circuit of Richland County, South Carolina;    State of Alaska   , filed in October 2006 in the Superior Court for the Third Judicial
District in Anchorage, Alaska; and    State of Idaho   , filed in January 2007 in the District Court of the Fourth Judicial District in Ada County, Idaho.
Certain state agencies, including the Attorney General of Florida, are also investigating these practices. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the outcome of the proceedings and
investigations related to pricing information for drugs reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid, their ultimate dispositions could be material to cash flows or results of operations for a quarter.   

The
Office of the Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services in conjunction with the United States Department of Justice, through the United States
Attorneys for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, the Western District of Louisiana, and the Middle District of Louisiana are investigating the sales and marketing practices of Kos
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a company
Abbott acquired in December 2006. In addition, the United States Attorney for Louisiana is investigating Kos' calculation and reporting of Medicaid rebates. The government is seeking to determine
whether any of these practices resulted in any violations of civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute, and the Medicaid Rebate Statute
in connection with the Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties.   

          In
addition, the United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney for Maryland, is investigating the sales and marketing practices of Abbott for
Micardis , a drug co-promoted for (until March 31, 2006) and manufactured by Boehringer Ingelheim. The government is seeking to determine whether any of these practices
resulted in any violations of civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, and the Anti-Kickback Statute in connection with the Medicare and/or Medicaid
reimbursement paid to third parties.   

          Abbott
is a defendant in a class action lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois under the name    Myla Nauman, Jane
Roller and Michael Loughery v. Abbott Laboratories and Hospira, Inc.    The plaintiffs are former Abbott employees who allege that their transfer to Hospira, Inc.,
as part of the spin-off of Hospira, adversely affected their employee benefits in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, and that in their transfer, Abbott breached a
fiduciary duty to plaintiffs involving employee benefits. Plaintiffs generally seek reinstatement as Abbott employees, or reinstatement as participants in Abbott's employee benefit plans, or an award
for the employee benefits   

  17  

they
have allegedly lost. Abbott filed a response denying all substantive allegations. As previously reported, the court granted plaintiffs' motion for class certification of the breach of fiduciary
claim.   

          A
purported derivative lawsuit is pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois and was brought by Leonard Bronstein, an Abbott shareholder, on behalf
of Abbott against Abbott and each member of its Board of Directors (the "Defendants"). The complaint alleges the Defendants breached their fiduciary responsibilities in connection with oversight of
regulatory compliance with Food and Drug Administration regulations which caused unspecified injury or damage to the Company. Plaintiff seeks an unspecified amount of monetary damages for all losses
Abbott suffered stemming from the alleged breach of fiduciary duty. The defendants have filed a motion to dismiss.   

          Several
lawsuits are pending against Abbott that generally allege antitrust violations in connection with the 2003 Norvir re-pricing. A consolidated class action on behalf of
individual consumers,    John Doe 1    (filed in April 2004), and third party payors,    Service Employees International Union
Health   Welfare Fund    (filed in October 2004), is pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. Several additional cases,
including three purported class actions on behalf of direct purchasers, have been filed by    Rite Aid, Inc.    (filed in December 2007),     Louisiana Wholesale Drug Company,
 Inc.    (filed in December 2007),    GlaxoSmithKline    (filed in
November 2007),    Meijer, Inc.    (filed in November 2007),    Rochester Drug
Co-Operative, Inc.    (filed in November 2007), and    Safeway, Inc.    (filed in October 2007) and are pending
in United States District
Court for the Northern District of California. The plaintiffs seek actual damages, treble and/or punitive damages, injunctive, and other relief.   

A
case is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California in which Medtronic Vascular, Inc., Medtronic USA, Inc., and Medtronic Vascular
Galway, Ltd. (collectively Medtronic) and Evysio Medical Devices ULC (Evysio) claim that Abbott's Multi-Link Vision , Multi-Link Penta ,
Multi-Link Zeta , and Xience V  Coronary stent systems infringe certain Evysio stent design patents. Medtronic and Evysio seek damages, an injunction, and other
relief. Abbott has filed its response denying the infringement claims and asserting that the patents are invalid and/or unenforceable. Evysio has also brought lawsuits in France, Ireland (in which
Medtronic is also a plaintiff) and Germany claiming that the Multi-Link Vision, Multi-Link Penta, and/or Xience V infringe the European counterparts of these patents. In
France, a court enjoined the launch of the Xience V stent as designed as of 2006. Abbott appealed this decision and filed responses in each of these European courts denying the infringement claims and
asserting that the patents are invalid. In the United Kingdom, Abbott filed an action seeking a declaration that its stents do not infringe Evysio's patents and that the patents are invalid. Evysio
filed a counterclaim that accuses Abbott's stents of infringement and seeks a declaration of validity.   

          A
case is pending in the U.S. District Court for Delaware brought by Advanced Cardiovascular Systems, Inc., now an Abbott subsidiary, against Arterial Vascular
Engineering, Inc. (now known as Medtronic Vascular, Inc.) alleging that certain models of Medtronic's stents infringe four of Abbott's Lau patents, and seeking injunctive relief and
damages. The court bifurcated the issues of liability and damages. In February 2005, a jury found that Abbott's Lau patents were valid and infringed by all of the Medtronic stents in question,
including its Driver  coronary stent. The court denied Medtronic's post-trial motions asking the court to enter a judgment in Medtronic's favor and/or for a new trial. In June
2005, the court held a hearing on Medtronic's claim that Abbott's patents are unenforceable. The court rejected Medtronic's claims of inequitable conduct. In June 2007, Abbott filed a motion seeking
to enjoin Medtronic from infringing activities relating to their stent designs, and Medtronic filed a motion to stay proceedings related to the injunction. Medtronic's motion to stay was denied with
respect to the named bare metal stents, and was granted with respect to the Endeavor stent pending further determinations.   

A
case is pending in the U.S. District Court for New Jersey brought by Johnson   Johnson, Inc. and Cordis Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Johnson  
Johnson, (collectively Johnson   Johnson) against Abbott, in which Johnson   Johnson asserts infringement of certain of Johnson   Johnson's patents by Abbott's Xience V stent, and
seeks an injunction, an award of damages, and a determination of   

  18  

willful
infringement. The previously reported cases in the U.S. District Court of Delaware were dismissed after Johnson   Johnson's granting of a covenant not to sue Abbott with respect to
certain other patents held by Johnson   Johnson. In January 2008, Cordis Corporation and Wyeth filed suit in New Jersey accusing the Xience V stent of infringement of three additional patents.
Abbott denies all substantive allegations.   

          Abbott
is seeking to enforce its patents relating to divalproex sodium (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark Depakote ). Abbott seeks injunctive relief against the
following companies for their proposed generic versions of extended release Depakote:    Sandoz Inc.    (filed in December
2007)   , Zydus Pharmaceuticals    (filed in December 2007), and    Wockhardt Limited and Wockhardt
USA Inc.    (filed in May 2007), which are pending in the U.S. District Court for New Jersey;    Impax Laboratories Inc.   
(filed in June 2007), and    Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.    (filed in May 2007), which are pending in the U.S. District Court for Delaware;     Anchen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and
Anchen International Pharmaceuticals Company, Ltd.    (one filed in December 2006 and two filed in August
2007), pending in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California; and    Mylan Pharmaceuticals    (one filed in November 2005 and another in
April 2006), pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. In the cases related to delayed release Depakote, Abbott seeks injunctive relief:     Nu-Pharm Inc.   ,    Apotex Inc.   , and    Apotex
Corp.    (filed in June 2005 and May 2006), pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois; and    Banner
Pharmacaps Inc.    (filed in November 2007).   

          While
it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims, proceedings and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion that their ultimate dispositions
should not have a material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations, except as noted above.   

ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS            

          None.   

  19  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT            

          Executive officers of Abbott are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers are elected by the board or appointed by the chairman of the
board. All officers are either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual shareholder meeting or appointed by the chairman after that board meeting. Each officer
holds office until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officer's death, resignation, or removal. Vacancies may be filled at any time by the board. Any officer may
be removed by the board of directors when, in its judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. Any officer appointed by the chairman of the board may be removed by the chairman
whenever, in the chairman's judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. A vacancy in any office appointed by the chairman of the board may be filled by the chairman.   

          Abbott's
executive officers, their ages as of February 15, 2008, and the dates of their first election as officers of Abbott are listed below. The executive officers' principal
occupations and employment from January 2003 to February 15, 2008 are also shown. Unless otherwise stated, employment was by Abbott for the period indicated. There are no family relationships
between any corporate officers or directors.   

   Miles D. White, 52     

2003
to present   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Director.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1993.   

Richard W. Ashley, 64     

2004
to present   Executive Vice President, Corporate Development.   

2003   Senior
Director, McKinsey and Company (a management consulting firm).   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2004.   

John M. Capek, 46     

2007
to present   Executive Vice President, Medical Devices.   

  2006
to 2007   Senior Vice President, Abbott Vascular.   

  2006   Vice
President, Abbott Vascular.   

  2005
to 2006   President, Guidant Vascular Intervention.   

  2003
to 2005   Vice President and General Manager, Bioabsorbable Vascular Solutions 
(a subsidiary of Guidant Corporation).   

  2003   President,
Guidant Vascular Intervention.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2006.   

Thomas C. Freyman, 53     

2004
to present   Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.   

  2003
to 2004   Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1991.   

Holger A. Liepmann, 56     

2006
to present   Executive Vice President, Global Nutrition.   

20  

2006   Executive
Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group.   

  2004
to 2006   Senior Vice President, International Operations.   

  2003
to 2004   Vice President, Japan Operations, Abbott International Division.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

Edward L. Michael, 51     

2007   Executive
Vice President, Diagnostics.   

  2007   Senior
Vice President, Medical Products.   

  2003
to 2007   Vice President and President, Molecular Diagnostics.   

2003   Vice
President, Immunoassay/Clinical Chemistry.   

  2003   Vice
President, Diagnostic Assays.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1997.   

Laura J. Schumacher, 44     

2007   Executive
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.   

  2005
to 2007   Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel.   

2003
to 2005   Vice President, Secretary and Deputy General Counsel.   

  2003   Divisional
Vice President, Litigation.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2003.   

James L. Tyree, 54     

2007   Executive
Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group.   

2006
to 2007   Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations.   

  2006   Senior
Vice President, Global Nutrition.   

  2005
to 2006   Senior Vice President, Nutrition International Operations.   

  2003
to 2005   Vice President, Global Licensing/New Business Development.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

Olivier Bohuon, 49     

2006
to present   Senior Vice President, International Operations.   

  2003
to 2006   Vice President, European Operations.   

  2003   Senior
Vice President, European Commercial Operations, GlaxoSmithKline 
(a British based pharmaceutical, biologicals and healthcare company).   

Elected
Corporate Officer   2003.   

   Thomas F. Chen, 58     

2006
to present   Senior Vice President, Nutrition International Operations.   

  2005
to 2006   Vice President, Nutrition International, Asia and Latin America.   

21  

2005   Vice
President, Nutrition International, Asia, Canada, Latin America.   

  2003
to 2005   Vice President, Abbott International, Pacific/Asia/Africa Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1998.   

Stephen R. Fussell, 50     

2005
to present   Senior Vice President, Human Resources.   

  2003
to 2005   Vice President, Compensation and Development.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

Robert B. Hance, 48     

2006
to present   Senior Vice President, Diabetes Care Operations.   

  2006   Vice
President and President, Vascular Solutions.   

  2003
to 2006   Vice President and President, Abbott Vascular Devices.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

John C. Landgraf, 55     

2004
to present   Senior Vice President, Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and Supply.   

  2003
to 2004   Vice President, Quality Assurance and Compliance, Medical Products Group.   

2003   Vice
President, Operations, Diagnostic Products.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2000.   

Donald V. Patton Jr., 55     

2007   Senior
Vice President, Abbott Nutrition Products Division.   

  2006
to 2007   Vice President, Diagnostic Global Commercial Operations.   

2005
to 2006   Vice President, Commercial Operations.   

  2004
to 2005   Vice President, International Marketing.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2004.   

Mary T. Szela, 44     

2007   Senior
Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations.   

  2006   Vice
President, Commercial Pharmaceutical Operations.   

  2003
to 2006   Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products, Primary Care Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

Greg W. Linder, 51     

2003
to present   Vice President and Controller.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

22  

PART II            

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES            

Principal Market     

          The principal market for Abbott's common shares is the New York Stock Exchange. Shares are also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange and are traded on the Boston,
Philadelphia, and National Stock Exchanges, as well as on the NYSE Arca and NASDAQ iM markets. Outside the United States, Abbott's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Swiss Stock
Exchange.   

Shareholders     

          There were 73,176 shareholders of record of Abbott common shares as of December 31, 2007.   

   Dividends     

          Quarterly dividends of $.325 and $.295 per share were declared on common shares in 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          Abbott
Laboratories is an Illinois High Impact Business (HIB) and is located in a federal Foreign Trade Sub-Zone (Sub-Zone 22F). Dividends may be eligible for a
subtraction from base income for Illinois income tax purposes. If you have questions, please contact your tax advisor.   

  23  

Performance Graph     

The following graph compares the change in Abbott's cumulative total shareholder return on its common shares with the Standard   Poor's 500 Index and the
Standard   Poor's 500 Health Care Index.   

24  

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

1.    These
shares represent:

(i)    the
shares deemed surrendered to Abbott to pay the exercise price in connection with the exercise of employee stock options   178,590 in October;
496,122 in November; and 552,701 in December; and
      (ii)    the
shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the Abbott Canada Stock Retirement Plan   12,000 in October; 16,000 in
November; and 16,000 in December.     

These
shares do not include the shares surrendered to Abbott to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units.   

2.    On
October 18, 2006, Abbott announced that its board of directors approved the purchase of up to $2.5 billion of its common shares.    

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA            

(a)    Net
sales for 2003 have been adjusted to reflect the presentation of Hospira, Inc. as a discontinued operation.
      (b)    In
2006, Abbott recorded pre-tax charges of $2,014 for acquired in-process and collaborations research and development primarily related to the acquisition of
Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc.    
  25  

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS            

Financial Review            

          Abbott's revenues are derived primarily from the sale of a broad line of health care products under short-term receivable arrangements. Patent
protection and licenses, technological and performance features, and inclusion of Abbott's products under a contract or by a pharmacy benefit manager most impact which products are sold; price
controls, competition and rebates most impact the net selling prices of products; and foreign currency translation impacts the measurement of net sales and costs. Abbott's primary products are
prescription pharmaceuticals, nutritional products, diagnostic testing products and vascular products. Abbott also owns 50 percent of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. that Abbott
accounts for on the equity method.   

          The
worldwide launch of additional indications of    HUMIRA   , the acquisitions of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions
businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc., the amendments ending the Boehringer Ingelheim agreement and the    Synagis    co-promotion
agreement, the loss of patent protection for some pharmaceutical products, and realized gains and unrealized losses on the Boston Scientific common stock have impacted Abbott's sales, costs and
financial position over the last three years.   

          Pharmaceutical
research and development is focused on therapeutic areas that include immunology, oncology, neuroscience, pain management, and infectious diseases. In 2003, Abbott began
the worldwide launch of    HUMIRA    for rheumatoid arthritis, followed by launches for three additional indications, which increased     HUMIRA's    worldwide sales to
$3.0 billion in 2007 compared to $2.0 billion in 2006, and $1.4 billion in 2005. Including the launch
of a fifth indication in 2008, Abbott forecasts worldwide    HUMIRA    sales of approximately $4 billion in 2008. Substantial research and development
and selling support has been and continues to be dedicated to maximizing the worldwide potential of    HUMIRA   . In December 2006, Abbott acquired Kos
Pharmaceuticals Inc. which complements Abbott's
existing franchise in the dyslipidemia market and strengthened the pharmaceutical pipeline for cholesterol management. In 2005, Abbott and Boehringer Ingelheim (BI) amended their agreement whereby
Abbott distributed and promoted BI products. Effective January 1, 2006, Abbott no longer distributed or recorded sales for distribution activities for the BI products. Abbott's gross margins
for BI products from the prior agreement in effect through December 31, 2005 were substantially lower than its average gross margins. Sales of BI products were $150 million and
$2.3 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, increased generic competition resulted in U.S. sales of    Omnicef    declining from
$637 million in 2006 to $235 million in 2007, and worldwide sales of clarithromycin declining from $1.1 billion in 2005 to $724 million in 2007.   

          On
December 31, 2006, the U.S. co-promotion agreement for    Synagis    terminated. Revenues for co-promotion of     Synagis    were $373 million in 2006.
Abbott's nutritional products businesses have been reorganized into a worldwide business to better leverage
the opportunities available for strong nutritional brands. Significant efforts have been focused on capturing those opportunities, particularly in developing markets where growth has been strong.   

          In
April 2006, Abbott acquired Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and began to integrate it with Abbott's vascular business. The acquisition
significantly improved Abbott's competitive position in this business that is characterized by rapid innovation. In 2006, Abbott received European Union approval to market the     Xience V    drug eluting
stent, and Abbott is awaiting approval in the U.S.   

          Abbott's
diagnostic segment comprises three separate divisions   immunochemistry/hematology, point of care, and molecular. Subsequent to the termination of the
agreement to sell the immunochemistry/hematology and point of care businesses to GE, Abbott has re-focused on managing and growing these businesses.   

  26  

Abbott
acquired 64.6 million shares of Boston Scientific in connection with Abbott's acquisition of the vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses of Guidant. In
2007, the net loss charged to expense for the investment was $153 million. At December 31, 2007, Abbott held 26.4 million shares of Boston Scientific common stock. Subsequent to
year end, all of these shares were sold resulting in a small gain. Abbott's short- and long-term debt totaled $12.2 billion at December 31, 2007, largely incurred to finance
recent acquisitions. Operating cash flows in excess of capital expenditures and cash dividends have partially funded acquisitions over the last three years. At December 31, 2007, Abbott's
long-term debt rating was AA by Standard and Poor's Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investors Service.   

          In
2008, Abbott will focus on several key initiatives. In the pharmaceutical business, Abbott will continue the launch of newly approved indications for     HUMIRA    and continue to leverage the product and
pipeline opportunities of its lipid franchise, including the Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. business.
Pharmaceutical research and development efforts will continue to focus on the therapeutic areas noted above with a significant portion of the development expenditures allocated to new     HUMIRA    indications,
 as well as    Simcor    and ABT-335, cholesterol drugs,
ABT-335/Crestor fixed dose combination, ABT-874, a biologic for psoriasis and Crohn's disease, and controlled release    Vicodin
CR,    as well as several Phase I and Phase II clinical programs in neuroscience and oncology. In the vascular business, Abbott will continue the launch of the     Xience V   
drug-eluting stent internationally, and will launch in the U.S. upon approval by the FDA. For diabetes care, Abbott anticipates
launching the    FreeStyle Freedom Lite    monitor in the U.S. as well as the    FreeStyle Navigator   . In the
other business segments, Abbott will focus on developing or acquiring differentiated technologies in higher growth segments of those markets.   

   Critical Accounting Policies     

             Sales Rebates      Approximately 48 percent of Abbott's consolidated gross revenues are
subject to various forms of rebates and allowances that Abbott records as reductions of revenues at the time of sale. Most of these rebates and allowances are in the Pharmaceutical Products segment
and the Nutritional Products segment. Abbott provides rebates to pharmacy benefit management companies, to state agencies that administer the federal Medicaid and Medicare programs and the Special
Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), wholesalers, group purchasing organizations, and other government agencies and private entities. Rebate amounts are usually based upon
the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices for a product. Factors used in the rebate calculations include the identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate,
which customer or government agency price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a rebate. Using historical trends, adjusted for current changes, Abbott estimates the
amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when Abbott records its sale of the product. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from two to
24 months after sale. Abbott regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. Rebates and chargebacks
charged against gross sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to approximately $3.2 billion, $2.6 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, or 21.5 percent,
23.2 percent, and 22.9 percent, respectively, based on gross sales of approximately $15.0 billion, $11.0 billion and $10.9 billion, respectively, subject to rebate.
A one-percentage point increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales would decrease net sales and operating earnings by approximately $150 million in 2007. Abbott
considers a one-percentage point increase to be a reasonably likely increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales. Other allowances charged against gross sales were
approximately $325 million, $247 million and $284 million for cash discounts in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $269 million, $209 million and
$162 million for returns in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Cash discounts are known within 15 to 30 days of sale, and therefore can be reliably estimated. Returns can be reliably
estimated because Abbott's historical returns are low, and because sales returns terms and other sales terms have remained relatively unchanged for several periods.   

  27  

Management
analyzes the adequacy of ending rebate accrual balances each quarter. In the domestic nutritional business, management uses both internal and external data available to
estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel. Management has access to several large customers' inventory management systems, and for other customers, utilizes data from a third party
that continuously measures time on the retail shelf. These sources allow management to make reliable estimates of inventory in the distribution channel. Except for a transition period before or after
a change in the supplier for the WIC business in a state, inventory in the distribution channel does not vary substantially. Management also estimates the states' processing lag time based on claims
data. In addition, internal processing time is a factor in estimating the accrual. In the WIC business, the state where the sale is made, which is the determining factor for the applicable price, is
reliably determinable. Estimates are required for the amount of WIC sales within each state where Abbott has the WIC business. External data sources utilized for that estimate are participant data
from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which administers the WIC program, participant data from some of the states, and internally administered market surveys. The USDA has been making its
data available for many years. Internal data includes historical redemption rates and pricing data. At December 31, 2007, Abbott had the exclusive WIC business in 27 states.   

In
the domestic pharmaceutical business, the most significant charges against gross sales are for Medicaid and Medicare Rebates, Pharmacy Benefit Manager Rebates and Wholesaler
Chargebacks. In order to evaluate the adequacy of the ending accrual balances, management uses both internal and external estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel and the rebate
claims processing lag time. External data sources used to estimate the inventory in the distribution channel include inventory levels periodically reported by wholesalers and third party market data
purchased by Abbott. Management estimates the processing lag time based on periodic sampling of claims data. To estimate the price rebate percentage, systems and calculations are used to track sales
by product by customer and to estimate the contractual or statutory price. Abbott's systems and calculations have developed over time as rebates have become more significant, and Abbott believes they
are reliable.   

          The
following table is an analysis of the four largest rebate accruals, which comprise approximately 74 percent of the consolidated rebate provisions charged against revenues in
2007. Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross sales are not significant in the determination of operating earnings. (   dollars in thousands   )   

Historically,
adjustments to prior years' rebate accruals have not been material to net income. In 2007, adjustments were made to prior years' rebate accruals. The Medicaid and Medicare
rebate accrual was reduced by approximately $69 million and the WIC rebate accrual was increased by approximately   

  28  

$19 million.
Abbott employs various techniques to verify the accuracy of claims submitted to it, and where possible, works with the organizations submitting claims to gain insight into changes
that might affect the rebate amounts. For Medicaid, Medicare and other government agency programs, the calculation of a rebate involves interpretations of relevant regulations, which are subject to
challenge or change in interpretation.   

             Income Taxes      Abbott operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audits and
adjustments. Because Abbott operates globally, the nature of the audit items are often very complex, and the objectives of the government auditors can result in a tax on the same income in more than
one country. Abbott employs internal and external tax professionals to minimize audit adjustment amounts where possible. On January 1, 2007, Abbott adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation
No. 48 "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes," which changed the measurement of tax contingencies. Under this Interpretation, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer
must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest amount that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon
resolution of the benefit. Application of this Interpretation requires a significant amount of judgment. In the U.S., Abbott's federal income tax returns through 2003 are settled, and the income tax
returns for years after 2003 are open. Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries.   

             Pension and Post-Employment Benefits      Abbott offers pension benefits and post-employment
health care to many of its employees. Abbott engages outside actuaries to calculate its obligations and costs under these programs. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most
significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rate and the expected return on plan assets. The discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on
high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The health care cost trend rates represent Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the
cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A difference between the assumed rates and the actual rates, which will not be known for
decades, can be significant in relation to the obligations and the annual cost recorded for these programs. Recent low interest rates have significantly increased actuarial losses for these plans. At
December 31, 2007, pretax net actuarial losses and prior service costs and (credits) recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for Abbott's defined benefit plans and medical
and dental plans were $960 million and $408 million, respectively. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the
corridor method, in accordance with the rules for accounting for post-employment benefits. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual
annual return are amortized over a five-year period. Footnote 4 to the consolidated financial statements describes the impact of a one-percentage point change in the health
care cost trend rate;
however, there can be no certainty that a change would be limited to only one percentage point. On December 31, 2006, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 "Employers' Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans." The provisions of this statement require the recognition of the deferrals on the balance sheet with a corresponding charge to Accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss). Adoption of this statement on December 31, 2006 resulted in a decrease in Abbott's shareholders' equity of approximately $1.3 billion.   

             Valuation of Intangible Assets      Abbott has acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets that Abbott
records at fair value. Those assets which do not yet have regulatory approval and for which there are no alternative uses are expensed as acquired in-process research and development, and
those that have regulatory approval are capitalized. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the health care field and
valuations are usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash inflows, risk, the cost of capital,
terminal values and market participants. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. Abbott engages independent valuation experts who review Abbott's critical
assumptions and calculations for   

  29  

significant
acquisitions of intangibles. Abbott reviews intangible assets for impairment each quarter using an undiscounted net cash flows approach. If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible
asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is usually the discounted cash flow amount. Where cash flows cannot be
identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest group level for which cash flows are identifiable. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or when an event that could
result in an impairment of goodwill occurs. At December 31, 2007, goodwill and intangibles amounted to $10.1 billion and $5.7 billion, respectively, and amortization expense for
intangible assets amounted to $782 million in 2007. There were no impairments of goodwill in 2007, 2006 or 2005.   

             Litigation      Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for
Contingencies." Under SFAS No. 5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss
contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period as additional
information becomes known. Accordingly, Abbott is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes
known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate
amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected. Except for a patent case and the majority of cases relating to
pharmaceutical pricing for which Abbott is unable to estimate a loss, if any, Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $110 million to $325 million for its
legal proceedings and environmental exposures. Reserves of approximately $165 million have been recorded at December 31, 2007 for these proceedings and exposures. These reserves
represent management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by SFAS No. 5.   

             Stock Compensation      On January 1, 2006, Abbott adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based
Payment," which requires that fair value of stock options be recorded in the results of operations. Since there is no market for trading employee stock options, management must use a fair value
method. There is no certainty that the results of a fair value method would be the value at which employee stock options would be traded for cash. Fair value methods require management to make several
assumptions, the most significant of which are the selection of a fair value model, stock price volatility and the average life of an option. Abbott has readily available
grant-by-grant historical activity for several years in its option administration system that it uses in developing some of its assumptions. Abbott uses the Black-Scholes
method to value stock options. The results of the Black-Scholes model are periodically compared to the binomial model and the results have been comparable. Abbott uses both historical volatility of
its stock price and the implied volatility of currently traded options to develop the volatility assumptions. Abbott uses the historical grant activity, combined with expectations about future
exercise activity, to develop the average life assumptions. Abbott has also used the historical grant data to evaluate whether certain holders of stock options exercised their options differently than
other holders and has not found any differentiating pattern among holders.   

  30  

Results of Operations     

   Sales     

          The following table details the components of sales growth by reportable segment for the last three years:   

Worldwide
2007 sales compared to 2006 reflect the acquisitions of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses on April 21, 2006 and Kos
Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, the Pharmaceutical Products segment had an agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim (BI) to co-promote and distribute
three of its products in the U.S. In 2005, Abbott and BI amended the agreement and effective January 1, 2006, Abbott no longer distributed or recorded sales for distribution activities for the
BI products although Abbott recorded a small amount of co-promotion revenue in 2006. The increases in sales for 2006 excluding BI products were 11.6 percent for total net sales,
12.3 percent for total U.S. sales and 7.8 percent for Pharmaceutical Products segment sales. Sales growth in 2007 for the   

  31  

Nutritional
Products segment reflects the completion of the U.S. co-promotion of    Synagis    in 2006. Excluding sales of     Synagis    in 2006, Nutritional Products segment
sales increased 11.3 percent.   

A
comparison of significant product group sales is as follows. Percent changes are versus the prior year and are based on unrounded numbers.   

Increased
sales volume of    HUMIRA    and increased volume and price for    Depakote    favorably
impacted U.S. Specialty sales. U.S. Primary Care sales in 2007 were favorably impacted by sales of    Niaspan   , a new product from the acquisition of Kos
Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, increased sales volume for    Omnicef    in 2006 and 2005 and increased sales of     TriCor    in
all three years favorably impacted U.S. Primary Care sales. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of     Omnicef    in 2007 and lower U.S. sales of    Biaxin    in all three years due primarily to the introduction of
generic competition. U.S. sales of    Omnicef    were $235 million, $637 million and $495 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively,
and U.S. sales of    Biaxin    were $36 million, $151 million and $306 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Increased sales
volume of    HUMIRA    favorably impacted International Pharmaceuticals sales, partially offset by decreased sales volume in 2006 due to generic competition
for clarithromycin. The decrease in sales of U.S. Pediatric Nutritionals in 2005 was primarily due to overall infant nutritionals non-WIC category decline and competitive share loss.
International Pediatric Nutritionals sales increases were due primarily to volume growth in developing countries. U.S. Adult Nutritionals sales in 2005 were favorably impacted by the acquisition of
EAS in the fourth quarter of 2004. International sales in 2007 were also favorably impacted by the effect of the relatively weaker U.S. dollar. Abbott has periodically sold product rights to
non-strategic products and has recorded the related gains in net sales in accordance with Abbott's revenue recognition policies as discussed in footnote 1 to the consolidated financial
statements. Related net sales were $184 million in 2007, $199 million in 2006 and $177 million in 2005.   

          The
expiration of licenses, patent protection and generic competition can affect the future revenues and operating income of Abbott. Significant ongoing generic activities and
significant patent and license expirations in the next three years are as follows. The U.S. composition of matter patent for    Depakote    expires in July of
2008. Abbott holds non-composition of matter patents on the extended
release form of    Depakote   . U.S. sales of    Depakote    were $1.5 billion in 2007. The Pharmaceutical
Products segment markets    Depakote   . Some patents under license in the Vascular Products segment related to rapid exchange technology expire in 2008,
however the impact is not expected to be material. The patent for    Prevacid   , which is marketed by TAP Pharmaceuticals, expires in 2009.   

  32  

Operating Earnings     

          Gross profit margins were 55.9 percent of net sales in 2007, 56.3 percent in 2006 and 52.4 percent in 2005. The decrease in the gross profit
margin in 2007 was due, in part, to the effect of the unfavorable impact in 2007 of the completion of the U.S. co-promotion of    Synagis    in
2006 as well as generic competition for    Omnicef    and    Biaxin    sales in 2007. Increased amortization of
intangible assets acquired in 2006 also had an unfavorable impact on the gross profit margins in 2007. The increase in the gross profit margin in 2006 was due to favorable product mix, primarily as a
result of decreased sales of Boehringer Ingelheim products that had lower margins than other products in the Pharmaceutical Products segment and the decrease in the gross profit margin in 2005 was due
to unfavorable product mix, primarily as a result of increased sales of Boehringer Ingelheim products. Restructuring charges, discussed below, reduced the gross profit margins in 2007, 2006 and 2005
by 0.7 percentage points, 1.1 percentage points and 0.8 percentage points, respectively. Gross profit margins in all years were also affected by productivity improvements, higher
commodity costs, higher project expenses for new products, higher manufacturing capacity costs for anticipated unit growth and the effects of inflation.   

In
the U.S., states receive price rebates from manufacturers of infant formula under the federally subsidized Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children. There
are also rebate programs for pharmaceutical products. These rebate programs continue to have a negative effect on the gross profit margins of the Nutritional and Pharmaceutical Products segments.
Higher commodity costs unfavorably impacted the gross profit margins for the Nutritional Products segment in 2007 and pricing pressures unfavorably impacted the gross profit margins in 2006 and 2005.   

          The
gross profit margins for the Pharmaceutical Products segment were favorably impacted in 2006 and unfavorably impacted in 2005 by product mix. The favorable product mix in 2006 was
due to decreased sales of lower margin Boehringer Ingelheim products and the unfavorable impact on the gross profit margin in 2005 was due primarily to increased sales of lower margin Boehringer
Ingelheim products and higher other manufacturing costs.   

          Research
and development expense, excluding acquired in-process and collaborations research and development, was $2.5 billion in 2007, $2.3 billion in 2006 and
$1.8 billion in 2005 and
represented increases of 11.1 percent in 2007, 23.8 percent in 2006 and 7.3 percent in 2005. The effect of recording compensation expense relating to share-based awards in 2006
and additional costs associated with Abbott's decision to discontinue the commercial development of the    ZoMaxx    drug-eluting stent increased
research and development expenses by 6.3 percentage points over 2005. The increases in 2007 and 2006 were also affected by the acquisitions of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular
solutions businesses in April 2006 and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2006. These increases also reflect increased spending to support pipeline programs, including new
indications for    HUMIRA,    and ABT-335 (a cholesterol drug), ABT-335/Crestor fixed-dose combination,
ABT-874 (a biologic for psoriasis and Crohn's disease), controlled-release    Vicodin CR, Xience V,    as well as several Phase I
and Phase II clinical programs in neuroscience and oncology. The majority of research and development expenditures are concentrated on pharmaceutical products.   

Selling,
general and administrative expenses increased 16.7 percent in 2007 compared to increases of 15.5 percent in 2006 and 11.7 percent in 2005. The 2007 increase
reflects the acquisitions of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. The 2006 increase reflects recording compensation expense
relating to share-based awards, a philanthropic contribution to the Abbott Fund and the acquisition of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses. These items increased
selling, general and administrative expenses by 8.6 percentage points over 2005. The restructuring charges discussed below and an increase in a bad debt reserve associated with an unfavorable
court ruling increased the percent change from 2004 by 2.7 percentage points in 2005. The remaining increases in selling, general and administrative expenses were due primarily to increased
selling and marketing support for new and existing products, including continued spending for   

  33  

HUMIRA    and the continuing international launch of    Xience V   , as well as spending on other marketed pharmaceutical products.
Increases in all three years also reflect inflation and additional selling and marketing support primarily in the Pharmaceutical Products segment.   

   Restructurings        (dollars in millions)      

          In 2007, 2006 and 2005, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical and vascular manufacturing operations and selected domestic and
international commercial and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, Abbott recorded pretax charges against earnings of approximately $107, $210 and $256,
respectively, reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $94, $181 and $174, respectively, is classified as
cost of products sold, $3, $29 and $10, respectively, as research and development and $10 in 2007 and $72 in 2005 as selling, general and administrative. Fair value for the determination of the amount
of asset impairments was determined primarily based on a discounted cash flow method. An additional $90, $70 and $14 were subsequently recorded in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, relating to these
restructurings, primarily for accelerated depreciation. In addition, Abbott implemented facilities restructuring plans in 2007
related to the acquired operations of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc., which resulted in an increase to goodwill of approximately $52.   

          The
following summarizes the activity for restructurings:   

Abbott
expects to incur up to an additional $73 in future periods for restructuring plans, primarily for accelerated depreciation.   

   Interest Expense     

          Interest expense increased in 2007 and 2006 due primarily to higher borrowings as a result of the acquisitions of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular
solutions businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Abbott's investment in the Boston Scientific common stock and note receivable.   

Other (income) expense, net     

          Other (income) expense, net for 2007 includes a $190 million fair market value loss adjustment to Abbott's investment in Boston Scientific common stock and
a realized gain of $37 million on the sales of Boston Scientific common stock. Other (income) expense, net for 2007 and 2006 includes fair value gain adjustments of $28 million and
$91 million, respectively, to certain derivative financial instruments included with the investment in Boston Scientific common stock.   

  34  

Taxes on Earnings     

          The income tax rates on earnings were 19.3 percent in 2007, 24.6 percent in 2006 and 27.0 percent in 2005. Taxes on earnings in 2006 reflect
the effect of the tax rates applied to acquired in-process research and development and the resolution of prior years' income tax audits and the effect of other discrete tax items. For
2006, the tax rates applied to acquired in-process and collaborations research and development increased the effective tax rate by 6.6 percentage points and the effect of the income
tax audit resolution and other discrete tax items decreased the effective tax rate by 5.5 percentage points. In 2005, Abbott remitted $4.3 billion of foreign earnings in accordance with
the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and recorded additional tax expense of $245 million, which increased the effective tax rate by approximately 5.3 percentage points. This was
partially offset by adjustments of prior years' tax accounts resulting primarily from resolution of prior years' accrual requirements, which decreased the effective tax rate by 2.3 percentage
points. Abbott expects to apply an annual effective rate of somewhat above 19 percent in 2008.   

   Recently Adopted Accounting Standards     

          Effective January 1, 2007, Abbott adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements," and SFAS
No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." Adoption of these Standards did not have a material impact on Abbott's financial position. However, adoption of
SFAS No. 159 and SFAS No. 157 resulted in a decrease to Earnings employed in the business of approximately $189 million, substantially offset by an increase to Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) of approximately $182 million as of January 1, 2007.   

          Effective
January 1, 2007, Abbott adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes." FASB Interpretation No. 48 requires that a
recorded tax benefit must be more likely than not of being sustained upon examination by tax authorities based upon its technical merits. The amount of benefit recorded is the largest amount of
benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Adoption of this Interpretation did not have a material impact on Abbott's financial position.   

   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions     

          In December 2006, Abbott acquired Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. for cash of approximately $3.8 billion, net of cash held by Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc., to
expand Abbott's presence in the lipid management market and to provide several on-market and late-stage pipeline products. Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. was a specialty
pharmaceutical company that developed and marketed proprietary medications for the treatment of chronic cardiovascular, metabolic and respiratory diseases. This business was acquired on
December 13, 2006 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. The acquisition was financed primarily with
short-term debt. The allocation of the purchase price resulted in a charge of $1.3 billion for acquired in-process research and development, intangible assets of
$821 million, goodwill (primarily non-deductible) of $1.6 billion and net liabilities, primarily deferred income taxes recorded at acquisition of $331 million.
Acquired intangible assets are being amortized over 4 to 15 years. Non-deductible acquired in-process research and development was charged to income in 2006.   

          A
substantial amount of the acquired in-process research and development charge relating to the Kos acquisition related primarily to cholesterol treatment drugs. The research
efforts ranged from 70 percent to 80 percent complete at the date of acquisition. The valuation method used to fair value the projects was the Multi-period Excess Earnings Method (Income
Approach) and the risk-adjusted discount rate used was 16 percent. In developing assumptions for the valuation model, comparable Abbott products or products marketed by competitors
were used to estimate pricing, margins and expense levels. As of December 31, 2007, one drug was approved for marketing in the U.S. and the remaining research efforts   

  35  

were
primarily on schedule. The estimated projected costs to complete the projects totaled approximately $75 million as of December 31, 2007 with anticipated product launches from 2008
through 2010. There have been no significant changes in the development plans for the acquired incomplete projects. Significant net cash inflows will commence with the launches of the products.   

          In
order to expand Abbott's presence in the growing vascular market, Abbott acquired Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses on April 21, 2006 for
approximately $4.1 billion, in cash, in connection with Boston Scientific's acquisition of Guidant. In addition, Abbott will also pay to Boston Scientific $250 million each upon
government approvals to market the    Xience V    drug-eluting stent in the U.S. and in Japan. Government approvals are anticipated in 2008 for
the U.S. and in 2009 for Japan. Each $250 million payment will result in the recording of additional goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price resulted in a charge of $665 million
for acquired in-process research and development, intangible assets of $1.2 billion, goodwill (primarily deductible) of $1.7 billion and tangible net assets of
$580 million. Acquired intangible assets are being amortized over 4 to 15 years. Deductible acquired in-process research and development was charged to income in 2006. The
net tangible assets acquired consist primarily of property and equipment of approximately $530 million, trade accounts receivable of approximately $250 million and inventories of
approximately $120 million, net of assumed liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, litigation reserves and other liabilities.   

A
substantial amount of the acquired in-process research and development charge relating to the Guidant acquisition related to drug eluting and bioabsorbable stents. The
research efforts ranged from 35 percent to 85 percent complete at the date of acquisition. The valuation method used to fair value the projects was the Multi-period Excess Earnings
Method (Income Approach) and the risk-adjusted discount rates used ranged from 16 percent to 25 percent. In developing assumptions for the valuation model, comparable Abbott
products or products marketed by competitors were used to estimate pricing, margins and expense levels. As of December 31, 2007, the research efforts were primarily on schedule. The estimated
projected costs to complete totaled approximately $390 million as of December 31, 2007, with anticipated product launch dates from 2008 through 2013. There have been no significant
changes in the development plans for the acquired incomplete projects. Significant net cash inflows will commence within one to two years after product launch.   

          In
order to facilitate Boston Scientific's acquisition of Guidant, Abbott also acquired 64.6 million shares of Boston Scientific common stock directly from Boston Scientific and
loaned $900 million to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific. The common stock was valued at $1.3 billion and the note receivable was valued at $829 million at the
acquisition date. In connection with the acquisition of the shares, Boston Scientific is entitled to certain after-tax gains upon Abbott's sale of the shares. In addition, Boston
Scientific agreed to reimburse Abbott for certain borrowing costs on debt incurred to acquire the Boston Scientific shares. Abbott recorded a net derivative financial instruments liability of
$59 million for the gain-sharing derivative financial instrument liability and the interest derivative financial instrument asset. The effect of recording the shares, the loan to
Boston Scientific and the derivative financial instruments at fair value on the date of acquisition resulted in the recording of additional goodwill of approximately $204 million. Changes in
the fair value of the derivative financial instruments, net are recorded in Other (income) expense, net.   

          In
2005, Abbott acquired the remaining interest in a small medical products company and a less than 50 percent equity interest in a small medical products company for
$25 million. In 2005, Abbott also acquired additional rights related to    HUMIRA    for approximately $270 million, which are being amortized
over 13 years.   

          Had
the above acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have been significantly different from reported amounts.   

  36  

Financial Condition     

   Cash Flow     

          Net cash from operating activities amounted to $5.2 billion, $5.3 billion and $5.0 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Cash from
operating activities in 2007 and 2006 compared to 2005 is higher due to higher net earnings adjusted for after-tax non-cash charges for acquired in-process research
and development in 2006 and share-based compensation and higher contributions to retirement benefit plans in 2005 compared to 2007 and 2006; partially offset by higher income tax payments in 2006,
including tax payments related to the 2005 remittances of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act. Abbott funds its domestic pension plans according to IRS funding limitations. In 2007
and 2006, $200 million was funded to the main domestic pension plan and in 2005, $641 million was funded to the main domestic pension plan. Abbott expects pension funding for its main
domestic pension plan of $200 million annually. The increased contribution in 2005 was due, in part, to the investment of cash remitted under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Abbott
expects annual cash flow from operating activities to continue to exceed Abbott's capital expenditures and cash dividends.   

   Debt and Capital     

          At December 31, 2007, Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard   Poor's Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investors Service. Abbott
has readily available financial resources, including unused lines of credit of $3.0 billion that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements. These lines of credit expire in 2012.   

          In
October 2006, the board of directors authorized the purchase of $2.5 billion of Abbott's common shares from time to time and no shares were purchased under this authorization
in 2006. In 2007, Abbott purchased approximately 19.0 million of its common shares at a cost of approximately $1.0 billion. In 2006 and 2005, Abbott purchased approximately
17.3 million and 30.0 million, respectively, of its common shares under prior authorizations at a cost of approximately $755 million and $1.3 billion, respectively.   

Under
a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in February 2006, Abbott issued $3.5 billion of long-term debt in 2007 that matures in
2012 through 2037 with interest rates ranging from 5.15 percent to 6.15 percent. Proceeds from this debt were used to pay down short-term borrowings that were incurred to
partially fund the acquisition of Kos
Pharmaceuticals Inc. Under the same registration statement, Abbott issued $4.0 billion of long-term debt in 2006 that matures in 2009 through 2016 with interest rates ranging
from 5.375 percent to 5.875 percent. Proceeds from this debt were used to pay down domestic commercial paper borrowings that were incurred to partially fund the acquisition of Guidant's
vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses. In addition, commercial paper borrowings were used to repay $1.9 billion of long-term debt in 2006. In 2005, Abbott
borrowed $1.9 billion of long-term debt that was scheduled to mature in May 2008 with variable interest rates above LIBOR. In 2007 and 2006, $300 million and
$1.6 billion, respectively, of this debt was paid prior to maturity.   

   Working Capital     

          Working capital was $4.9 billion at December 31, 2007 and $4.0 billion at December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2006, current
liabilities exceeded current assets by approximately $669 million as a result of increased short-term borrowings used to acquire Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. in December 2006.   

   Capital Expenditures     

          Capital expenditures of $1.7 billion in 2007, $1.3 billion in 2006 and $1.2 billion in 2005 were principally for upgrading and expanding
manufacturing, research and development, investments in   

  37  

information
technology and administrative support facilities in all segments, and for laboratory instruments placed with customers.   

   Contractual Obligations     

          The following table summarizes Abbott's estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007:   

(a)    Purchase
commitments are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital expenditure requirements.    

   Contingent Obligations     

          Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other companies which has resulted
in Abbott becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other parties, Abbott is unable to
develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. In
addition, Abbott periodically acquires a business or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain
events. In connection with the acquisition of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses, Abbott will pay to Boston Scientific $250 million each upon government
approvals to market the    Xience V    drug-eluting stent in the U.S. and in Japan. Government approvals are anticipated in 2008 for the U.S. and
in 2009 for Japan. In addition, Abbott has retained liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off of Hospira and certain potential liabilities, if any, related to alleged improper
pricing practices in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs.   

   Recently Issued Accounting Standards     

          In December 2007, the FASB issued two standards: SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007) "Business Combinations" and SFAS No. 160 "Noncontrolling Interests in
Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB No. 51." Abbott will adopt these standards on January 1, 2009. Statement No. 141 (revised 2007) will impact
Abbott primarily in five areas: acquired in-process research and development will be accounted for as an indefinite lived intangible asset until approval or discontinuation rather than as
expense; acquisition costs will be expensed rather than added to the cost of an acquisition; restructuring costs in connection with an acquisition will be expensed rather than added to the cost of an
acquisition; the fair value of contingent consideration at the date of an acquisition will be included in the cost of an acquisition; and the fair value of contingent liabilities that are more likely
than not of occurrence will be   

  38  

recorded
at the date of an acquisition. The effect of these changes will be applicable to acquisitions on or after January 1, 2009. Adoption of Statement No. 160 will not have a material
effect on Abbott.   

   Legislative Issues     

          In August 2006, the President of the United States signed the Pension Protection Act of 2006. Among other things, the Act establishes new minimum funding
requirements for plan years beginning in 2008. Abbott does not expect this Act to significantly impact future fundings of its domestic defined benefit pension plans.   

Abbott's
primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulation throughout the world. Abbott expects debate to continue over the availability, method of
delivery, and payment for health care products and services. Abbott believes that if legislation is enacted, it could have the effect of reducing access to health care products and services, or
reducing prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be adversely
affected by these factors in the future. A more complete discussion of these factors is contained in Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors on Form 10-K.   

Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995   A Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements     

          Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Abbott cautions investors that any forward-looking statements or
projections made by Abbott, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Economic,
competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

  39  

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK            

Financial Instruments and Risk Management            

   Investment in Boston Scientific Common Stock and Note Receivable     

          At December 31, 2007, Abbott held 26.4 million shares, or approximately $300 million of Boston Scientific common stock. Subsequent to year
end, all of these shares were sold resulting in a small gain. At December 31, 2006, Abbott held 64.6 million shares, or approximately $1 billion of Boston Scientific common stock.
Abbott also has a $900 million loan, due in April 2011, to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and, as such, is subject to credit risk.   

   Other Market Price Sensitive Investments     

          Abbott holds available-for-sale equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions. Excluding Boston Scientific, the market value of
these investments was approximately $193 million and $97 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary
declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in value occurs. A hypothetical 20 percent decrease in the share prices of these
investments would decrease their fair value at December 31, 2007 by approximately $39 million. (A 20 percent decrease is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term
change in share prices.)   

   Non-Publicly Traded Equity Securities     

          Abbott holds equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions that are not traded on public stock exchanges. The carrying value of these investments was
approximately $37 million and $33 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No individual investment is in excess of $13 million. Abbott monitors these
investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs.   

   Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments     

          At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Abbott had interest rate hedge contracts totaling $1.5 billion to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of
debt due in 2009 through 2014. The effect of these hedges is to change the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. Abbott does not use derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to
manage its exposure to changes in interest rates for its investment securities. The fair value of long-term debt at December 31, 2007 and 2006 amounted to $10.6 billion and
$7.1 billion, respectively (average interest rates of 5.0% and 4.7%, respectively) with maturities through 2037. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the fair market value of current and
long-term investment securities amounted to $896 million and $941 million, respectively. A hypothetical 100-basis point change in the interest rates would not
have a material effect on cash flows, income or market values. (A 100-basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in rates.)   

   Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments     

          Abbott enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated intercompany loans and trade payables and
third-party trade payables and receivables. The contracts are marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are generally offset by losses or
gains on the foreign currency exposure being managed. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Abbott held $5.5 billion and $5.6 billion, respectively, of such contracts, which mature in
the next twelve months.   

          In
addition, certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated
intercompany purchases by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts are   

  40  

designated
as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign exchange rates and are marked-to-market with the resulting gains or losses
reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Gains or losses will be included in Cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally within the next twelve months. At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, Abbott held $281 million and $768 million, respectively, of such contracts, which all mature in the following calendar year.   

Abbott
has designated approximately $1.7 billion of foreign denominated short-term debt as a hedge of the net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. Accordingly,
changes in the fair value of this debt due to changes in exchange rates are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   

          The
following table reflects the total foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006:   

41  

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA            

Page    

Abbott Laboratories Financial Statements:  

Consolidated Statement of Earnings  

43  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  

44  

Consolidated Balance Sheet  

45  

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment  

47  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

48  

Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

71  

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

72  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Financial Statements:  

Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income  

74  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  

75  

Consolidated Balance Sheets  

76  

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity  

77  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

78  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

88  

42  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Earnings   (dollars and shares in thousands except per share data)            

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  43  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   (dollars in thousands)            

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  44  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Balance Sheet   (dollars in thousands)            

45  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Consolidated Balance Sheet 
(dollars in thousands)     

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  46  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment   (dollars in thousands except per share data)            

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  47  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            

   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

          NATURE OF BUSINESS   Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products.   

CONCENTRATION
OF RISK AND GUARANTEES   Due to the nature of its operations, Abbott is not subject to significant concentration risks relating to customers, products or
geographic locations, except that three U.S. wholesalers accounted for 25 percent, 23 percent and 24 percent of trade receivables as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. Product warranties are not significant.   

          Abbott
has no material exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements; no special purpose entities; nor activities that include non-exchange-traded contracts
accounted for at fair
value. Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other companies which has resulted in Abbott becoming secondarily
liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other parties, Abbott is unable to develop an estimate of the
maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. Abbott periodically acquires a
business or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain events. In connection with the
spin-off of Hospira, Inc., Abbott has retained liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off and certain potential liabilities, if any, related to alleged
improper pricing practices in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs.   

BASIS
OF CONSOLIDATION   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany
transactions. The accounts of foreign subsidiaries are consolidated as of November 30, due to the time needed to consolidate these subsidiaries. In December 2005, certain foreign subsidiaries
borrowed approximately $1.4 billion. These borrowings and related interest expense have been reflected on the December 31, 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet and 2005 Consolidated Statement
of Earnings. No other events occurred related to these foreign subsidiaries in December 2007, 2006 and 2005 that materially affected the financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

USE
OF ESTIMATES   The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and necessarily include
amounts based on estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for sales rebates, income taxes, pension and other
post-employment benefits, valuation of intangible assets, litigation, share-based compensation, derivative financial instruments, and inventory and accounts receivable exposures.   

          REVENUE
RECOGNITION   Revenue from product sales is recognized upon passage of title and risk of loss to customers. Provisions for discounts, rebates and sales
incentives to customers, and returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the related sales are recorded. Sales incentives to customers are not material. Historical data is readily
available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in gross sales. Revenue from the launch of a new product, from an improved version of an existing product, or for
shipments in excess of a customer's normal requirements are recorded when the conditions noted above are met. In those situations, management records a returns reserve for such revenue, if necessary.
Sales of product rights for marketable products are recorded as revenue upon disposition of the rights. Revenue from license of product rights, or for performance of research or selling activities, is
recorded over the periods earned.   

  48  

Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

          INCOME
TAXES   On January 1, 2007, Abbott adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes." Under this
Interpretation, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest
amount that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit. Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of differences between the tax bases of assets
and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements at the enacted statutory rate to be in effect when the taxes are paid. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of
foreign subsidiaries which are intended to be remitted to the parent company. Deferred income taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries as
working capital and plant and equipment. Interest and penalties on income tax obligations are included in taxes on income.   

          PENSION
AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS   Abbott accrues for the actuarially determined cost of pension and post-employment benefits over the
service attribution periods of the employees. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rate and the expected
return on plan assets. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual return are amortized over a five-year period. Actuarial losses and gains
are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method. On December 31, 2006, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158, "Employers'
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans." This statement requires recognition of the deferrals on the balance sheet with a corresponding charge to Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss). Adoption of this statement on December 31, 2006 resulted in a decrease in Abbott's shareholders' equity of approximately $1.3 billion.   

          FAIR
VALUE MEASUREMENTS   On January 1, 2007, Abbott adopted SFAS No. 157 "Fair Value Measurements." Adoption of the provisions of this standard did not
have a material effect on Abbott's financial position. For assets and liabilities that are measured using quoted prices in active markets, total fair value is the published market price per unit
multiplied by the number of units held without consideration of transaction costs. Assets and liabilities that are measured using significant other observable inputs are valued by reference to similar
assets or liabilities, adjusted for contract restrictions and other terms specific to that asset or liability. For these items, a significant portion of fair value is derived by reference to quoted
prices of similar assets or liabilities in active markets. For all remaining assets and liabilities, fair value is derived using a fair value model, such as a discounted cash flow model or
Black-Scholes model. Purchased intangible assets are recorded at fair value. The fair value of significant purchased intangible assets is based on independent appraisals. Abbott uses a discounted cash
flow model to value intangible assets. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash inflows, risk, the cost of capital, terminal values and market
participants. Intangible assets and goodwill are reviewed for impairment at least on a quarterly and annual basis, respectively.   

SHARE-BASED
COMPENSATION   Through December 31, 2005, Abbott measured compensation cost using the intrinsic value-based method of accounting for stock options
and replacement stock options granted to employees. Restricted stock awards and units have been amortized over their service period with a charge to compensation expense. In 2006, Abbott adopted SFAS
No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," which requires that the fair value of stock options be recorded in the results of operations.   

          LITIGATION  
Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Under SFAS No. 5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable
losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded.   

  49  

Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

CASH,
CASH EQUIVALENTS AND INVESTMENTS   Cash equivalents consist of time deposits and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less. Except
for Abbott's investment in the common stock of Boston Scientific, investments in marketable equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair
value with any unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Beginning on January 1, 2007, the investment in the common stock of
Boston Scientific is accounted for as a trading security with changes in fair value recorded in income. Investments in equity securities that are not traded on public stock exchanges are recorded at
cost. Investments in debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity, as management has both the intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity, and are reported at
cost, net of any unamortized premium or discount. Income relating to these securities is reported as interest income.   

          Abbott
reviews the carrying value of investments in equity securities each quarter to determine whether an other than temporary decline in market value exists. Abbott considers factors
affecting the investee, factors affecting the industry the investee operates in and general equity market trends. Abbott considers the length of time an investment's market value has been below
carrying value and the near-term prospects for recovery to carrying value. When Abbott determines that an other than temporary decline has occurred, the investment is written down with a
charge to Other (income) expense, net.   

          INVENTORIES  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs.   

          PROPERTY
AND EQUIPMENT   Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The following
table shows estimated useful lives of property and equipment:   

PRODUCT
LIABILITY   Abbott accrues for product liability claims, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the
liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. The liabilities are adjusted quarterly as additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries for
product liability claims are recorded as assets, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized. Abbott carries third-party insurance coverage in amounts that reflect
historical loss experience, which does not include coverage for sizable losses.   

          RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS   Internal research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the
contracted work is performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the
milestone results are achieved.   

  50  

Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information      (dollars in thousands)    

In
2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities." SFAS No. 159 allows companies to measure specific financial assets and liabilities at fair value, such as debt or equity investments. The fair value option for the investment in
Boston Scientific common stock was applied effective January 1, 2007. Abbott applied the fair value option to its investment in Boston Scientific stock under SFAS No. 159 because, unlike
its other equity investments, the Boston Scientific stock is not a strategic investment and Abbott is required to dispose of the stock no later than October 2008. Abbott was subject to a limitation on
the amount of shares it may sell in any one month through October 2007 and Abbott will not reacquire the Boston Scientific shares it sells. Accordingly, since at adoption, realized gains or losses
were expected in the near future, the fair value option better represented the near-term expected earnings impact from sales of the stock. Under the fair value option, any cumulative
unrealized gains or losses on an equity investment previously accounted for as an available-for-sale security is recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings
as of the date of adoption of the standard. The pretax and after tax adjustment to Earnings employed in the business upon adoption was $297,000 and $189,000, respectively, and the fair value and
carrying amount of the investment before and after adoption was approximately $1,000,000. The pretax and after tax adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) was $303,000 and
$182,000, respectively. The effect of the adoption on deferred income taxes was not significant.   

          Other
(income) expense, net for 2007 includes a $190,000 fair market value loss adjustment to Abbott's investment in Boston Scientific common stock and a realized gain of $37,000 on the
sales of Boston Scientific common stock. Other (income) expense, net for 2007 and 2006 includes fair value gain   

  51  

Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information      (dollars in thousands)      (Continued)    

  adjustments
of $28,000 and $91,000, respectively, to certain derivative financial instruments included with the investment in Boston Scientific common stock.   

(a)    Accrued
wholesaler chargeback rebates of $156,996, $122,729 and $83,551 at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, are netted in trade receivables because Abbott's
customers are invoiced at a higher catalog price but only remit to Abbott their contract price for the products.    

52  

Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information      (dollars in thousands)      (Continued)    

          On
December 31, 2006, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans." Adoption of this
statement resulted in a decrease in Abbott's shareholders' equity of $1,257,568, net of taxes of approximately $733,000.   

Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures     

          Certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for
anticipated intercompany purchases by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts, totaling $281 million, $768 million and $222 million
at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Abbott records the contracts
at fair value, resulting in a charge of $12 million in 2007 and credits of $16 million and $39 million to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in 2006 and 2005,
respectively. Ineffectiveness recorded in 2007, 2006 or 2005 was not significant. Accumulated gains and losses as of December 31, 2007 will be included in Cost of products sold at the time the
products are sold, generally through the next twelve months.   

          Abbott
enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage currency exposures for foreign currency denominated third-party trade payables and receivables, and for
intercompany loans and trade accounts payable where the receivable or payable is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. For intercompany loans, the contracts
require Abbott to sell or buy foreign currencies, primarily European currencies and Japanese yen, in exchange for primarily U.S. dollars and other European currencies. For intercompany and trade
payables and receivables, the currency exposures are primarily the U.S. dollar, European currencies and Japanese yen. These contracts are recorded at fair value, with the resulting gains or losses
reflected in income as Net foreign exchange (gain) loss. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Abbott held $5.5 billion, $5.6 billion and $3.9 billion, respectively, of such
foreign currency forward exchange contracts.   

          Abbott
has designated approximately $1.7 billion of foreign denominated short-term debt as a hedge of the net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. Accordingly,
changes in the fair value of this debt due to changes in exchange rates are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, resulting in a charge of $72 million to
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in 2007.   

          Abbott
is a party to interest rate hedge contracts totaling $1.5 billion to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of $1.5 billion of fixed-rate debt
due 2009 through 2014. These contracts are designated as fair value hedges of the variability of the fair value of fixed-rate debt due to changes in the long-term benchmark
interest rates. The effect of the hedge is to change a fixed-rate interest obligation to a variable rate for that portion of the debt. Abbott records the contracts at fair value and
adjusts the carrying amount of the
fixed-rate debt by an offsetting amount. No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in income in 2007, 2006 and 2005.   

          Gross
unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities totaled $108 million and $(3) million, respectively, at December 31,
2007; $21 million and $(304) million, respectively, at December 31, 2006 and $18 million and $(4) million, respectively, at December 31, 2005.   

  53  

Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)    

          The
carrying values and fair values of certain financial instruments as of December 31 are shown in the table below. The carrying values of all other financial instruments
approximate their estimated fair values. The counter parties to financial instruments consist of select major international financial institutions. Abbott does not expect any losses from
nonperformance by these counter parties.   

The
following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis in the balance sheet:   

In
2007, adjustments to record a derivative financial instrument liability whose value was derived using significant unobservable inputs resulted in a credit to Other (income) expense,
net, in the amount of $25 million. The value of this derivative financial instrument liability was zero at December 31, 2007.   

  54  

Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits      (dollars in thousands)    

          Retirement plans consist of defined benefit, defined contribution and medical and dental plans. Information for Abbott's major defined benefit plans and
post-employment medical and dental benefit plans is as follows:   

The projected benefit obligations for non-U.S. defined benefit plans was $1,754,000, $1,483,000 and $1,148,000 at December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The accumulated benefit obligations for all defined benefit plans was $4,920,000, $4,738,000 and $4,158,000 at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
For plans where the accumulated benefit obligations exceeded plan assets at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the aggregate accumulated benefit obligations were $697,000, $544,000 and $465,000,   

  55  

Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits      (dollars in thousands)      (Continued)    

respectively;
the projected benefit obligations were $770,000, $592,000 and $508,000, respectively; and the aggregate plan assets were $84,000, $22,000 and $5,000, respectively.   

Other
comprehensive income (loss) for 2007 includes amortization of actuarial losses and prior service cost of $81,110 and $3,573, respectively, and net actuarial gains of $341,408 for
defined benefit plans. Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2007 includes amortization of actuarial losses and prior service credits of $54,727 and $21,550, respectively, and net actuarial gains of
$95,748 for medical and dental plans. The pretax amount of actuarial losses and prior service cost (credits) included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December 31, 2007, that
is expected to be recognized in the net periodic benefit cost in 2008 is $46,100 and $3,800, respectively, for defined benefit pension plans and $42,600 and $(21,500), respectively, for medical and
dental plans.   

          The
weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans as of December 31, the measurement date of the plans,
are as follows:   

The
weighted average assumptions used to determine the net cost for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans are as follows:   

The
assumed health care cost trend rates for medical and dental plans at December 31 were as follows:   

56  

Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits      (dollars in thousands)      (Continued)     

          The
discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The
health care cost trend rates represent Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A
one-percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations as of
December 31, 2007, by $205,600/$(163,500), and the total of the service and interest cost components of net post-employment health care cost for the year then ended by approximately
$28,700/$(22,400).   

          Approximately
70% of Abbott's U.S. defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans assets are invested in equity securities with the remainder invested in primarily fixed income
securities. The investment mix between equity securities and fixed income securities is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher return, more volatile equity securities, and lower
return, less volatile fixed income securities. Abbott's domestic plans are invested in diversified portfolios of public-market equity and fixed income securities. Investment allocations are made
across a range of markets, industry sectors, capitalization sizes, and, in the case of fixed income securities, maturities and credit quality. The plans do not directly hold any securities of Abbott.
Abbott's international defined benefit plans are invested in a corresponding manner, with some variance in portfolio structure around local practices.   

          The
plans' expected return on assets, as shown above, is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying investment
portfolios.
In establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, as well as current economic and capital market conditions.   

          Abbott
funds its domestic pension plans according to IRS funding limitations. In 2007 and 2006, $200,000 was funded to the main domestic pension plan and in 2005, $641,000 was funded to
the main domestic pension plan. International pension plans are funded according to similar regulations. Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic pension plan of $200,000 annually.   

Total
benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which includes payments funded from company assets as well as paid from the plans, are as follows:   

The
Abbott Stock Retirement Plan is the principal defined contribution plan. Abbott's contributions to this plan were $119,000 in 2007, $102,000 in 2006 and $100,000 in 2005.   

          Abbott
provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation plans, to qualifying domestic employees, and accrues for the related cost over the
service lives of the employees.   

   Note 5   Taxes on Earnings      (dollars in thousands)    

Taxes on earnings reflect the annual effective rates, including charges for interest and penalties. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax consequences on future
years of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts. U.S. income taxes are provided on those   

  57  

Note 5   Taxes on Earnings      (dollars in thousands)      (Continued)    

earnings
of foreign subsidiaries which are intended to be remitted to the parent company. Except for taxes on dividends that were remitted under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, Abbott does not
record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries. Undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries as working capital and plant and
equipment aggregated $12,330,000 at December 31, 2007. It is not practicable to determine the amount of deferred income taxes not provided on these earnings. In the U.S., Abbott's federal
income tax returns through 2003 are settled, and the income tax returns for years after 2003 are open. There are numerous other income tax jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none
of which are individually significant. Reserves for interest and penalties are not significant.   

          Earnings
before taxes, and the related provisions for taxes on earnings, were as follows:   

58  

Note 5   Taxes on Earnings      (dollars in thousands)      (Continued)    

          Differences
between the effective income tax rate and the U.S. statutory tax rate were as follows:   

As
of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, total deferred tax assets were $3,582,137, $3,172,933 and $2,040,906, respectively, and total deferred tax liabilities were $1,353,575,
$1,136,964 and $1,355,181, respectively. Valuation allowances for deferred tax assets were not significant. The tax effect of the differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities were
as follows:   

On
January 1, 2007, Abbott adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes." Under this Interpretation, in order to
recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest amount that is more than
50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit. Adoption of this Interpretation did not have a material impact on Abbott's financial position. The following table summarizes
the gross amounts of unrecognized tax benefits without regard to reduction in   

  59  

Note 5   Taxes on Earnings      (dollars in thousands)      (Continued)    

tax
liabilities or additions to deferred tax assets and liabilities if such unrecognized tax benefits were settled:   

The
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate is approximately $890,000. Abbott does not expect significant changes in the
aggregate amount of unrecognized tax benefits that may occur within the next twelve months, other than tax settlements.   

          Among
the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 was a provision that allows for the exclusion from income of a portion of the remittances of earnings of foreign
subsidiaries to U.S. shareholders through December 31, 2005. In 2005, Abbott remitted in accordance with the provisions of the Act approximately $4,300,000 of foreign earnings previously
reinvested indefinitely. The additional income tax expense recorded for the remittance was approximately $245,000.   

   Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information      (dollars in millions)    

          Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products. Abbott's products are generally sold
directly to retailers, wholesalers, hospitals, health care facilities, laboratories, physicians' offices and government agencies throughout the world. Abbott's reportable segments are as follows:   

             Pharmaceutical Products      Worldwide sales of a broad line of pharmaceuticals. For segment reporting purposes, two
pharmaceutical divisions are aggregated and reported as the Pharmaceutical Products segment.   

             Nutritional Products      Worldwide sales of a broad line of adult and pediatric nutritional products.   

Diagnostic Products      Worldwide sales of diagnostic systems and tests for blood banks, hospitals, commercial
laboratories and alternate-care testing sites. For segment reporting purposes, three diagnostic divisions are aggregated and reported as the Diagnostic Products segment.   

             Vascular Products      Worldwide sales of coronary, endovascular and vessel closure products.   

          Abbott's
underlying accounting records are maintained on a legal entity basis for government and public reporting requirements. Segment disclosures are on a performance basis consistent
with internal management reporting. Intersegment transfers of inventory are recorded at standard cost and are not a measure of segment operating earnings. The cost of some corporate functions and the
cost of certain employee benefits are charged to segments at predetermined rates that approximate cost. Remaining costs, if any, are not allocated to segments. Effective in 2007, the Diagnostic
segment was reorganized. Prior years' segment information has been adjusted to reflect this change. For acquisitions prior to 2006, substantially all intangible assets and related amortization are not
allocated to segments. The following segment information has been prepared in accordance with the internal accounting policies of Abbott, as   

  60  

Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information      (dollars in millions)      (Continued)    

described
above, and are not presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied to the consolidated financial statements.   

(a)    Net
sales and operating earnings for 2007 and 2005 were favorably affected by the relatively weaker U.S. dollar and were unfavorably affected by the relatively stronger U.S. dollar in
2006.
      (b)    The
increase in Pharmaceutical Product Segment sales in 2007 is due primarily to the acquisition of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. in December 2006 and the decrease in 2006 is due
primarily to the effects of the termination of a distribution agreement.
      (c)    Additions
to long-term assets for the Pharmaceutical Products segment includes goodwill and intangible assets acquired of $1,590 and $821, respectively, in 2006 and for
the Vascular Products segment includes goodwill and intangible assets acquired of $1,688 and $1,195, respectively, in 2006.
      (d)    The
decrease in the Nutritional Products segment operating earnings in 2007 was primarily due to the completion of the U.S. co-promotion of     Synagis    in 2006.    

(e)    Corporate
functions and benefit plans costs for 2006, includes a philanthropic contribution of $70 to the Abbott Fund.
      (f)    The
increase in share-based compensation in 2007 is partially due to the granting of replacement stock options as a result of the increase in the market value of Abbott common stock.
Abbott adopted FASB No. 123 (revised 2004) "Share-Based Payment" on January 1, 2006.    
  61  

Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information      (dollars in millions)      (Continued)    

(g)    Other,
net for 2007 includes $197 for restructuring plans; $256 for acquisition integration and related costs primarily associated with the acquisitions of Guidant's vascular
intervention and endovascular solutions and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. and a $190 fair market value loss adjustment to Abbott's investment in Boston Scientific common stock. Other, net for 2006
includes $281 for restructuring plans; $220 for acquisition integration and related costs primarily associated with the acquisition of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions.
Other, net for 2005 includes $266 for restructuring and impairment charges.    

(h)    Sales
by country are based on the country that sold the product.    

   Note 7   Litigation and Environmental Matters     

          Abbott has been identified as a potentially responsible party for investigation and cleanup costs at a number of locations in the United States and Puerto Rico
under federal and state remediation laws and is investigating potential contamination at a number of company-owned locations. Abbott has recorded an estimated cleanup cost for each site for which
management believes Abbott has a probable loss exposure. No individual site cleanup exposure is expected to exceed $3 million, and the aggregate cleanup exposure is not expected to exceed
$15 million.   

          There
are a number of patent disputes with third parties who claim Abbott's products infringe their patents. In one of those disputes, filed in April 2007, Abbott is unable to estimate a
range of possible loss, if any, and no reserve has been recorded. Abbott's acquisition of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. resulted in the assumption of various cases and investigations and Abbott has
recorded reserves related to several of those cases and investigations.   

  62  

Note 7   Litigation and Environmental Matters (Continued)    

          There
are several civil actions pending brought by individuals or entities that allege generally that Abbott and numerous pharmaceutical companies reported false or misleading pricing
information relating to the average wholesale price of certain pharmaceutical products in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement. Civil actions have also been brought against Abbott,
and in some cases other members of the pharmaceutical industry, by state attorneys general seeking to recover alleged damages on behalf of state Medicaid programs. In May 2006, Abbott was notified
that the U.S. Department of Justice intervened in a civil whistle-blower lawsuit alleging that Abbott inflated prices for Medicaid and Medicare reimbursable drugs. The outcome of these investigations
and litigation could include the imposition of fines or penalties. Abbott has recorded reserves for its estimated losses in a few of the cases, however, Abbott is unable to estimate the range or
amount of possible loss for the majority of the cases, and no loss reserves have been recorded for them. Many of the products involved in these cases are Hospira products. Hospira, Abbott's former
hospital products business, was spun off to Abbott's shareholders in 2004. Abbott retained liability for losses that result from these cases and investigations to the extent any such losses both
relate to the sale of Hospira's products prior to the spin-off of Hospira and relate to allegations that were made in such pending and future cases and investigations that were the same as
allegations existing at the date of the spin-off.   

          Within
the next year, legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by Abbott. For its legal proceedings and environmental exposures, except
as noted in the second and third paragraphs of this footnote, Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $110 million to $325 million. The recorded reserve
balance at December 31, 2007 for these proceedings and exposures was approximately $165 million. These reserves represent management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies."   

          While
it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all such proceedings and exposures with certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material
adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations, except for the cases and investigations discussed in the third paragraph of this footnote, the resolution of which
could be material to cash flows or results of operations for a quarter.   

Note 8   Incentive Stock Program     

          The 1996 Incentive Stock Program authorizes the granting of stock options, replacement stock options, stock appreciation rights, limited stock appreciation
rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance units and foreign qualified benefits. Stock options, replacement stock options and restricted stock awards and units comprise the
majority of benefits that have been granted and are currently outstanding under this program. In 2007, Abbott granted 20,263,311 stock options, 16,696,463 replacement stock options, 1,556,770 (net of
forfeitures of 87,400) restricted stock awards and 649,530 (net of forfeitures of 23,600) restricted stock units under the program. The purchase price of shares under option must be at least equal to
the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant, and the maximum term of an option is 10 years. Options vest equally over three years except for replacement options, which vest
in six months. Options granted before January 1, 2005 included a replacement feature. Except for options outstanding that have a replacement feature, options granted after December 31,
2004 do not include a replacement feature. When an employee tenders mature shares to Abbott upon exercise of a stock option, a replacement stock option may be granted equal to the amount of shares
tendered. Replacement options are granted at the then current market price for a term that expires on the date of the underlying option grant. Upon a change in control of Abbott, all outstanding stock
options become fully exercisable, and all terms and conditions of all restricted stock awards and units are deemed satisfied. Restricted stock awards granted in 2007 and 2006 generally vest between 3
and 5 years and for restricted   

  63  

Note 8   Incentive Stock Program (Continued)    

stock
awards that vest over 5 years, no more than one-third of the award vests in any one year upon Abbott reaching a minimum return on equity target. Restricted stock units granted
in 2007 and 2006 vest over three years and upon vesting, the recipient receives one share of Abbott stock for each vested restricted stock unit. The aggregate fair market value of restricted stock
awards and units is recognized as expense over the service period. Restricted stock awards and settlement of vested restricted stock units are issued out of treasury shares. Abbott issues new shares
for exercises of stock options. Abbott does not have a policy of purchasing its shares relating to its share-based programs. At January 1, 2008, approximately 51 million shares were
reserved for future grants under the 1996 Program. Subsequent to year-end, the Board of Directors granted approximately 22 million stock options and restricted stock awards and
units from this reserve.   

          The
number of restricted stock awards and units outstanding and the weighted-average grant-date fair value at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007 was
3,830,728 and $45.31 and 3,740,341 and $49.04, respectively. The number of restricted stock awards and units, and the weighted-average grant-date fair value, that were granted, vested and
lapsed during 2007 were 2,317,300 and $52.73, 2,156,091 and $46.54 and 251,596 and $47.58, respectively. The fair market
value of restricted stock awards and units vested in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $114,170,000, $32,226,000 and $12,949,000, respectively.   

The
aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2007 was $1.2 billion and $882 million, respectively. The total intrinsic value
of options exercised in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $613 million, $205 million and $189 million, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost related to all share-based
compensation plans at December 31, 2007 amounted to approximately $250 million which is expected to be recognized over the next three years.   

          On
January 1, 2006, Abbott adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," which requires that the fair
value of share-based awards be recorded in the results of operations. Abbott used the modified prospective method of adoption. Under this method, prior years' financial results do not include the
impact of recording stock options using fair value. Under the revised standard, awards issued after 2005 and the remainder of any unrecognized cost for grants issued prior to 2006 are charged to
expense. Total non-cash compensation expense charged against income in 2007 and 2006 for share-based plans totaled approximately $430 million and $330 million, respectively,
and the tax benefit recognized was approximately $142 million and $78 million, respectively. Compensation cost capitalized as part of inventory is not significant.   

Through
December 31, 2005, Abbott measured compensation cost using the intrinsic value-based method of accounting for stock options and replacement options granted to employees.
Had compensation cost been determined using the fair value-based accounting method in 2005, pro forma net income would have been $3.2 billion, basic earnings per share would have been $2.04,
and diluted earnings per share would have been $2.02.   

  64  

Note 8   Incentive Stock Program (Continued)     

The
fair value of an option granted in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $12.88, $11.72 and $12.17, respectively. The fair value of an option grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

The
risk-free interest rate is based on the rates available at the time of the grant for zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the
option's expected life. The average life of an option granted in 2007 and 2006 is based on both historical and projected exercise and lapsing data. Prior to 2006, the average life of an option granted
was based on historical experience. Expected volatility for 2007 and 2006 option grants is based on implied volatilities from traded options on Abbott's stock and historical volatility of Abbott's
stock over the expected life of the option. Expected volatility for options granted prior to 2006 was based on historical volatility over a period prior to the option grant equal to the option's
expected life. Dividend yield is based on the option's exercise price and annual dividend rate at the time of grant.   

   Note 9   Debt and Lines of Credit      (dollars in thousands)    

          The following is a summary of long-term debt at December 31:   

65  

Note 9   Debt and Lines of Credit      (dollars in thousands)      (Continued)    

          Principal
payments required on long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2007, are $857,454 in 2008, $1,003,619 in 2009, $138,218 in 2010, $2,001,958
in 2011, $1,000,390 in 2012 and $5,281,102 thereafter.   

          At
December 31, 2007, Abbott had $3,000,000 of unused lines of credit, which support commercial paper borrowing arrangements. The unused lines of credit expire in 2012. Related
compensating balances, which are subject to withdrawal by Abbott at its option, and commitment fees are not material. Abbott's weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings was
3.7% at December 31, 2007, 5.0% at December 31, 2006 and 1.3% at December 31, 2005.   

   Note 10   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions     

In December 2006, Abbott acquired Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. for cash of approximately $3.8 billion, net of cash held by Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc., to
expand Abbott's presence in the lipid management market and to provide several on-market and late-stage pipeline products. Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. was a specialty
pharmaceutical company that developed and marketed proprietary medications for the treatment of chronic cardiovascular, metabolic and respiratory diseases. This business was acquired on
December 13, 2006 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. The acquisition was financed primarily with
short-term debt. The allocation of the purchase price resulted in a charge of $1.3 billion for acquired in-process research and development, intangible assets of
$821 million, goodwill (primarily non-deductible) of $1.6 billion and net liabilities, primarily deferred income taxes recorded at acquisition of $331 million.
Acquired intangible assets are being amortized over 4 to 15 years. Non-deductible acquired in-process research and development was charged to income in 2006.   

          A
substantial amount of the acquired in-process research and development charge relating to the Kos acquisition related primarily to cholesterol treatment drugs. The research
efforts ranged from 70 percent to 80 percent complete at the date of acquisition. The valuation method used to fair value the projects was the Multi-period Excess Earnings Method (Income
Approach) and the risk-adjusted discount rate used was 16 percent. In developing assumptions for the valuation model, comparable Abbott products or products marketed by competitors
were used to estimate pricing, margins and expense levels. As of December 31, 2007, one drug was approved for marketing in the U.S. and the remaining research efforts were primarily on
schedule. The estimated projected costs to complete the projects totaled approximately $75 million as of December 31, 2007 with anticipated product launches from 2008 through 2010. There
have been no significant changes in the development plans for the acquired incomplete projects. Significant net cash inflows will commence with the launches of the products.   

          In
order to expand Abbott's presence in the growing vascular market, Abbott acquired Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses on April 21, 2006 for
approximately $4.1 billion, in cash, in connection with Boston Scientific's acquisition of Guidant. In addition, Abbott will also pay to Boston Scientific $250 million each upon
government approvals to market the    Xience V    drug-eluting stent in the U.S. and in Japan. Government approvals are anticipated in 2008 for
the U.S. and in 2009 for Japan. Each $250 million payment will result in the recording of additional goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price resulted in a charge of $665 million
for acquired in-process research and development, intangible assets of $1.2 billion, goodwill (primarily deductible) of $1.7 billion and tangible net assets of
$580 million. Acquired intangible assets
are being amortized over 4 to 15 years. Deductible acquired in-process research and development was charged to income in 2006. The net tangible assets acquired consist primarily of
property and equipment of approximately $530 million, trade accounts receivable of approximately $250 million and inventories of approximately $120 million, net of assumed
liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, litigation reserves and other liabilities.   

  66  

Note 10   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions (Continued)    

A
substantial amount of the acquired in-process research and development charge relating to the Guidant acquisition related to drug eluting and bioabsorbable stents. The
research efforts ranged from 35 percent to 85 percent complete at the date of acquisition. The valuation method used to fair value the projects was the Multi-period Excess Earnings
Method (Income Approach) and the risk-adjusted discount rates used ranged from 16 percent to 25 percent. In developing assumptions for the valuation model, comparable Abbott
products or products marketed by competitors were used to estimate pricing, margins and expense levels. As of December 31, 2007, the research efforts were primarily on schedule. The estimated
projected costs to complete totaled approximately $390 million as of December 31, 2007, with anticipated product launch dates from 2008 through 2013. There have been no significant
changes in the development plans for the acquired incomplete projects. Significant net cash inflows will commence within one to two years after product launch.   

          In
order to facilitate Boston Scientific's acquisition of Guidant, Abbott also acquired 64.6 million shares of Boston Scientific common stock directly from Boston Scientific and
loaned $900 million to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific. The common stock was valued at $1.3 billion and the note receivable was valued at $829 million at the
acquisition date. In connection with the acquisition of the shares, Boston Scientific is entitled to certain after-tax gains upon Abbott's sale of the shares. In addition, Boston
Scientific agreed to reimburse Abbott for certain borrowing costs on debt incurred to acquire the Boston Scientific shares. Abbott recorded a net derivative financial instruments liability of
$59 million for the gain-sharing derivative financial instrument liability and the interest derivative financial instrument asset. The effect of recording the shares, the loan to
Boston Scientific and the derivative financial instruments at fair value on the date of acquisition resulted in the recording of additional goodwill of approximately $204 million. Changes in
the fair value of the derivative financial instruments, net are recorded in Other (income) expense, net.   

          In
2005, Abbott acquired the remaining interest in a small medical products company and a less than 50 percent equity interest in a small medical products company for
$25 million. In 2005, Abbott also acquired additional rights related to    HUMIRA    for approximately $270 million, which are being amortized
over 13 years.   

          Had
the above acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have been significantly different from reported amounts.   

   Note 11   Goodwill and Intangible Assets      (dollars in millions)    

          Abbott recorded goodwill of $53, $3,721 and $69 in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to acquisitions. Goodwill adjustments recorded in 2007 allocated to
the Pharmaceutical Products segment amounted to $194 and goodwill allocated to the Vascular Products segment amounted to $(141). Acquired goodwill allocated to the Pharmaceutical Products segment
amounted to $1,590 in 2006 and goodwill allocated to the Vascular Products segment amounted to $1,688 in 2006. Foreign currency translation and other adjustments increased (decreased) goodwill in
2007, 2006 and 2005 by    $   627, $509 and $(535), respectively. The amount of goodwill related to reportable segments at December 31, 2007 was $6,221
for the Pharmaceutical Products segment, $210 for the Nutritional Products segment, $261 for the Diagnostic Products segment, and $2,086 for the Vascular Products segment. There were no reductions of
goodwill relating to impairments or disposal of all or a portion of a business.   

          The
gross amount of amortizable intangible assets, primarily product rights and technology, was $9,043, $8,988 and $6,776 as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and
accumulated amortization was $3,323, $2,602 and $2,053 as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The estimated annual amortization expense for intangible assets is $710 in 2008,
2009 and 2010; $690 in 2011 and $680 in 2012. Intangible assets are amortized over 4 to 25 years (average 11 years).   

  67  

Note 12   Equity Method Investments      (dollars in millions)    

Abbott's 50 percent-owned joint venture, TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (TAP), is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The
investment in TAP was $159, $162 and $167 at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and dividends received from TAP were $502, $487 and $343 in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Abbott performs certain administrative and manufacturing services for TAP at negotiated rates that approximate fair value. Summarized financial information for TAP is as follows:   

Undistributed
earnings of investments accounted for under the equity method amounted to approximately $136 as of December 31, 2007.   

   Note 13   Restructuring Plans      (dollars in millions)    

          In 2007, 2006 and 2005, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical and vascular manufacturing operations and selected domestic and
international commercial and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, Abbott recorded pretax charges against earnings of approximately $107, $210 and $256,
respectively, reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $94, $181 and $174, respectively, is classified as
cost of products sold, $3, $29 and $10, respectively, as research and development and $10 in 2007 and $72 in 2005 as selling, general and administrative. Fair value for the determination of the amount
of asset impairments was determined primarily based on a discounted cash flow method. An additional $90, $70 and $14 were subsequently recorded in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, relating to these
restructurings, primarily for accelerated depreciation. In addition, Abbott implemented facilities restructuring plans in 2007 related to the acquired operations of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
which resulted in an increase to goodwill of approximately $52.   

  68  

Note 13   Restructuring Plans      (dollars in millions)      (Continued)    

          The
following summarizes the activity for restructurings:   

Abbott
expects to incur up to an additional $73 in future periods for restructuring plans, primarily for accelerated depreciation.   

  69  

Note 14   Quarterly Results (Unaudited)      (dollars in millions except per share data)    

(a)    The
sum of the quarters' basic earnings per share for 2007 and 2006 do not add to the full year earnings per share amounts due to rounding.
      (b)    The
sum of the quarters' diluted earnings per share for 2006 does not add to the full year earnings per share amount due to rounding.
      (c)    Second
quarter 2006 includes a pretax charge of $493 for acquired in-process and collaborations research and development.
      (d)    Third
quarter 2006 includes a pretax charge of $214 for acquired in-process research and development and 2005 includes pretax restructuring charges of $201.
      (e)    Fourth
quarter 2006 includes a pretax charge of $1,307 for acquired in-process and collaborations research and development.    
  70  

Management Report on Internal Control 
Over Financial Reporting     

          The management of Abbott Laboratories is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Abbott's internal
control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company's management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.   

          All
internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.   

          Abbott's
management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. In making this assessment, it used the criteria
set forth in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2007, the company's internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.   

          Abbott's
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on their assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting.
This report appears on page 73.   

  Miles
D. White 
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

  Thomas
C. Freyman 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

Greg
W. Linder 
VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER   

  February 14,
2008   

  71  

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' investment, and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   

          We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

          In
our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 and
the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.   

          As
discussed in Notes 1, 2, 4, and 8 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for fair value measurements to adopt Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 157,    Fair Value Measurements,    and adopted the fair value option under SFAS No. 159,     The Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities,    for certain investments in 2007, and the Company changed its method of accounting
for pension and other post employment benefits and share-based payments to adopt SFAS No. 158,    Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans   , and SFAS No. 123(R),    Share-Based Payment,    in 2006.   

          We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in    Internal Control-Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 14, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 
Chicago, Illinois 
February 14, 2008   

  72  

To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in     Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or
persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

          Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to
future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

          In
our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in     Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   

          We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2007 and our report dated February 14, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph regarding
the Company's adoption of new accounting standards.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 
Chicago, Illinois 
February 14, 2008   

  73  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.              Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income   (dollars in thousands)            

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  74  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   (dollars in thousands)            

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  75  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.              Consolidated Balance Sheets   (in thousands, except share amount)            

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  76  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.              Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity   Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005   (dollars in thousands, except share amounts)     

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  77  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.     

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005   (dollars in thousands)            

   Note 1. Description of the Business     

          TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and subsidiaries (TAP) is a Delaware corporation owned equally by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott), an Illinois
corporation, and Takeda America Holdings, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., a Japanese corporation (collectively Takeda). TAP is headquartered in
Lake Forest, Illinois and has approximately 3,000 employees. Under an agreement between Abbott and Takeda, TAP develops, markets and sells human pharmaceutical products in the United States,
Puerto Rico, and Canada. TAP operates as one business segment with sales primarily in the United States.   

          TAP's
primary products are    Prevacid    and    Lupron   . The principal indications for     Prevacid    (lansoprazole), a proton
pump inhibitor, are for short-term treatment of duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers and erosive
esophagitis.    Lupron    (leuprolide acetate), a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone
(LH-RH) analog, and    Lupron Depot   , a sustained release form of    Lupron   , are used principally
for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids.   

          The
patents related to lansoprazole and    Lupron Depot    are material to the operation of TAP's business. The original United States compound
patent covering lansoprazole is licensed by TAP from Takeda. The original United States patents covering the    Lupron Depot    formulations are licensed by
TAP from Takeda.   

          TAP's
products are generally sold directly to physicians, retailers, wholesalers, health care facilities, and government agencies. In most cases, they are distributed from Abbott-owned
distribution centers. Primary marketing efforts are directed toward securing the prescription of TAP's brand of products by physicians. Managed care purchasers (for example, health maintenance
organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) are increasingly important customers.   

TAP's
products are supplied by its owners, principally Takeda. A disruption in the supply of these products could adversely impact the operating results of TAP. Sales of TAP's primary
products are as follows:   

In 2007, TAP received a total of $147,925 to resolve litigation relating to alleged infringement of a    Lupron Depot   
patent. In 2006 and 2005, TAP recognized revenue for milestone payments related to the 2005 license of the    Prevacid    trademark, certain patents and
technical information to a third party for the over-the-counter sale of    Prevacid    in the United States.   

          Financial
instruments that potentially subject TAP to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of accounts receivable. TAP sells primarily to wholesale distributors and a majority
of TAP's accounts   

  78  

Note 1. Description of the Business (Continued)    

receivable
are derived from sales to wholesale distributors. Three U.S. wholesale distributors accounted for more than 10% of TAP's gross sales as follows:   

TAP has no material exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements; nor special purpose entities; nor activities that include
non-exchange-traded contracts accounted for at fair value, except for the equity swap agreements that hedge market price exposure for employee stock options as described in Note 6.   

   Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

          BASIS OF PRESENTATION   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of TAP and all of its subsidiaries. All intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated.   

          USE
OF ESTIMATES   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates include amounts for income taxes, sales rebates, other post-employment
benefits, litigation, share-based compensation, derivative financial instruments, inventory reserves and accounts receivable allowances.   

          CASH
AND CASH EQUIVALENTS   Cash equivalents include time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, money market funds and other short-term
investments in governmental agency debt securities with original maturities of three months or less, or which are contractually convertible to cash in three months or less.   

          INVESTMENT
SECURITIES   Investments in equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any
unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). TAP monitors equity investments for other than temporary declines in fair value and charges
impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs. Investments in debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity, as management has
both the intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity, and are reported at cost, net of any unamortized premium or discount. Income relating to these securities is reported as interest
income.   

          INVENTORIES  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and packaging costs.
Inventories consist of the following as of December 31:   

79  

Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

          PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT   Property and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful lives of property and equipment are as follows:   

Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable
based on projected undiscounted cash flows associated with the affected assets. If the fair value is less than the carrying value of the asset, a loss is recognized for the difference. Fair value is
determined based on market quotes, if available, or is based on valuation techniques.   

          REVENUE
RECOGNITION   Revenue from product sales is recognized upon passage of title and risk of loss to customers (when product is delivered to a common carrier).
Revenue from license of product rights is recorded over the periods earned. Provisions for estimated rebates and sales incentives to customers, doubtful accounts, cash discounts, product returns and
customer chargebacks are provided for in the period the related sales are recorded. Rebates and sales incentives are recorded as accrued rebates in the balance sheets. Reserves for doubtful accounts,
cash discounts, product returns and customer chargebacks are recorded as reductions to accounts receivable. Historical data is readily available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of
the reduction in gross sales.   

          RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT   Internal research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the
contracted work is performed. Where milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results
are achieved.   

          ADVERTISING
AND PROMOTION EXPENSE   All advertising and promotion costs are expensed as Selling, general and administrative expenses when incurred. Total advertising
and promotion expense incurred was $126,482, $186,052 and $203,375 for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

          INCOME
TAXES   Deferred income taxes are recognized for the tax consequences of temporary differences by applying statutory tax rates applicable to future years to
differences between the financial statement carrying amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities.   

          RECENT
ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS   In 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements." The standard provides guidance for using fair value to
measure assets and liabilities. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. TAP has not yet assessed the impact, if any, that the implementation of this
standard will have on its consolidated results of operations or financial condition.   

  80  

Note 3. Property and Equipment and Lease Obligations     

          Property and equipment consists of the following at December 31:   

TAP leases certain administrative and regional sales offices, equipment, and automobiles under non-cancelable leases which expire at various dates
through 2013. Operating lease expense totaled $4,939, $4,688 and $5,153 for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating and capital
leases as of December 31, 2007 consist of the following:   

Note 4. Financial Instruments and Derivatives     

          TAP enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge purchases of inventories at fixed Yen-denominated prices. The forward contracts require
TAP to purchase Yen in exchange for U.S. dollars at pre-determined exchange rates and are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of cash flows due to changes in exchange rates.
TAP does not trade financial instruments with the objective of earning financial gains on the exchange rate fluctuations alone, nor does it trade in currencies or commodities for which there are no
underlying exposures.   

          The
effective portion of the changes in value of the forward contracts is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), and is subsequently recognized in earnings in the
same period the hedged
forecasted transactions affect earnings. Any cash flow hedge ineffectiveness is reported in earnings in the current period.   

          TAP
had outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts with notional values of $16,349 and $176,509 and fair values of $131 and $(2,049) at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. The fair value adjustments of these contracts are recorded as prepaid expenses and accrued liabilities at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. During 2007, 2006 and 2005 cash
flow hedge ineffectiveness was not material.   

   Note 5. Employee Benefit Plans     

          TAP employees participate in various Abbott employee benefit plans, including the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan, the Abbott Laboratories Stock
Retirement Plan, and the Abbott Laboratories Incentive Stock Program (see Note 6 for further details). TAP is billed for its share of the   

  81  

Note 5. Employee Benefit Plans (Continued)    

costs
of these plans. TAP's share of the employer contribution to the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan is generally allocated based on TAP's proportionate share of the total compensation
expense of all participants in the plan. TAP made contributions to the plan of $16,000 in 2007, 2006 and 2005. TAP's contribution to the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan is based on
participating employee contributions. TAP's contributions for 2007, 2006, and 2005 were $14,093, $12,989 and $12,619, respectively.   

TAP
provides health and welfare benefits to its employees through the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Healthcare Plan. Contributions to the Plan are made in accordance
with TAP's funding policy. TAP provides certain medical and life insurance benefits to qualifying retirees through the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Retiree Medical Plan. The
following provides a reconciliation of the post-employment benefit obligations and funded status of the Plan:   

The pretax amount of actuarial losses and prior service credits included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December 31, 2007 that is
expected to be recognized in the net periodic benefit cost in 2008 are $280 and $(401), respectively.   

  82  

Note 5. Employee Benefit Plans (Continued)    

On
December 31, 2007, TAP adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans." The provisions of this
standard require the immediate recognition of deferrals on the balance sheet with a corresponding charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   

          The
discount rates used to determine benefit obligations for medical and dental plans as of December 31, the measurement date for the plan, were 6.65 percent in 2007 and
5.9 percent in 2006. The discount rates used to determine net cost for medical and dental plans were 5.9 percent in 2007, 5.75 percent in 2006 and 5.8 percent in 2005.   

The
assumed health care cost trend rates for medical and dental plans at December 31 were as follows:   

A one-percentage point increase (decrease) in the assumed health care trend rate would increase (decrease) the accumulated post-employment
benefit obligations as of December 31, 2007 by approximately $7,422 and $(5,666), respectively, and the total of the service and interest cost components of net post-employment
benefit cost for the year then ended by approximately $1,687 and $(1,253), respectively.   

          Total
benefit payments expected to be paid to participants from company assets for post-employment medical and dental benefits are as follows:   

Note 6. Incentive Stock Program     

          Certain employees of TAP are granted options to purchase Abbott common stock under the 1996 Abbott Incentive Stock Program. Stock options and replacement stock
options granted to TAP employees are currently outstanding under this program. The purchase price of shares under option must be at least equal to the fair market value of the Abbott common stock on
the date of grant, and the maximum term of an option is 10 years. Options granted vest equally over three years except for replacement options, which generally vest in six months and have a
life equal to the remaining life of the replaced option. In addition, beginning in 2006, certain employees of TAP are granted restricted stock units in Abbott stock. Restricted stock units granted
vest over three years and upon vesting, the recipient receives one share of Abbott stock for each vested restricted stock unit. Upon a change in control of Abbott, all outstanding stock options and
restricted stock units become fully exercisable.   

          All
option exercises and restricted stock vesting are transacted with Abbott. TAP is liable for the excess of the market value of the option shares granted to TAP employees while
employed at TAP over the option price at the time of exercise and the market value of the Abbott stock at the time of vesting of   

  83  

Note 6. Incentive Stock Program (Continued)    

restricted
stock units and reimburses Abbott annually for the cost of options exercised and the restricted stock units vested during the year.   

          TAP
accounted for stock options issued under the Abbott Incentive Stock Program in accordance with EITF No. 02-08 in 2005. On January 1, 2006, TAP adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," using the modified prospective method. The adoption of the provisions of this statement had no effect on TAP's financial
statements. TAP's liability for options granted was $92,108 and $66,231 at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Changes in the fair value of these options are recorded as Selling, general
and administrative expense. The weighted average fair value of an option granted in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $14.02, $11.83 and $12.88, respectively. The fair value of an option granted was estimated
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

The fair value of an option as of December 31 was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

The risk-free interest rate is based on the rates available at the measurement date for U.S. government treasury STRIPS with a remaining term equal to
the option's expected life. The average life of an option granted in 2007 and 2006 is based on both historical and projected exercise and lapsing data. Prior to 2006, the average life of an option
granted was based on historical experience. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility over a period prior to the measurement date equal to the option's expected life. Dividend yield is
based on the option's exercise price and annual dividend rate at the time of grant.   

          The
following summarizes stock option activity for 2007:   

The aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2007 was $76,006 and $56,231, respectively. The total intrinsic value
of options exercised was $33,705 and $8,500 in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost related to all share-based   

  84  

Note 6. Incentive Stock Program (Continued)    

compensation
plans at December 31, 2007 amounted to approximately $11,686 which is expected to be recognized over the next three years.   

          As
of December 31, 2007 and 2006, TAP has recorded a liability for exercised options of $25,990 and $7,567, respectively, as a payable to Abbott. TAP also has recorded a liability
for options issued before the adoption of EITF No. 02-08 for the difference between the market value and strike price of vested yet unexercised options of $20,838 and $15,761 as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Total expense (income) related to the Abbott Incentive Stock Program of $59,549, $49,489 and $(12,553) was recorded as Selling, general and
administrative expense in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of income tax benefit realized from stock options exercised in 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to $7,654, $2,236 and $2,407,
respectively.   

          The
number of restricted stock units outstanding and the weighted-average grant date fair value at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was 43,791 and $49.17 and 26,400 and $44.16,
respectively. The number of restricted stock units and the weighted-average grant-date fair value that were granted and vested during 2007 were 26,200 and $52.54 and 8,809 and $44.16,
respectively. There were no restricted stock units that lapsed during 2007. The fair value of restricted stock units that vested in 2007 was $464.   

Due
to the significant impact of fluctuations in the market price of Abbott common stock on the amount of recorded compensation expense of options issued under the Abbott Incentive Stock
Program, TAP entered into an ISDA Master Agreement (Master Agreement), dated September 29, 2000, which allows TAP to enter into equity swap transactions to hedge this market price exposure.
Each equity swap transaction guarantees a return equal to the actual return on a specified number of shares of Abbott common stock and, as such, effectively acts as a hedge of the Abbott Incentive
Stock Program. From time to time, TAP enters into equity swap transactions under the Master Agreement. Each transaction has a term of one to three years and requires quarterly cash settlement
resulting in all gains and losses being realized and recorded in the statements of income. Each transaction requires on-going quarterly interest payments based on the equity notional
amount, or the fair value of Abbott common stock shares swapped under each transaction at the date of the swap at a rate of LIBOR plus 114 basis points or 100 basis points for transactions prior to
October 2003. Each equity swap transaction is recorded at fair value. The fair value of equity swaps was $(10,593) and $811 as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and is recorded as
Accrued liabilities and Prepaid expenses and other assets in the balance sheets for 2007 and 2006, respectively. For 2007, 2006 and 2005, TAP
recorded as Selling, general and administrative expenses $(39,674), $(47,554) and $27,945, respectively, of (gain) loss related to the equity swap investments.   

Note 7. Income Taxes     

          Taxes on earnings reflect the annual effective rates, including charges for interest and penalties. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax consequences on future
years of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts.   

          TAP's
U.S. income tax liabilities for years 2001 and 2004 through 2006 are subject to final determination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The IRS has challenged the deductibility
of an item in TAP's 2001 tax return. Management believes its deduction is proper and expects the ultimate resolution will not have a material impact on TAP's financial position or results of
operations.   

  85  

Note 7. Income Taxes (Continued)    

          The
provision for income taxes includes the following components:   

Differences between the effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory tax rate were as follows:   

As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, total deferred tax assets were $147,566 and $141,308, respectively, and total deferred tax liabilities were $9,686 and
$7,139, respectively. The tax effect of the differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:   

On January 1, 2007, TAP adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes." Under this
Interpretation, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest
amount that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the   

  86  

Note 7. Income Taxes (Continued)    

benefit.
Adoption of this Interpretation did not have a material impact on TAP's financial position. The following summarizes the activity for the unrecognized tax benefits:   

The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate is approximately $79,000. TAP does not expect significant
changes in the aggregate amount of unrecognized tax benefits that may occur within the next twelve months. Reserves for interest and penalties are not significant.   

   Note 8. Litigation and Related Matters     

          There are several civil actions pending brought by individuals or entities that allege generally that TAP and numerous pharmaceutical companies reported false or
misleading pricing information relating to the average wholesale price of certain pharmaceutical products in connection with federal, state and
private reimbursement. Civil actions have also been brought against TAP and other members of the pharmaceutical industry, by state attorneys general seeking to recover alleged damages on behalf of
state Medicaid programs. The outcome of these investigations and litigation could include the imposition of fines and penalties. TAP is unable to estimate the amount of possible loss, and no loss
reserves have been recorded for these exposures.   

          Within
the next year, other legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by TAP. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such
pending claims, proceedings and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion, except as noted in the paragraph above, that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse
effect on TAP's financial position, cash flows or results of operations.   

   Note 9. Related-Party Transactions     

          Various agreements exist among TAP, Abbott and Takeda and subsidiaries. All amounts due from and payable to Abbott and Takeda and subsidiaries have been reflected
in the balance sheets in the captions Receivable from Abbott, Receivable from Takeda and subsidiaries, Payable to Abbott, and Payable to Takeda and subsidiaries.   

TAP
purchases all    Lupron    and    Prevacid    unpackaged finished goods inventories from Takeda
and subsidiaries. Purchases are contracted at fixed Yen-denominated prices. The amount paid to Takeda and subsidiaries for purchases of these inventories in 2007, 2006 and 2005, totaled
$488,160, $609,436 and $753,096, respectively. TAP has royalty agreements with Takeda and subsidiaries for sales of    Lupron    and     Prevacid   . For 2007, 2006 and
2005, TAP recorded royalty expense of $163,572, $179,770 and $173,878, respectively. Beginning in 2007, TAP
co-promotes certain Takeda and subsidiaries' products. TAP recognized co-promotion revenue relating to this agreement of $79,422 in 2007.   

TAP
pays Abbott for services related to packaging and warehousing, research and development and administrative functions. Amounts incurred for these services totaled $53,967, $60,425 and
$59,969 for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, Abbott purchased, for international markets, TAP's products for $93,437, $84,515 and $75,295 in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

  87  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.:   

  We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related
consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements based on our audits.   

  We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not
for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

  In
our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 
Chicago, Illinois 
February 1, 2008   

  88  

ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE            

          None.   

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES            

   Disclosure Controls and Procedures     

           Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.       The Chief Executive Officer, Miles D. White, and the Chief Financial
Officer, Thomas C. Freyman, evaluated the effectiveness of Abbott Laboratories' disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and concluded that Abbott
Laboratories' disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information Abbott is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by Abbott in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Abbott's management, including its principal executive
officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   

   Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

           Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting.       Management's report on Abbott's internal control
over financial reporting is included on page 71 hereof. The report of Abbott's independent registered public accounting firm related to their assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting is included on page 73 hereof.   

           Changes in internal control over financial reporting.       During the quarter ended December 31, 2007, there were no
changes in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting.   

ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION            

          None.   

  89  

PART III            

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE            

          Incorporated herein by reference are "Information Concerning Nominees for Directors," "Committees of the Board of Directors," "Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance," and "Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting" to be included in the 2008 Abbott Laboratories Proxy
Statement. The 2008 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 19, 2008. Also incorporated herein by reference is the text found under the caption, "Executive Officers of the Registrant"
on pages 20 through 22 hereof.   

          Abbott
has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer and controller. That code is part of
Abbott's code of business conduct which is available free of charge through Abbott's investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com) and is available in print to any shareholder who sends a
request for a paper copy to: Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Dept. 362, AP6D2, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6048, attn. Investor Relations. Abbott intends to include on its
website (www.abbott.com) any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of its code of ethics that applies to Abbott's principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting
officer and controller that relates to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K.   

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION            

          The material to be included in the 2008 Proxy Statement under the headings "Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and "Compensation Committee Report"
is incorporated herein by reference. The 2008 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 19, 2008.   

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS            

(a)     Equity Compensation Plan Information      

(1)  
      
    Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program.       Benefits under the Program include stock options intended to qualify for special tax treatment under Section 422
of the Internal Revenue Code ("incentive stock options"), stock options that do not qualify for that special tax treatment ("non-qualified stock options"), restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance awards, and
foreign qualified benefits. The shares that remain available for issuance under the Program may be issued in connection with any one of these benefits and may be either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares (except that restricted stock
awards may be satisfied only from treasury shares).  

90  

If there is a lapse, expiration, termination, or cancellation of any benefit granted under the Program without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder, or if shares are issued under any benefit under the Program and thereafter are
reacquired by Abbott pursuant to rights reserved upon their issuance, or pursuant to the payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by delivery of other common shares of Abbott, the shares subject to or reserved for that benefit, or
so reacquired, may again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized under the Program.  

The Program automatically authorizes the annual addition of Abbott common stock for use in connection with the grant of Program benefits. The Program's automatic annual addition is equal to 1.5 percent of Abbott's total issued and outstanding
common shares on the first day of each calendar year beginning January 1, 2000.  

(2)  

(i)  
      
    Perclose, Inc. 1992 Stock Plan and the Perclose, Inc. 1997 Stock Plan.    In 1999, in connection with its merger with Perclose, Inc., Abbott assumed options outstanding under
both the Perclose, Inc. 1992 Stock Plan and the Perclose, Inc. 1997 Stock Plan. As of December 31, 2007, 64,933 options remained outstanding under the plans. These options have a weighted-average purchase price of $20.17.  

(ii)  
      
    Abbott Laboratories Affiliate Employee Stock Purchase Plan.       Eligible employees of participating non-U.S. affiliates of Abbott may participate in this plan. An eligible
employee may authorize payroll deductions at the rate of 1% to 10% of eligible compensation (in multiples of one percent) subject to a limit of US $12,500 during any purchase cycle.  

Purchase cycles are generally six months long and usually begin on August 1 and February 1. On the last day of each purchase cycle, Abbott uses participant contributions to acquire Abbott common shares. The shares acquired come from
treasury shares. The purchase price is 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the shares on that date or on the first day of that purchase cycle.  

(iii)  
      
    Abbott Laboratories Employee Share Ownership Plan.       Eligible employees of Abbott's affiliates in the United Kingdom may participate in this plan. Each eligible employee
may contribute up to 10% of his or her salary, subject to a maximum statutory limit of  125 per month. Each month, these contributions are used to buy Abbott shares on the open market at its then current market price. The plan contains an
employer matching share feature under which the participating employers purchase an Abbott common share on the open market for each share purchased by the employee with the first 1.75% of salary. Matching shares cannot be sold or transferred from the
plan for a period of three years from the date of allocation. The plan is tax approved.  

(iv)  
      
    Abbott Canada Stock Retirement Purchase Plan.       Eligible employees of Abbott Canada may participate in the plan. Each eligible employee may contribute to the basic plan
an amount equal to 2% of eligible compensation up to an annual maximum of $4,000 (Canadian). Abbott Canada matches employee contributions to the basic plan using a formula that takes into account employee contributions. In addition, the employee can
also contribute to the supplementary plan an amount up to 8% of eligible compensation. There is no matching of employee supplementary contributions by Abbott Canada. All contributions of the basic and supplementary plans are combined and used to make
monthly purchases of Abbott common shares on the open market at its then current market price. Shares are allocated and accumulated to individual employee stock accounts based on individual contributions and the average open market purchase price for
a given year. The employee stock purchase plan is managed by the Abbott Canada Treasurer.  

91  

(v)  
      
    Abbott Laboratories Equity-Based Award/Recognition Plan.       Abbott uses stock award plans to motivate and reward employee performance. For example, Abbott shares are
awarded to employees who have been granted a patent or met other performance based criteria. Abbott purchases the shares awarded under these plans on the open market.  

(3)  

The number of securities includes:  

(i)  

1,329,603 shares available for issuance under the Abbott Laboratories Affiliate Employee Stock Purchase Plan,  

(ii)  

58,270 shares available for issuance under the Abbott Laboratories Employee Share Ownership Plan,  

(iii)  

550,374 shares available for issuance under the Abbott Canada Stock Retirement Plan, and  

(iv)  

455,423 shares available for issuance under the Abbott Laboratories Equity-Based Award/Recognition Plan.  

For additional information concerning the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, see the discussion in Note 8 entitled "Incentive Stock Program," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data."  

(b)  
      
    Information Concerning Security Ownership   .    Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the heading "Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in
the 2008 Proxy Statement. The 2008 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 19, 2008.  

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE            

          The material to be included in the 2008 Proxy Statement under the headings "The Board of Directors," "Committees of the Board of Directors," "Corporate Governance
Materials," and "Approval Process for Related Person Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2008 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 19, 2008.   

ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES            

          Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the headings "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" and "Policy on Audit Committee
Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Auditor" in the 2008 Proxy Statement. The 2008 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 19, 2008.   

  92  

PART IV            

   ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES     

   (a)   Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K.     

(1)     Financial Statements:       See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," on page 42 hereof, for a list of
financial statements.
      (2)     Financial Statement Schedules:       The required financial statement schedules are found on the pages indicated below. These
schedules should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of Abbott Laboratories and TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.:    

Abbott Laboratories Financial Statement Schedules      
     
   Page No.    

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (Schedule II)  
     
  96  

Schedules I, III, IV, and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not required  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
     
  97  

Individual Financial Statements of businesses acquired by the registrant have been omitted pursuant to Rule 3.05, paragraph (1) of Regulation S-X  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Financial Statement Schedules      
     
   Page No.    

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (Schedule II)  
     
  98  

Schedules I, III, IV, and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not required  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
     
  99  

(3)     Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K:       The information called for by this paragraph is
incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index on pages 100 through 105 of this Form 10-K.

(b)     Exhibits filed (see Exhibit Index on pages 100 through 105).   
      (c)     Financial Statement Schedules filed (pages 96 and 98).    
  93  

SIGNATURES            

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Abbott Laboratories has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

ABBOTT LABORATORIES  

By  

/s/    MILES D. WHITE           

Miles D. White 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 19, 2008  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Abbott Laboratories
on February 19, 2008 in the capacities indicated below.   

/s/    MILES D. WHITE            Miles D. White 
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive 
Officer and Director of Abbott Laboratories 
(principal executive officer)  
     
  /s/    ROXANNE S. AUSTIN            Roxanne S. Austin 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/    THOMAS C. FREYMAN            Thomas C. Freyman 
Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer)  

/s/    WILLIAM M. DALEY            William M. Daley 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/    GREG W. LINDER            Greg W. Linder 
Vice President and Controller 
(principal accounting officer)  

/s/    W. JAMES FARRELL            W. James Farrell 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/    H. LAURANCE FULLER            H. Laurance Fuller 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/    WILLIAM A. OSBORN            William A. Osborn 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/    DAVID A. L. OWEN            David A. L. Owen 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/    BOONE POWELL JR.            Boone Powell Jr. 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

94  

/s/    W. ANN REYNOLDS            W. Ann Reynolds 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/    ROY S. ROBERTS            Roy S. Roberts 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/    SAMUEL C. SCOTT III            Samuel C. Scott III 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/    WILLIAM D. SMITHBURG            William D. Smithburg 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/    GLENN F. TILTON            Glenn F. Tilton 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

95  

ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES        SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006 AND 2005        (in thousands of dollars)     

96  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the consolidated financial statements of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, and for the years then
ended, and the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, and have issued our reports thereon dated February 14, 2008, which report relating to the
consolidated financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the adoption of new accounting standards in 2007 and 2006; such reports are included
elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement
schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 
Chicago, Illinois 
February 14, 2008   

  97  

TAP PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006 AND 2005        (in thousands of dollars)

(a)    Represents
provisions related to allowances for doubtful accounts and net change in the allowances for sales deductions.    
  98  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.:   

          We
have audited the consolidated financial statements of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007 and have issued our report thereon dated February 1, 2008; such consolidated financial statements and report are included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement
schedule is the responsibility of the the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 
Chicago, Illinois 
February 1, 2008   

  99  

EXHIBIT INDEX   ABBOTT LABORATORIES   ANNUAL REPORT   FORM 10-K   2007            

Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934."   

100  

101  

10.3  

*Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 9, 2005.**  

10.4  

*The 1986 Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 on Form 10-Q.**  

10.5  

*Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 17, 2006.**  

10.6  

*Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, as amended and restated effective as of April 27, 2007, filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the 2006 Abbott Laboratories Report on Form 10-K.**  

10.7  

*The Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.8 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 2005.**  

10.8  

*Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option granted with an Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on
Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.9  

*Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report dated August 20, 2004 on
Form 8-K.**  

10.10  

*Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option granted with a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on
Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.11  

*Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20,
2004.**  

10.12  

*Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Replacement Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20,
2004.**  

10.13  

*Form of Employee Restricted Stock Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.14  

*Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.15  

*Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.8 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.16  

*Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2004.**  

102  

103  

104  

The 2008 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under separate cover on or about March 19, 2008.   

*    Incorporated
herein by reference. Commission file number 1-2189.
      **    Denotes
management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.    

Abbott
will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a shareholder upon written request to the Corporate Secretary, Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois
60064-6400.   

  105  

QuickLinks    
  PART I   
 
  ITEM 1. BUSINESS   
 
  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS   
  FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS   
  NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS   
 
  INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL   
  INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS   
  INTERNET INFORMATION   

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   
 
  CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   
  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES   
  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
  ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   
 
  PART II   
 
  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   
  ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
 
  Financial Review   

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
 
  Financial Instruments and Risk Management   

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Earnings (dollars and shares in thousands except per share data)   
  Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (dollars in thousands)   
  Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheet (dollars in thousands)   
  Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment (dollars in thousands except per share data)   
 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income (dollars in thousands)   
 
  TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (dollars in thousands)   
 
  TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share amount)   
 
  TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in thousands, except share amounts)   
 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in thousands)   

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
  ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION   

PART III   
 
  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   
  ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
  ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
  ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE   
  ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   

PART IV   

SIGNATURES   
 
  ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006 AND 2005 (in thousands of dollars)   
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
  TAP PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006 AND 2005 (in thousands of dollars)   
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
 
  EXHIBIT INDEX ABBOTT LABORATORIES ANNUAL REPORT FORM 10-K 2007   

<EX-10.27>
 2
 a2182445zex-10_27.htm
 EX-10.27

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 10.27            

Abbott Laboratories              Description of Base Salary of Named Executive Officers            

          Set forth below are the base salaries, effective December 31, 2007 and March 1, 2008, of the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and
Holger Liepmann, all of whom were named executive officers in 2007.   

  Miles
D. White 
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer   

Thomas
C. Freyman 
Executive Vice President, Finance and 
Chief Financial Officer   

Holger
Liepmann 
Executive Vice President, 
Global Nutrition   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 10.27   
 
  Abbott Laboratories Description of Base Salary of Named Executive Officers   

</EX-10.27>

<EX-12>
 3
 a2182445zex-12.htm
 EX-12

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 12            

Abbott Laboratories   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges      (Unaudited)   (dollars in millions)       

NOTE:
For the purpose of calculating this ratio, (i) earnings from continuing operations have been calculated by adjusting earnings from continuing operations for taxes on earnings from
continuing
operations; interest expense; amortization of capitalized interest, net of capitalized interest; minority interest; and the portion of rentals representative of the interest factor, (ii) Abbott
considers one-third of rental expense to be the amount representing return on capital, and (iii) fixed charges comprise total interest expense, including capitalized interest and
such portion of rentals.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 12   
 
  Abbott Laboratories Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges (Unaudited) (dollars in millions)   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 4
 a2182445zex-21.htm
 EX-21

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 21            

  SUBSIDIARIES
OF ABBOTT LABORATORIES   

          The
following is a list of subsidiaries of Abbott Laboratories. Abbott Laboratories is not a subsidiary of any other corporation. Where ownership of a subsidiary is less than 100% by
Abbott Laboratories or an Abbott Laboratories' subsidiary, such has been noted by designating the percentage of ownership.   

Domestic Subsidiaries      
     
   Incorporation      

Abbott Administration Inc.   
     
  Delaware  

Abbott Bioresearch Center, Inc.   

Delaware  

Abbott Cardiovascular, Inc.   

Delaware  

Abbott Cardiovascular Systems Inc.   

California  

Abbott Diabetes Care Inc.   

Delaware  

Abbott Diabetes Care Sales Corporation  

Delaware  

Abbott Equity Investments LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott Exchange Inc.   

Delaware  

Abbott Health Products, Inc.   

Delaware  

Abbott Home Infusion Services of New York, Inc.   

New York  

Abbott International LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott Investment Holdings Corporation  

Delaware  

Abbott Laboratories Inc.   

Delaware  

Abbott Laboratories International Co.   

Illinois  

Abbott Laboratories Pacific Ltd.   

Illinois  

Abbott Laboratories (Puerto Rico) Incorporated  

Puerto Rico  

Abbott Laboratories Purchasing Company, LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott Laboratories Residential Development Fund, Inc.   

Illinois  

Abbott Laboratories Services Corp.   

Illinois  

Abbott Management Corporation  

Delaware  

Abbott Molecular Inc.   

Delaware  

Abbott Personnel Inc.   

Delaware  

Abbott Pharmaceutical Corporation  

Delaware  

Abbott Point of Care Inc.   

Delaware  

Abbott Resources Inc.   

Delaware  

Abbott Resources International Inc.   

Delaware  

Abbott Spine Inc.   

Delaware  

Abbott Trading Company, Inc.   

Virgin Islands  

Abbott Universal LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott Vascular Inc.   

Delaware  

Abbott Vascular Solutions Inc.   

Indiana  

Aeropharm Technology, LLC  

Delaware  

Aspen Acquisition I, Inc.   

Delaware  

AVI Corp.   

Delaware  

Bioabsorbable Vascular Solutions, Inc.   

Delaware  

BioDisplay Technologies, Inc.   

Illinois  

CG Nutritionals, Inc.   

Delaware  

CMM Transportation, Inc.   

Delaware  

Gene-Trak, Inc.   

Delaware  

Gene-Trak Systems Industrial Diagnostics Corp.   

Delaware  

IEP Pharmaceutical Devices, LLC  

Delaware  

i-STAT Europe, Inc.   

Delaware  

IMTC Technologies, Inc.   

Delaware  

Integrated Vascular Systems, Inc.   

Delaware  

IVD Instruments, LLC  

Delaware  

Knoll Pharmaceutical Company  

New Jersey  

Kos Life Sciences LLC  

Delaware  

Kos Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   

Florida  

Murex Diagnostics, Inc.   

Delaware  

Natural Supplement Association, Incorporated  

Colorado  

North Shore Properties, Inc.   

Delaware  

Pegasus One LLC  

Delaware  

PDD, LLC  

Delaware  

PDD II, LLC  

Delaware  

S G Nutritionals Inc.   

Delaware  

Solartek Products, Inc.   

Delaware  

Spine Next America Corp.   

Delaware  

Swan-Myers, Incorporated  

Indiana  

TAP Finance Inc.   

Delaware 50%*  

TAP Pharmaceuticals Inc.   

Delaware 50%**  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.   

Delaware 50%  

Tobal Products Incorporated  

Illinois  

Vectoris Corporation  

California  

Woodside Biomedical, Inc.   

Delaware  

X Technologies Inc.   

Delaware  

ZonePerfect Nutrition Company  

Delaware  

*    TAP
Finance Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.
      **    TAP
Pharmaceuticals Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.    

International Subsidiaries      
     
   Country in which 
Organized    

Abbott Laboratories Argentina, S.A.   
     
  Argentina  

Murex Argentina S.A.   

Argentina 65%  

Abbott Australasia Pty. Limited  

Australia  

EAS Australia Pty Ltd  

Australia  

Abbott Gesellschaft m.b.H.   

Austria  

Abbott Bahamas Overseas Businesses Corporation  

Bahamas  

Abbott Hospitals Limited  

Bahamas  

Abbott Laboratories (Bangladesh) Ltd.   

Bangladesh 85%  

Murex Diagnostics International, Inc.   

Barbados  

Abbott Belgian Pension Fund A.S.B.L.   

Belgium  

Abbott Belgian Investments SPRL  

Belgium  

Abbott S.A.   

Belgium  

Abbott Vascular International BVBA  

Belgium  

Abbott Ireland  

Bermuda  

Abbott Biotechnology Ltd.   

Bermuda  

Abbott Pharmaceuticals PR Ltd.   

Bermuda  

Abbott Diagnostics International, Ltd.   

Bermuda  

Abbott Strategic Opportunities Limited  

Bermuda  

Abbott Laboratorios do Brasil Ltda.   

Brazil  

Abbott (Cambodia) LLC  

Cambodia  

Abbott Laboratories, Limited  

Canada  

Abbott Point of Care Canada Limited  

Canada  

Experimental and Applied Sciences Canada Inc.   

Canada  

International Murex Technologies Corporation  

Canada  

Toba Pharma Inc.   

Canada  

Abbott Laboratories de Chile Limitada  

Chile  

Abbott (Guangzhou) Nutritionals Co., Ltd.   

China  

Abbott Laboratories Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.   

China  

Guidant International Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.   

China  

Shanghai Abbott Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.   

China 75%  

Abbott Laboratories de Colombia, S.A.   

Colombia  

Abbott Healthcare Costa Rica S.A.   

Costa Rica  

Abbott Laboratories d.o.o.   

Croatia  

Abbott Laboratories s.r.o.   

Czech Republic  

Abbott Laboratories A/S  

Denmark  

Abbott Laboratorios del Ecuador Cia. Ltda.   

Ecuador  

Abbott Limited Egypt LLC  

Egypt  

Abbott, S.A. de C.V.   

El Salvador  

Abbott OY  

Finland  

Abbott France Instruments S.A.S.   

France  

Abbott France S.A.S.   

France  

Abbott Spine S.A.   

France  

Vysis S.A.   

France  

Abbott Biotechnology Deutschland GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Diagnostics GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott GmbH   Co. KG  

Germany  

Abbott Holding GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Management GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Vascular Deutschland GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Vascular Instruments Deutschland GmbH  

Germany  

Heidelberg Innovation GmbH G  

Germany  

Heidelberg Innovation GmbH   Co. BioScience Venture KG  

Germany  

Abbott Laboratories (Hellas) S.A.   

Greece  

Abbott Grenada Limited  

Grenada  

Abbott Laboratorios, S.A.   

Guatemala  

Abbott Laboratories Limited  

Hong Kong  

Abbott Laboratories (Hungary) Health Products and Medical Equipment 
    Trading and Servicing Limited Liability Company  

Hungary  

Abbott Healthcare Pvt. Ltd.   

India  

Abind Healthcare Private Limited  

India  

Abbott India Limited  

India 65.14%  

P. T. Abbott Indonesia  

Indonesia 99.99%  

Abbott Ireland Holdings Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Ireland Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Laboratories Vascular Enterprises Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Laboratories, Ireland, Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Mature Products International  

Ireland  

Abbott Mature Products Management  

Ireland  

Abbott Nutrition Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Products  

Ireland  

Abbott Vascular Devices Ireland Limited  

Ireland  

BiodivYsio Limited  

Ireland  

Carotid International Systems Limited  

Ireland  

Mednova Limited  

Ireland  

Salviac Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott AIE s.r.l.   

Italy  

Abbott S.p.A.   

Italy  

Autonomous Employee Welfare Fund for Abbott S.p.A. Dirigenti  

Italy  

Knoll-Ravizza Farmaceutici S.p.A  

Italy  

Abbott West Indies Limited  

Jamaica 51%  

Consolidated Laboratories Limited  

Jamaica  

Abbott Japan Co., Ltd.   

Japan  

Abbott Vascular Japan Co., Ltd.   

Japan  

Tofuku Shoji K.K.   

Japan  

Abbott Korea Limited  

Korea  

Abbott Laboratories Baltics  

Latvia  

Abbott Middle East S.A.R.L.   

Lebanon  

Abbott Laboratories (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.   

Malaysia  

Abbott Laboratories de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   

Mexico  

Abbott Laboratories (Mozambique), Limitada  

Mozambique  

Abbott B.V.   

Netherlands  

Abbott Biotechnology Netherlands B.V.   

Netherlands  

Abbott Holdings B.V.   

Netherlands  

Abbott Knoll Investments B.V.   

Netherlands  

Abbott Laboratories B.V.   

Netherlands  

Abbott Logistics B.V.   

Netherlands  

Abbott Nederland C.V.   

Netherlands  

Abbott Vascular Devices Holland B.V.   

Netherlands  

EAS International B.V.   

Netherlands  

IMTC Finance B.V.   

Netherlands  

IMTC Holdings B.V.   

Netherlands  

MediSense Europe B.V.   

Netherlands  

Abbott Laboratories (N.Z.) Limited  

New Zealand  

EAS Asia/Pacific Limited  

New Zealand  

Abbott Norge AS  

Norway  

Abbott Laboratories (Pakistan) Limited  

Pakistan 77.9%  

Abbott Laboratories, C.A.   

Panama  

Abbott Overseas, S.A.   

Panama  

Abbott Laboratorios S.A.   

Peru  

Knoll LLC  

Puerto Rico  

Abbott Laboratories (Philippines)  

Philippines  

Union-Madison Realty Company, Inc.   

Philippines 40%  

Abbott Laboratories Poland Sp.z.o.o.   

Poland  

Abbott Laboratorios, Limitada  

Portugal  

Abbottfarma Promo  o de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada  

Portugal  

Knoll Promo  o de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada  

Portugal  

MediSense Promo  o de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada  

Portugal  

Premier Promo  o de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada  

Portugal  

Abbott Laboratories (Singapore) Private Limited  

Singapore  

Abbott Manufacturing Singapore Private Limited  

Singapore  

Abbott Laboratories d.o.o.   

Slovenia  

Abbott Laboratories Slovakia s.r.o.   

Slovenia  

Abbott Laboratories South Africa (Proprietary) Limited  

South Africa  

Experimental   Applied Sciences (Pty) Ltd.   

South Africa  

Knoll Pharmaceuticals South Africa Pty. Ltd.   

South Africa  

Murex Biotech South Africa (Proprietary) Limited  

South Africa  

Murex Diagnostics South Africa (Proprietary) Limited South Africa  

South Africa  

Abbott Cientifica, S.A.   

Spain  

Abbott Laboratories, S.A.   

Spain  

Bioresearch Espa a, S.A.   

Spain  

Liade S.A.   

Spain  

MediSense Europe B.V.   

Spain  

Abbott Scandinavia A.B.   

Sweden  

Abbott AG  

Switzerland  

Abbott Finance Company S.A.   

Switzerland  

Abbott Laboratories S.A.   

Switzerland  

Abbott Liestal AG  

Switzerland  

Knoll-Bioresearch S.A.   

Switzerland  

Abbott Fund Tanzania Limited  

Tanzania  

Abbott Laboratories Tanzania Limited  

Tanzania  

Abbott Laboratories Limited  

Thailand  

Abbott Laboratuarlari Ithalat Ihracat Ve Tecaret Limited Sirketi  

Turkey  

Abbott (UK) Finance Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott (UK) Holdings Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Asia Holdings Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Asia Investments  

United Kingdon  

Abbott Capital India Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Diabetes Care Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Equity Holdings Unlimited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Investments Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Laboratories Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Laboratories Trustee Company Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Vascular Devices (2) Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Vascular Devices Limited  

United Kingdom  

Experimental and Applied Sciences UK Limited  

United Kingdom  

IMTC Holdings (U.K.) Limited  

United Kingdom  

Knoll UK Investments Unlimited  

United Kingdom  

Knoll Unlimited  

United Kingdom  

MediSense Britain Limited  

United Kingdom  

MediSense Contract Manufacturing Unlimited  

United Kingdom  

Murex Biotech (UK) Limited  

United Kingdom  

Murex Biotech Limited  

United Kingdom  

TheraSense UK Limited  

United Kingdom  

Vysis (UK) Limited  

United Kingdom  

i-STAT Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Laboratories Uruguay S.A.   

Uruguay  

Abbott Laboratories, C.A.   

Venezuela  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 21   

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 a2182445zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

          We consent to the incorporation by reference in: Registration Statement Nos. 333-09071, 333-43381, 333-69547,
333-93253, 333-52768, 333-74228, 333-102178, 333-109250, 333-124850 and 333-141118 on Form S-8
for the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program; Registration Statement Nos. 333-74220, 333-102179 and 333-124851 on Form S-8 for
the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan; Registration Statement Nos. 333-75442 and 333-109254 on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories
Affiliate Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and Registration Statement Nos. 33-26685, 33-50452, 33-51585, 33-56897, 33-65127,
333-19511, 333-43383, 333-69579, 333-93257, 333-74224, 333-102180, 333-109253, 333-124849 and
333-141116 on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Program and Trusts; Post-effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement
No. 333-85867 on Form S-8 for the Perclose, Inc. 1992 Stock Plan, Perclose, Inc. 1995 Director Option Plan, Perclose, Inc. 1997 Stock Plan
and Perclose, Inc. 1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and Registration Statement No. 333-109132 and No. 333-132104 on Form S-3 of our
reports dated February 14, 2008, relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries, and the effectiveness of Abbott Laboratories'
internal control over financial reporting (which report on the financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the adoption of new accounting
standards in 2007 and 2006) appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories for the year ended December 31, 2007.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 
Chicago, Illinois 
February 14, 2008   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   
 
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 6
 a2182445zex-23_2.htm
 EX-23.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.2            

   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

          We consent to the incorporation by reference in: Registration Statement Nos. 333-09071, 333-43381, 333-69547,
333-93253, 333-52768, 333-74228, 333-102178, 333-109250, 333-124850 and 333-141118 on Form S-8
for the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program; Registration Statement Nos. 333-74220, 333-102179 and 333-124851 on Form S-8 for the
Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan; Registration Statement Nos. 333-75442 and 333-109254 on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Affiliate
Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and Registration Statement Nos. 33-26685, 33-50452, 33-51585, 33-56897, 33-65127, 333-19511,
333-43383, 333-69579, 333-93257, 333-74224, 333-102180, 333-109253, 333-124849 and 333-141116 on
Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Program and Trusts; Post-effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement
No. 333-85867 on Form S-8 for the Perclose, Inc. 1992 Stock Plan, Perclose, Inc. 1995 Director Option Plan, Perclose, Inc. 1997 Stock Plan
and Perclose, Inc. 1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and Registration Statement No. 333-109132 and No. 333-132104 on Form S-3 of our
report dated February 1, 2008, relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. appearing in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories for the year ended December 31, 2007.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 
Chicago, Illinois 
February 15, 2008   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.2   

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 a2182445zex-31_1.htm
 EX-31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

   Certification of Chief Executive Officer 
Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))     

  I,
Miles D. White, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of Abbott as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for Abbott and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to Abbott, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of Abbott's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Abbott's most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Abbott's auditors and the audit committee
of Abbott's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect Abbott's
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting.    

/s/    MILES D. WHITE            Miles D. White, 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

February 19, 2008  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 a2182445zex-31_2.htm
 EX-31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

   Certification of Chief Financial Officer 
Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))     

  I,
Thomas C. Freyman, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of Abbott as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for Abbott and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to Abbott, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of Abbott's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Abbott's most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Abbott's auditors and the audit committee
of Abbott's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect Abbott's
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting.    

/s/    THOMAS C. FREYMAN            Thomas C. Freyman 
Executive Vice President, Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 19, 2008  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 a2182445zex-32_1.htm
 EX-32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

   Certification Pursuant To 
18 U.S.C. Section 1350 
As Adopted Pursuant To 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

          In connection with the Annual Report of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2007 as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Miles D. White, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
  1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/    MILES D. WHITE            Miles D. White, 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 19, 2008  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Abbott Laboratories and will be retained by Abbott Laboratories and furnished to
the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 a2182445zex-32_2.htm
 EX-32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

   Certification Pursuant To 
18 U.S.C. Section 1350 
As Adopted Pursuant To 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

          In connection with the Annual Report of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2007 as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Thomas C. Freyman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
  1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/    THOMAS C. FREYMAN            Thomas C. Freyman 
Executive Vice President, Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 19, 2008  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Abbott Laboratories and will be retained by Abbott Laboratories and furnished to
the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   

</EX-32.2>

