<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110218_10-K_edgar_data_1800_0001047469-11-001056_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>18372702</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>309580</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2887412</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1444142</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5074185</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>8321021</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>68</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-11-001056.hdr.sgml : 20110218
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110218150318
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-11-001056
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110218
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110218

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ABBOTT LABORATORIES
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000001800
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				360698440
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02189
		FILM NUMBER:		11624204

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 ABBOTT PARK ROAD
		STREET 2:		D-322 AP6D
		CITY:			ABBOTT PARK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60064-3500
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8479376100

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 HqN79qkFZbxz7Ec63Cdl+6SX45MEV2C61gw4yrSv/tzq8gi2WmsAzBZGyMUbWFDx
 GTnNvGMT4BloG1+tTgsY6A==

 0001047469-11-001056.txt : 20110218

10-K
 1
 a2201962z10-k.htm
 10-K

Table of Contents    

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549   

FORM 10-K     

Abbott Laboratories     

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     

Title of Each Class    
     
   Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered    

Common Shares, Without Par Value  

New York Stock Exchange 
Chicago Stock Exchange  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.     

   Yes                No         

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to submit and post such files).     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this
chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.         

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.     

Large Accelerated Filer      
     
  Accelerated Filer      
     
  Non-accelerated Filer      
     
  Smaller Reporting Company      

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).     

   Yes                No         

   The aggregate market value of the 1,489,596,595 shares of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price
as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of Abbott Laboratories' most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2010), was $69,683,328,714. Abbott has no
non-voting common equity.     

   Number of common shares outstanding as of January 31, 2011: 1,547,581,805     

    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

   Portions of the 2011 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 15, 2011.     

Table of Contents    

PART I            

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS            

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS            

          Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900. Abbott's* principal business is the discovery, development,
manufacture, and sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products.   

FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND   CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS            

Incorporated herein by reference is Note 6 entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information related to Humira  included in "Financial Review."   

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS            

          Abbott has four reportable revenue segments: Pharmaceutical Products, Diagnostic Products, Nutritional Products, and Vascular Products.   

On
February 15, 2010, Abbott completed its acquisition of the Solvay Group's pharmaceuticals business for approximately $6.1 billion, in cash, plus additional payments of
up to EUR 100 million per year if certain sales milestones are met in 2011, 2012, and 2013.   

          On
September 8, 2010, Abbott acquired Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business, a leader in the Indian branded generics market, for $2.2 billion, in cash,
plus additional payments of $400 million annually in 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014.   

*    As
used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "Abbott" refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or
Abbott Laboratories and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.    
  1  

Table of Contents   

    Pharmaceutical Products     

          These products include a broad line of adult and pediatric pharmaceuticals manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide and are generally
sold directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses.
Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted
with other companies. In April 2010, Abbott acquired the outstanding shares of Facet Biotech Corporation for approximately $430 million, in cash, net of cash held by Facet. The acquisition
enhances Abbott's early- and mid-stage pharmaceutical pipeline, including a biologic for multiple sclerosis and compounds that complement Abbott's oncology program.   

          The
principal products included in the Pharmaceutical Products segment are:   

Humira , for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis,
and Crohn's disease;     
           TriCor , Trilipix , Simcor , and Niaspan , for the treatment of
dyslipidemia;     
           Kaletra , Aluvia , and Norvir , protease inhibitors for the treatment of HIV
infection;     
           Lupron , also marketed as Lucrin , and Lupron Depot , used for the palliative
treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids;    
           Synagis , for the treatment and prevention of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV);     
           AndroGel , for the treatment of adult males who have low or no testosterone;     
           the anesthesia products sevoflurane (sold in the United States under the trademark Ultane  and outside of the
United States primarily under the trademark Sevorane  and in a few other markets as Ultane ), isoflurane, and enflurane;     
           Zemplar , for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with chronic kidney
disease and Stage 5 treatment;     
           Synthroid , for the treatment of hypothyroidism;     
           the anti-infective clarithromycin (sold under the trademarks Biaxin , Klacid , and
Klaricid  and     
           Creon , for the treatment of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency associated with several underlying conditions,
including cystic fibrosis and chronic pancreatitis.    

The
Pharmaceutical Products segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation of Abbott's brand of products by physicians. Managed care
providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) and state and federal governments and agencies (for example, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs
and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers.   

          Competition
in the Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products
is a significant aspect of competition in this segment. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence in the
Pharmaceutical Products segment. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical products that
are off-patent.   

  2  

Table of Contents   

    Diagnostic Products     

          These products include a broad line of diagnostic systems and tests manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide to blood banks,
hospitals, commercial laboratories, clinics, physicians' offices, government agencies, alternate-care testing sites, and plasma protein therapeutic companies. The segment's products are
generally marketed and sold directly from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses and third-party distributors. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers
or through distributors, depending on the market served.   

          The
principal products included in the Diagnostic Products segment are:   

immunoassay systems, including ARCHITECT , AxSYM , and ABBOTT PRISM     
           chemistry systems such as ARCHITECT  c4000 , c8000 , and c16000     
           assays used for screening and/or diagnosis for drugs of abuse, cancer, therapeutic drug monitoring, fertility,
physiological diseases, and infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV;     
           the m2000 , an instrument that automates the extraction, purification, and preparation of DNA and RNA from
patient samples and detects and measures infectious agents including HIV, HBV, HCV, HPV, and CT/NG;     
           the Vysis  product line of genomic-based tests, including the PathVysion  HER-2 DNA
probe kit and the UroVysion  bladder cancer recurrence kit;     
           a full line of hematology systems and reagents known as the Cell-Dyn  series; and    
           the i-STAT  point-of-care diagnostic systems and tests for blood analysis.    

In
addition, under a distribution agreement with Celera Group, the Diagnostic Products segment exclusively distributes certain Celera molecular diagnostic products, including the
ViroSeq  HIV genotyping system and products used for the detection of mutations in the CFTR gene, which causes cystic fibrosis.   

          The
Diagnostic Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument warranty provisions, product
performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid
product obsolescence or regulatory changes. Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors
introduce new products.   

    Nutritional Products     

          These products include a broad line of pediatric and adult nutritional products manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide. These
products are generally marketed and sold to institutions, wholesalers, retailers, health care facilities, government agencies, and third-party distributors from Abbott-owned distribution centers or
third-party distributors. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.   

          Principal
products in the Nutritional Products segment include:   

various forms of prepared infant formula and follow-on formula, including
Similac Advance , Similac Advance EarlyShield , Similac , Similac  with Iron, Similac Sensitive , Similac Sensitive 
RS, Similac Go Grow , Similac  NeoSure , Similac  Organic, Similac  Special Care , Isomil  Advance ,
Isomil , Alimentum , Gain , and Grow     
 
  3  

Table of Contents   

adult and other pediatric nutritional products, including Ensure , Ensure Plus ,
Ensure  Muscle Health, Glucerna , ProSure , PediaSure , PediaSure Sidekicks , EleCare , Juven , Abound ,
and Pedialyte      
           nutritional products used in enteral feeding in health care institutions, including Jevity ,
Glucerna  1.2 Cal, Glucerna  1.5 Cal, Osmolite , Oxepa , and Nepro  and     
           Zone Perfect  bars and the EAS  family of nutritional brands, including Myoplex  and
AdvantEdge .    

Primary
marketing efforts for nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation of Abbott's brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. In
addition, certain nutritional products sold as Gain , Grow , PediaSure , PediaSure Sidekicks , Pedialyte , Ensure , Zone
Perfect , EAS /Myoplex , and Glucerna  are also promoted directly to the public by consumer marketing efforts in select markets.   

          Competition
for nutritional products in the segment is generally from other diversified consumer and health care manufacturers. Competitive factors include consumer advertising,
formulation, packaging, scientific innovation, intellectual property, price, and availability of product forms. A significant aspect of competition is the search for ingredient innovations. The
introduction of new products by competitors, changes in medical practices and procedures, and regulatory changes can result in product obsolescence. In addition, private label and local manufacturers'
products may increase competitive pressure.   

    Vascular Products     

          These products include a broad line of coronary, endovascular, vessel closure, and structural heart devices for the treatment of
vascular disease manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide. The segment's products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals from
Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.   

          The
principal products included in the Vascular Products segment are:   

Xience Prime  and Xience V  drug-eluting stent systems developed on the
Multi-Link Vision  platform;     
           Multi-Link 8 , Multi-Link Vision  and Multi-Link Mini
Vision  coronary metallic stents;     
           TREK  and Voyager  balloon dilatation products;     
           Hi-Torque Balance Middleweight Elite  and Asahi  coronary guidewires;    
           StarClose  and Perclose  vessel closure devices;     
           Acculink /Accunet  and Xact /Emboshield NAV 6   carotid stent
systems;     
           MitraClip , a percutaneous valve repair system; and     
           ABSORB , a drug eluting bioresorbable vascular scaffold.    

The
Vascular Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, product performance, long-term supply
contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes.
Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products.   

  4  

Table of Contents   

    Other Products     

          The principal products in Abbott's other businesses include blood glucose monitoring meters, test strips, data management software and
accessories for people with diabetes, including the FreeStyle  product line, and medical devices for the eye, including cataract surgery, LASIK surgery, contact lens care products, and dry
eye products. These products are mostly marketed worldwide and generally sold directly to wholesalers, government agencies, health care facilities, mail order pharmacies, and independent retailers
from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Some of these products are marketed and distributed through distributors. Blood glucose monitoring meters, contact lens care products, and
dry eye products are also marketed and sold over-the-counter to consumers. These products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use,
service, and product performance. Medical devices for the eye also can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes.   

INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL            

    Sources and Availability of Raw Materials     

          Abbott purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to Abbott's operations from numerous
suppliers in the United States and abroad. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.   

    Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses     

          Abbott is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection for its products. Accordingly, where possible, patents and
trademarks are sought and obtained for Abbott's products in the United States and all countries of major marketing interest to Abbott. Abbott owns and is licensed under a substantial number of patents
and patent applications. Principal trademarks and the products they cover are discussed in the Narrative Description of Business on pages 1 through 5. These, and various patents which
expire during the period 2011 to 2030, in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the operation of Abbott's business. Abbott believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or
related group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark Humira ), are material in relation to Abbott's business as a
whole. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patents covering adalimumab will expire in December 2016. In addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are
significant for Abbott's Pharmaceutical Products segment: those related to lopinavir/ritonavir (which is sold under the trademarks Kaletra  and Aluvia ), those related to
fenofibrate (which is sold under the trademarks TriCor  and Trilipix ), and those related to niacin (which is sold under the trademarks Niaspan  and
Simcor ). The United States composition of matter patent covering lopinavir will expire in 2016. The United States non-composition of matter patent covering lopinavir/ritonavir
will expire in 2016. The principal United States non-composition of matter patents covering the fenofibrate products will expire in 2011, 2018, 2020, 2023, and 2025. The principal United
States non-composition of matter patents covering the niacin products will expire in 2013, 2017, and 2018. Litigation related to the products listed above is discussed in Legal Proceedings
on pages 16 through 20. Agreements that may affect exclusivity are discussed in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Results of Operations" on pages 34 through 35.   

Although
the expiration of a composition of matter patent may lead to increased competition, in most cases Abbott owns or has a license to other patents that expire after the composition
of matter patent related to particular formulations, uses, or processes for manufacturing the pharmaceutical. These non-composition of matter patents and Abbott's other intellectual
property, along with such other factors as a competitor's need to obtain regulatory approvals prior to marketing a competitive product and the nature of the market, may allow Abbott to continue to
have commercial advantages after the expiration of the composition of matter patent, including in some instances exclusivity.   

  5  

Table of Contents   

    Seasonal Aspects, Customers, Backlog, and Renegotiation     

          There are no significant seasonal aspects to Abbott's business. Abbott has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would
have a material adverse effect on Abbott. Orders for Abbott's products are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to Abbott's business. No material portion of Abbott's
business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.   

    Research and Development     

          Abbott spent $3,724,424,000 in 2010, $2,743,733,000 in 2009, and $2,688,811,000 in 2008, on research to discover and develop new
products and processes and to improve existing products and processes. The majority of research and development expenditures is concentrated on pharmaceutical products.   

    Environmental Matters     

          Abbott believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental
protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. Abbott's capital
and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2010 were approximately $9 million and $65 million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2011 are
estimated to be $15 million and $67 million, respectively.   

          Abbott
has been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Abbott is also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which are owned by Abbott,
in cooperation
with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation activities,
Abbott believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse
effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.   

    Employees     

          Abbott employed approximately 90,000 persons as of December 31, 2010.   

Regulation     

          The development, manufacture, sale, and distribution of Abbott's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation.
Government regulation by various federal, state, and local agencies, both domestic and international, which includes detailed inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures,
clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, marketing and promotion, sampling, distribution, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices, and achieving compliance with these
regulations, substantially increases the time, difficulty, and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to market newly developed and existing products. Government regulatory actions
can result in delay in the release of products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions,
including fines and penalties. Governmental administrative agencies also can invalidate intellectual property rights and control the entrance of multi-source drugs for small molecule and biologic
generic medicines. In addition, governmental regulatory agencies require prescription drug, nutrition, and medical device manufacturers to pay fees, such as application, product, user, and
establishment fees or taxes.   

          Abbott
is a party to a consent decree entered in 1999 that requires Abbott to ensure its diagnostics manufacturing processes in Lake County, Illinois conform to the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration's   

  6  

Table of Contents   

(FDA)
Quality System Regulation and restricts the sale in the United States of certain products in the Diagnostic Products segment. In 2003, the FDA concluded that those operations were in substantial
conformity with the Quality System Regulation.   

          International
operations are also subject to a significant degree of government regulation and country-specific rules and regulations. Many countries, directly or indirectly, through
reimbursement, payment, pricing, or coverage limitations, control the selling price of most health care products. Furthermore, many countries limit the importation of raw materials and finished
products.   

          Continuing
studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their components are being conducted by industry, government agencies, and others. Such
studies, which employ increasingly sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed products and in some cases have resulted,
and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of marketing of such products and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.   

Access
to and the cost of human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in the
United States and other countries. In the United States, most states have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's
version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under
Medicare or Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care
facility to a fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control
expenditures for many health care products. Medicare enters into contracts with private plans to negotiate prices for medicine delivered under Part D and beginning in 2011 companies must
provide a discount of 50 percent for branded prescription drugs sold to patients who fall into the Medicare Part D coverage gap. Medicare is implementing a competitive bidding system for
durable medical equipment, enteral nutrition products, and supplies. Under federal law, manufacturers must pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid programs on prescription drugs
reimbursed under state Medicaid plans. In addition, a majority of states are seeking additional rebates. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 requires manufacturers to extend additional discounts on
pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service entities and institutions, as well as certain other
covered entities.   

          In
the United States, governmental cost containment efforts have extended to the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). All
states are mandated to have in place a cost containment program for infant formula. As a result, states obtain rebates from manufacturers of infant formula whose products are used in the program
through competitive bidding.   

          Abbott
expects debate to continue during 2011 at all government levels over marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. Abbott
believes that legislation could change access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, make changes
to health care delivery systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceutical, nutrition, and medical device industries, or require additional reporting and disclosure.   

          Efforts
to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector. Health care providers have responded by instituting various cost reduction and containment measures.   

          It
is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.   

  7  

Table of Contents   

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS            

          Abbott markets products worldwide through affiliates and distributors. Most of the products discussed in the preceding sections of this
report are also sold outside the United States. In addition, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines to meet local regulatory requirements and marketing preferences are
manufactured and marketed to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including
price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.   

INTERNET INFORMATION            

          Copies of Abbott's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through
Abbott's investor relations website    (www.abbottinvestor.com)    as soon as reasonably practicable after Abbott electronically files the material with, or
furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

          Abbott's
corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of Abbott's audit committee, compensation committee,
nominations and
governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on Abbott's investor relations website    (www.abbottinvestor.com)   .   

  8  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS            

          In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered before deciding to invest in any
of Abbott's securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Abbott, or risks Abbott currently considers immaterial, could also affect Abbott's actual results. Abbott's business,
financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.   

   Abbott may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of or spin-off businesses,
which could cause it to incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability.     

          Abbott may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of or spin-off some
of its businesses, as part of its business strategy. Abbott may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected
benefits. If Abbott is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than
originally anticipated. Abbott may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities.
Abbott could also experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for
impairment of long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of Abbott's credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.   

   The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may affect Abbott's future revenues and operating income.     

          Many of Abbott's businesses rely on patent and trademark and other intellectual property protection. Although most of the challenges to
Abbott's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property protections. To the extent Abbott's intellectual property is successfully
challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or to the extent it does not allow Abbott to compete effectively, Abbott's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce Abbott's
intellectual property rights or to the extent that countries require compulsory licensing of its intellectual property, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced. Abbott's
principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in the sections captioned, "Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses" and "Financial Review," and litigation regarding these patents is
described in the section captioned "Legal Proceedings."   

          Abbott
faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. The expiration or loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic
substitutes that may significantly reduce Abbott's sales for that product in a short amount of time. If Abbott's competitive position is compromised because of generics or otherwise, it could have a
material adverse effect on its revenues, margins, business, and results of operations.   

   Competitors' intellectual property may prevent Abbott from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability
and financial condition.     

          Competitors may claim that an Abbott product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property
infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require Abbott to enter into license agreements. Abbott cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain license agreements on commercially
reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject Abbott to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale or use of   

  9  

Table of Contents   

affected
Abbott products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.   

   Abbott is subject to cost-containment efforts that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating income.     

In the United States and other countries, Abbott's businesses have experienced downward pressure on product pricing.
Cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in the section captioned "Regulation." To the extent these cost containment efforts are
not offset by greater patient access to healthcare or other factors, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced.   

   Abbott is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and
processes.     

          Abbott's products are subject to rigorous regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and numerous international,
supranational, federal, and state authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be
granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new
indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in revenues, and in substantial additional costs.   

          In
addition, no assurance can be given that Abbott will remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once clearance or approval has been obtained for a
product. These
requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, and advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts
due to manufacturing quality concerns. Many of Abbott's facilities and procedures and those of Abbott's suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and other
regulatory authorities. Abbott must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. Possible regulatory actions could include warning letters, fines,
damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of Abbott's products, and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to Abbott's
business practices and operations; refunds, recalls, or seizures of Abbott's products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of Abbott's facilities while Abbott or Abbott's
suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these
events could disrupt Abbott's business and have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues, profitability and financial condition.   

   Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on Abbott, require Abbott to change its business practices,
and restrict its operations in the future.     

          Abbott's industry is also subject to various federal, state, and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit
program reimbursement, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care
Act, and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances,
substantial fines, imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and
regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Abbott to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales
or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Abbott's business and result in a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues,
profitability, and financial condition.   

  10  

Table of Contents   

Changes in the health care regulatory environment may adversely affect Abbott's business.     

          The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law on
March 23, 2010 and March 30, 2010, respectively. A number of the provisions of those laws require further rulemaking action by governmental agencies to implement. The laws change access
to health care products and services and
create new fees for the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. Future rulemaking could increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, or
require additional reporting and disclosure. Abbott cannot predict the timing or impact of any future rulemaking.   

   Abbott's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause Abbott's
revenue and profitability to decline.     

          To remain competitive, Abbott must continue to launch new products and technologies. To accomplish this, Abbott commits substantial
efforts, funds, and other resources to research and development. A high rate of failure is inherent in the research and development of new products and technologies. Abbott must make ongoing
substantial expenditures without any assurance that its efforts will be commercially successful. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including after significant funds have been invested.   

Promising
new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may only have limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical
outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or
infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Even if Abbott successfully develops new products or enhancements or new generations of Abbott's existing products, they may be quickly
rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors' innovations. Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things,
entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. Abbott cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development will be launched,
whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or new
indications for existing products may cause Abbott's products to become obsolete, causing Abbott's revenues and operating results to suffer.   

   New products and technological advances by Abbott's competitors may negatively affect Abbott's results of operations.     

          Abbott's products face intense competition from its competitors' products. Competitors' products may be safer, more effective, more
effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or superior performance features than Abbott's products. Abbott cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction of
competitors' products.   

   The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if Abbott or one of its suppliers encounters problems
manufacturing products, Abbott's business could suffer.     

          The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements.
Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters,
and environmental factors. In addition, single suppliers are currently used for certain products and materials. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may
have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause,
similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product   

  11  

Table of Contents   

is
released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. To the extent Abbott or one of its suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a
material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.   

   Significant safety issues could arise for Abbott's products, which could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and financial condition.     

          All health care products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration.
Following regulatory approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If new safety
issues are reported, Abbott may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, Abbott may be required to provide additional warnings on a product's label or narrow its approved
indication, either of which could reduce the product's market acceptance. If serious safety issues with an Abbott product arise, sales of the product could be halted by Abbott or by regulatory
authorities. Safety issues affecting suppliers' or competitors' products also may reduce the market acceptance of Abbott's products.   

          In
addition, in the ordinary course of business, Abbott is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products or the products of other companies that Abbott
promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate
outcome, may have a material adverse effect on Abbott's business and reputation and on Abbott's ability to attract and retain customers. Consequences may also include additional costs, a decrease in
market share for the products, lower income or exposure to other claims. Product liability losses are generally self-insured. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect
on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.   

   The international nature of Abbott's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline.     

Abbott's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Sales outside of the United States make up
approximately 55% of Abbott's net sales. The risks associated with Abbott's operations outside the United States include:   

changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs;     
           multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict Abbott's ability to
manufacture, market, and sell its products;     
           differing local product preferences and product requirements;     
           trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;     
           difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing foreign operations;     
           differing labor regulations;     
           potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;     
           political and economic instability;     
           price and currency exchange controls, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises, expropriation,
nationalization, and other governmental action;     
           inflation, recession and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates; and     
           compulsory licensing or diminished protection of intellectual property.    
 
  12  

Table of Contents   

These
risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.   

   Other factors can have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability and financial condition.     

          Many other factors can affect Abbott's profitability and its financial condition, including:   

Differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for
pensions, retiree health care, stock compensation, intangibles, and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation, the absence of a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the minimum,
compared to the actual amount.     
           Changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements,
product marketing application standards, and environmental laws in domestic or foreign jurisdictions.     
           Changes in the rate of inflation (including the cost of raw materials, commodities, and supplies), interest rates, market
value of Abbott's equity investments, and the performance of investments held by Abbott or Abbott's employee benefit trusts.     
           Changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to Abbott or Abbott's
employee benefit trusts.     
           Changes in business, economic, and political conditions, including: war, political instability, terrorist attacks in the
U.S. and other parts of the world, the threat of future terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of
insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor disputes, strikes, slow-downs, or other forms of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups.    
           Changes in Abbott's business units and investments and changes in the relative and absolute contribution of each to
earnings and cash flow resulting from evolving business strategies, changing product mix, changes in tax laws or tax rates both in the U.S. and abroad and opportunities existing now or in the future.    
           Changes in the buying patterns of a major distributor, retailer, or wholesale customer resulting from buyer purchasing
decisions, pricing, seasonality, or other factors, or other problems with licensors, suppliers, distributors, and business partners.     
           Difficulties related to Abbott's information technology systems, any of which could adversely affect business operations,
including any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction, loss of data privacy, or interruption of these systems.     
           Changes in credit markets impacting Abbott's ability to obtain financing for its business operations.    
           Legal difficulties, any of which could preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect profitability,
including claims asserting statutory or regulatory violations, adverse litigation decisions, and issues regarding compliance with any governmental consent decree.    

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS            

          This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations, estimates,
and projections. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "forecasts," variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify
these forward-looking statements. Certain factors, including but not limited to those identified under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K, may cause actual results to
differ materially from current expectations, estimates, projections, forecasts, and from past results. No assurance can be made that any expectation, estimate, or projection contained in a
forward-looking statement will be   

  13  

Table of Contents   

achieved
or will not be affected by the factors cited above or other future events. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of
subsequent events or developments.    

ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS            

          None.   

  14  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES            

          Abbott's corporate offices are located at 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400. The locations of Abbott's
principal plants, as of December 31, 2010, are listed below.   

Location    
     
   Segments of Products Produced    

Abbott Park, Illinois  
     
  Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Products  

Alameda, California*  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Alcobendas, Spain  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Altavista, Virginia  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Anasco, Puerto Rico  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Barceloneta, Puerto Rico  
     
  Pharmaceutical, Diagnostic, and Vascular Products  

Brockville, Canada  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Buenos Aires, Argentina  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Campoverde di Aprilia, Italy  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Casa Grande, Arizona  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Chatillon, France  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Clonmel, Ireland  
     
  Vascular Products  

Columbus, Ohio  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Cootehill, Ireland  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Dartford, England*  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Des Plaines, Illinois  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Fairfield, California*  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Granada, Spain  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Irving, Texas  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Jayuya, Puerto Rico  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Kanata, Ontario, Canada  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Karachi, Pakistan  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Katsuyama, Japan  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Longford, Ireland  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Ludwigshafen, Germany  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Milpitas, California*  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Murrieta, California  
     
  Vascular Products  

Neustadt, Germany  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

North Chicago, Illinois  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Olst, Netherlands  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Ottawa, Ontario, Canada*  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Redwood City, California*  
     
  Vascular Products  

Rio de Janeiro, Brazil  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Santa Clara, California  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Singapore  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Sligo, Ireland  
     
  Nutritional and Diagnostic Products  

Sturgis, Michigan  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Temecula, California  
     
  Vascular Products  

Tlalpan, Mexico  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Uppsala, Sweden  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Weesp, Netherlands  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Wiesbaden, Delkenheim, Germany  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Witney, Oxon, England  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Worcester, Massachusetts  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Zwolle, the Netherlands  
     
  Nutritional Products  

*    Leased
property    

In addition to the above, Abbott has manufacturing facilities in seven other locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, and in five
other countries outside the United States. Abbott's facilities are deemed suitable and provide adequate productive capacity.   

  15  

Table of Contents   

          In
the United States, including Puerto Rico, Abbott owns nine distribution centers. Outside the United States, Abbott owns ten distribution centers. Abbott also has
twenty-two United States research and development facilities located at: Abbott Park, Illinois; Alameda, California; Albuquerque, New Mexico; Carlsbad, California; Columbus, Ohio (two
locations); Des Plaines, Illinois; Fairfield, California; Irving, Texas; Long Grove, Illinois; Menlo Park, California; Milpitas, California; Mountain View, California; North Chicago, Illinois;
Princeton, New Jersey; Redwood City, California (two locations); Santa Ana, California; Santa Clara, California; South Irvine, California; Temecula, California; and Worcester, Massachusetts. Outside
the United States, Abbott has research and development facilities in Canada, China, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and
the United Kingdom.   

          Except
as noted, the corporate offices, and those principal plants in the United States listed above, are owned by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. The remaining manufacturing plants
and all other facilities are owned or leased by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. There are no material encumbrances on the properties.    

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS            

          Abbott is involved in various claims, legal proceedings and investigations, including (as of January 31, 2011, except where
noted below) those described below. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims, proceedings and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion that their
ultimate resolution should not have a material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations, except where noted below.   

          A
case is pending against Abbott in which New York University (NYU) and Centocor, Inc. assert that adalimumab (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark Humira )
infringes a patent co-owned by NYU and Centocor and exclusively licensed to Centocor. In June 2009, a jury found that Abbott had willfully infringed the patent and awarded NYU and Centocor
approximately $1.67 billion in past compensatory damages. In October 2009, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas overturned the jury's finding that Abbott's
infringement was willful, but denied Abbott's request to overturn the jury's verdict on validity, infringement, and damages. In December 2009, the district court issued a final judgment and awarded
the plaintiffs an additional $175 million in prejudgment interest. In December 2009, NYU and Centocor filed a separate action seeking enhanced damages and interest for the continuing sale of
Humira  after the jury verdict through July 11, 2011 when their patent expires. In December 2009, Abbott filed a
notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and oral argument in Abbott's appeal took place in November 2010. Abbott is confident in the merits of its case and
believes that it will prevail on appeal. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the outcome of this litigation, its ultimate resolution could be material to cash flows or results of
operations.   

          In
response to a patent infringement action filed in December 2008 by Bayer HealthCare LLC (Bayer) in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, in
January 2009 Abbott filed an action against Bayer in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts seeking a declaration that Bayer's patent is invalid, unenforceable, and not
infringed by Humira . The Massachusetts court consolidated the Texas case with the Massachusetts proceeding. Bayer seeks damages, including treble damages, but does not seek injunctive
relief. In January 2011, a Stipulation for Entry of Final Judgment was filed under which Bayer stipulated that Humira  does not infringe its patent in view of the District Court's modified
claims construction order, which was issued in December 2010. In February 2011, Bayer filed an appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit challenging the claims
construction order. Separately, in November 2009, Bayer filed infringement actions in the District Court of The Hague, The Netherlands and in the Regional Court in Dusseldorf, Germany, asserting that
Humira  infringes Bayer's European patent. In both European cases, Bayer seeks damages, but not injunctions. In March 2010, Abbott filed an action in the German Federal Patent Court asking
that Bayer's patent be revoked. In October 2010, the District Court of The Hague issued a decision invalidating Bayer's   

  16  

Table of Contents   

European
patent in the Netherlands. In November 2010, Bayer appealed that decision to the Court of Appeal in The Hague.   

Several
cases, brought as purported class actions or representative actions on behalf of individuals or entities, are pending against Abbott that allege generally that Abbott and
numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false pricing information in connection with certain drugs that are reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid and by private payors. These cases,
brought by private plaintiffs, state Attorneys General, and other state government entities, generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. The federal court cases have
been consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts under the Multi District Litigation Rules as    In re:
Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation, MDL 1456   . MDL 1456 includes: (a) two state Attorneys General suits, filed in August 2006
(   State of South Carolina)    and July 2009 (   State of Mississippi    on behalf of its state health plan); and
(b) a purported class action case in which the plaintiffs seek to certify nationwide classes of Medicare Part B consumers and third party payors and other consumers, filed in June 2003.
Eighteen named defendants, including Abbott, collectively settled this case, subject to final approval of the district court. In addition, several cases are pending against Abbott in state courts:     Commonwealth of
Kentucky   , filed in September 2003 in the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky;    State of
Wisconsin   , filed in June 2004 in the Circuit Court of Dane County, Wisconsin;    State of Illinois   , filed in February 2005 in the
Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois;    State of South Carolina    (on behalf of its state health plan), filed in August 2006 in the Court of Common Pleas,
Fifth Judicial Circuit of Richland County, South Carolina;    State of Alaska   , filed in October 2006 in the Superior Court for the Third Judicial District
in Anchorage, Alaska;    State of Idaho   , filed in January 2007 in the District Court of the Fourth Judicial District in Ada County, Idaho;     State of Utah   ,
filed in November 2007 in the Third Judicial District in Salt Lake County, Utah;    State of
Louisiana   , filed in October 2010 in the Nineteenth Judicial District, Parish of Baton
Rouge, Louisiana and    State of Oklahoma   , filed in September 2010 in the District Court of Pottawatomie County, Oklahoma. In 2010, Abbott settled the
civil whistle-blower suit brought by the United States Department of Justice, filed in May 2006 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida; the civil whistle-blower suit
brought by Ven-A-Care of the Florida Keys, Inc., unsealed against Abbott in August 2007 and in which the United States declined to intervene;     County of Erie   , filed in March 2005 in the Supreme
Court of Erie County, New York;    State of Mississippi   ,
filed in October 2005 in the Circuit Court of Rankin County, Mississippi;    State of Hawaii   , filed in April 2006 in the First Circuit Court of Hawaii;     County of
Oswego   , filed in August 2006 in the Supreme Court of Oswego County, New York;    County of
Schenectady   , filed in August 2006 in the Supreme Court of Schenectady County, New York; and    State of Kansas   , filed in October
2008 in the District Court of Wyandotte County, Kansas.   

          Several
lawsuits filed against Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company Abbott acquired in February 2010) et al. have been consolidated for
pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia under the Multi District Litigation Rules as    In re AndroGel Antitrust
Litigation   , MDL No. 2084. These cases, brought by private plaintiffs and the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"), generally allege Solvay's 2006 patent litigation involving
AndroGel was sham litigation and the patent litigation settlement agreement and related agreements with three generic companies violate federal and state antitrust laws and state consumer protection
and unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. MDL 2084 includes: (a) 3 individual plaintiff lawsuits:     Supervalu, Inc. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals,
 Inc. et al.   , was filed in April 2010 in the Northern District of Georgia; and     Rite Aid Corp. et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al.    and    Walgreen Co. et al. v. Unimed
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al.,    both of which were filed in February 2009 in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania; (b) 7
purported class actions:    Meijer, Inc. et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al., Rochester Drug Co-Operative, Inc. et al. v. Unimed
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al.,    and    Louisiana Wholesale Drug Co., Inc. et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et
al.,    all of which were filed in May 2009 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia;    Stephen L. LaFrance
Pharmacy, Inc. et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc.     

  17  

Table of Contents   

et al.,    filed in March 2009 in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey;    Fraternal Order of Police v. Unimed
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al.,    filed in September 2009 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia;    Jabo's
Pharmacy, Inc. v. Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al.,    filed in October 2009 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee; and     LeGrand v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals,
 Inc. et al.,    filed in September 2010 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia;
and (c) a lawsuit brought by the FTC,    Federal Trade Commission v. Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al.   , filed in May 2009 in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. In February 2010, Solvay's motion to dismiss the cases was partially granted and all of the FTC's claims and all of the plaintiffs' claims
except those alleging sham litigation were dismissed. In June 2010, the FTC appealed the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, and this appeal is pending. In
February 2010, two cases,    Scurto et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al.,    filed in March 2009 in the United States District Court for the
District of New Jersey, and    United Food   Com. Workers Unions   Employ. Midwest Health Benefits Fund et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et
al.,    filed in May 2009 in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, were dismissed.   

          Four
cases are pending against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California that allege antitrust violations in connection with the 2003 Norvir
re-pricing: (a) a consolidated class action filed on behalf of all direct purchasers by three individual plaintiffs,    Meijer, Inc.,     filed in November 2007,    Louisiana
Wholesale Drug Company, Inc.   , filed in December 2007, and     Rochester Drug Co-Operative, Inc.   , filed in November 2007; (b) two cases filed on behalf of director
purchaser class
opt-outs,    Rite Aid, Inc.   , filed in December 2007 and    Safeway, Inc.   , filed in
October 2007; and (c) one case filed by a competitor,    GlaxoSmithKline   , filed in November 2007. All of the cases have been consolidated for
discovery and trial. The plaintiffs seek damages, injunctive relief, and costs.   

          A
case is pending against Abbott under the name    Myla Nauman, Jane Roller and Michael Loughery v. Abbott Laboratories and
Hospira, Inc.    in which former Abbott employees alleged that (i) their transfer to Hospira, Inc., as part of Abbott's spin-off of Hospira,
adversely affected their employee benefits in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and (ii) Abbott's conduct in connection with their transfer breached a fiduciary duty to
plaintiffs involving employee benefits. The plaintiffs generally sought reinstatement as Abbott employees, or reinstatement as participants in Abbott's employee benefit plans, and an award of the
employee benefits they have allegedly lost. In April 2010, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois entered judgment in favor of Abbott on all counts. The plaintiffs have
appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.   

          In
December 2010, Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. settled an investigation of its sales and marketing practices initiated by the Office of the Inspector General of the United States
Department of Health and Human Services in conjunction with the United States Department of Justice, and the United States Attorneys for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, the Western District of
Louisiana, and the Middle District of Louisiana. The settlement related to conduct that occurred prior to Abbott's December 2006 acquisition of Kos.   

          The
United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney for Maryland, is investigating the sales and marketing practices of Abbott for Micardis , a drug
co-promoted for (until March 31, 2006) and manufactured by Boehringer Ingelheim. The government is seeking to determine whether any of these practices resulted in any violations of
civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, in connection with the Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties.   

          The
United States Department of Justice, through the Unites States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia, is investigating Abbott's sales and marketing activities for Depakote.
The government is seeking to determine whether any of these activities violated civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, the Food and Drug Cosmetic Act, and the
Anti-Kickback Statute in connection with Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement to third parties.   

  18  

Table of Contents   

          The
United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts, is investigating the sales and marketing activities of Abbott's and other
companies' biliary stent products. The government is seeking to determine whether any of these activities violated civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, the Food and Drug
Cosmetic Act, and the Anti-Kickback Statute in connection with Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties.   

          In
2007, Johnson   Johnson, Inc. and Cordis Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson   Johnson (collectively Johnson   Johnson), filed suits against
Abbott in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey asserting infringement of four Johnson   Johnson patents by Abbott's Xience V stent and seeking an injunction, damages,
and a determination of willful infringement. In January 2010, the New Jersey court issued an Order of Judgment finding the four patents invalid and dismissing the suits against Abbott. In January
2008, Cordis Corporation and Wyeth filed suit against Abbott in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging the Xience V stent infringes three additional patents and
seeking an injunction, damages, and a determination of willful infringement. In September 2009, Wyeth, Cordis Corporation, and Cordis LLC filed suit against Abbott in the United States District
Court for the District of New Jersey alleging the Xience V stent infringes an additional patent, and in August 2010 the plaintiffs amended their lawsuit to add a second related patent to this case.
The plaintiffs in this case also seek an injunction and damages. Abbott denies all substantive allegations in each case.   

          A
case brought by Wall Cardiovascular Technologies, LLC (Wall) in July 2008 was pending against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas in
which Wall asserted that Abbott's Xience V stent infringes a patent. In December 2010, the parties settled the case and it was dismissed with prejudice.   

          In
December 2008, Medinol Limited (Medinol) sued Abbott in the High Court of Ireland, the District Court of The Hague, The Netherlands, and the Regional Court in Dusseldorf, Germany
asserting that Abbott's Vision and Xience V stents infringe one of Medinol's European stent design patents. Medinol has since accused Abbott's Multi-Link 8 and Xience Prime stents of
infringement. In Germany, Medinol further asserts that Abbott's Vision, Xience V, Penta, Xience Prime, Multi-Link 8, and Zeta stents infringe two Medinol German stent design patents and
one Medinol German stent design utility model. Medinol seeks damages and injunctions in Ireland and The Netherlands and seeks damages in Germany. Abbott initiated an action in the German Federal
Patent Court seeking a declaration that Medinol's patents are invalid. Abbott also initiated an action in the High Court of Justice in the United Kingdom asserting that Abbott's stents do not infringe
Medinol's European patent and two other Medinol patents which were previously revoked at the European Patent Office and seeking a declaration that all three Medinol patents are invalid. In Ireland,
Abbott asserts that Medinol's European patent is invalid and not infringed. In December 2009, the Dutch court found that Abbott's stents do not infringe Medinol's European patent but did not rule on
the patent's validity. Medinol has filed a notice of appeal of the Dutch court's finding that Abbott's stents do not infringe Medinol's patent. In March 2010, the Dusseldorf court, which does not
assess the validity of patents, found that Abbott's stents do not infringe Medinol's European patent, but that they do infringe two of Medinol's German stent design patents. Medinol has appealed the
non-infringement decision and Abbott has appealed the infringement decisions. In November and December 2010, the German Federal Patent Court held two invalidity hearings on the three
patents being asserted by Medinol in Germany. In January 2011, the German Federal Patent Court found all three Medinol patents invalid. However, after allowing Medinol to modify the claims for one of
its German patents, the court concluded that the modified claims of that patent were valid. In October 2010, the United Kingdom court found that Abbott's products do not infringe any of the three
Medinol patents and that one of the two previously revoked patents is invalid. Abbott denies all substantive allegations in each remaining case.   

Abbott
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to fenofibrate tablets (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark Tricor ). In a case filed in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois in February 2008, Abbott and the patent owner, Laboratories Fournier, S.A. (Fournier), allege   

  19  

Table of Contents   

infringement
of three patents and seek injunctive relief against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. In November 2009, the parties reached a settlement and this case was dismissed. In a second case
filed in the Northern District of Illinois in November 2008, Abbott and Fournier allege infringement of the three patents and seek injunctive relief against Biovail Laboratories International SRL.
This case has been transferred to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. In a third case filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in March
2009, Abbott and Fournier allege infringement of the three patents and seek injunctive relief against Lupin Pharmaceuticals and Lupin Limited. In a fourth case filed in the United States District
Court for the District of New Jersey in October 2009, Abbott and Fournier allege infringement of the three patents and seek injunctive relief against Impax Laboratories. In a case filed in June 2010
in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, Abbott and Fournier allege infringement of three patents and seek injunctive relief against Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.,
Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Ranbaxy Inc. In a case filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in July 2010, Abbott and Fournier allege infringement of
three patents and seek injunctive relief against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. (Teva). In related cases where Abbott became involved through its acquisition of Fournier Laboratoires
Ireland Ltd. (Fournier Ireland), Abbott is seeking to enforce additional rights relating to fenofibrate tablets. These cases were filed in the United States District Court for the District of
New Jersey by joint patent owners Elan Pharma International Ltd. (Elan) and Fournier Ireland against Biovail Laboratories International SRL and Biovail Corporation in November 2008, Lupin
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Lupin Limited in March 2009, Impax Laboratories, Inc. in October 2009, Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd., Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc. and
Ranbaxy Inc. in June 2010, and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. in July 2010. Elan and Fournier Ireland allege infringement of two jointly-owned patents and one Elan patent and seek
injunctive relief.   

          Abbott
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to ritonavir/lopinavir tablets (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark Kaletra ). In cases filed in the United States
District Courts for the Northern District of Illinois and for the District of Delaware in March 2009, Abbott alleges that Matrix Laboratories, Inc., Matrix Laboratories, Ltd., and
Mylan, Inc.'s proposed generic products infringe
Abbott's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. The case in Delaware was dismissed in April 2009. Upon Matrix's motion in November 2009, the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois granted a five-year stay of the litigation unless good cause to lift the stay is shown.   

          Abbott
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to niacin extended release tablets (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark Niaspan ). In a case filed in the United
States District Court for the District of Delaware in March 2009, Abbott alleges that Lupin Pharmaceuticals and Lupin Limited's proposed generic products infringe Abbott's patents and seeks
declaratory and injunctive relief. In February 2010, Abbott filed a case in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited's and Sun
Pharma Global FZE's generic product infringes Abbott's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. In a case filed in June 2010 in the United States District Court for the District of
Delaware, Abbott alleges Sandoz, Inc.'s proposed generic product infringes Abbott's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief.   

          Abbott
is seeking to enforce certain patent rights that cover the use of fully human anti-TNF alpha antibodies with methotrexate to treat rheumatoid arthritis. In a case
filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts in May 2009, Abbott alleges Centocor Inc.'s product Simponi  infringes Abbott's patents and seeks damages
and injunctive relief. The case was stayed at Centocor's request while the parties arbitrated issues related to Centocor's license defenses. In June 2010 the arbitrator ruled, the Court lifted the
stay, and the patent infringement case is proceeding.    

ITEM 4.    (REMOVED AND RESERVED)            

  20  

Table of Contents    

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT            

          Executive officers of Abbott are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers are elected by the board or appointed
by the chairman of the board. All officers are either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual shareholder meeting or appointed by the chairman after that board
meeting. Each officer holds office until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officer's death, resignation, or removal. Vacancies may be filled at any time by the
board. Any officer may be removed by the board of directors when, in its judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. Any officer appointed by the chairman of the board may be removed
by the chairman whenever, in the chairman's judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. A vacancy in any office appointed by the chairman of the board may be filled by the chairman.   

          Abbott's
executive officers, their ages as of February 18, 2011, and the dates of their first election as officers of Abbott are listed below. The executive officers' principal
occupations and employment for the past five years and the year of appointment to the earliest reported office are also shown. Unless otherwise stated, employment was by Abbott. There are no family
relationships between any corporate officers or directors.   

    Miles D. White, 55     

1999
to present   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Director.   

Elected
Corporate Officer   1993.   

Richard W. Ashley, 67     

2004
to present   Executive Vice President, Corporate Development.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2004.   

John M. Capek, 49     

2007
to present   Executive Vice President, Medical Devices.   

2006
to 2007   Senior Vice President, Abbott Vascular.   

  2006  
Vice President and President, Cardiac Therapies.   

  2005
to 2006   President, Guidant Vascular Intervention.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2006.   

Thomas C. Freyman, 56     

2004
to present   Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1991.   

Richard A. Gonzalez, 57     

2010
to present   Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group.   

  2009
to present   President, Abbott Ventures Inc.   

  2007
to 2009   Retired.   

  2006
to 2007   President and Chief Operating Officer, and Director.   

2002
to 2006   President and Chief Operating Officer, Medical Products Group, and Director.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2010.   

21  

Table of Contents   

John C. Landgraf, 58     

2011
to present   Executive Vice President, Nutritional Products.   

  2008
to 2010   Senior Vice President, Pharmaceuticals, Manufacturing and Supply.   

  2004
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and Supply.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2000.   

Edward L. Michael, 54     

2008
to present   Executive Vice President, Diagnostic Products.   

  2007
to 2008   Executive Vice President, Diagnostics.   

  2007  
Senior Vice President, Medical Products.   

  2003
to 2007   Vice President and President, Molecular Diagnostics.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1997.   

Laura J. Schumacher, 47     

2007
to present   Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.   

  2005
to 2007   Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2003.   

Carlos Alban, 48     

2009
to present   Senior Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals.   

2008
to 2009   Vice President, Pharmaceuticals, Western Europe and Canada.   

  2007
to 2008   Vice President, Western Europe and Canada.   

  2006
to 2007   Vice President, Pharmaceutical European Operations.   

  2004
to 2006   Regional Director, North Europe.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2006.   

Brian J. Blaser, 46     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, Diagnostics.   

  2008
to 2010   Vice President, Diagnostics, Operations.   

  2008  
Divisional Vice President, Global Operations.   

  2007
to 2008   Divisional Vice President, Manufacturing.   

  2004
to 2007   Divisional Vice President, Strategic Operations Improvement.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2008.   

A. David Forrest, 49     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, International Nutrition.   

  2007
to 2010   Divisional Vice President, Europe   Canada.   

22  

Table of Contents   

2004
to 2007   General Manager, United Kingdom.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2010.   

Stephen R. Fussell, 53     

2005
to present   Senior Vice President, Human Resources.   

Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

Robert B. Hance, 51     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, Vascular.   

  2006
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Diabetes Care Operations.   

  2006  
Vice President and President, Vascular Solutions.   

  2003
to 2006   Vice President and President, Abbott Vascular Devices.   

Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

Heather L. Mason, 50     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, Diabetes Care.   

  2007
to 2008   Vice President, Latin America Pharmaceuticals.   

  2005
to 2007   Vice President, International Marketing.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

James V. Mazzo, 53     

2009
to present   Senior Vice President, Abbott Medical Optics.   

  2006
to 2009   Chairman of the Board of Directors, Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (a global leader in the 
                           development, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices for the eye).   

  2004
to 2009   Chief Executive Officer, Advanced Medical Optics, Inc.   

2004
to 2007   President, Advanced Medical Optics, Inc.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2009.   

Donald V. Patton Jr., 58     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals.   

  2007
to 2009   Senior Vice President, U.S. Nutrition.   

  2007  
Senior Vice President, Abbott Nutrition Products Division.   

2006
to 2007   Vice President, Diagnostic Global Commercial Operations.   

  2005
to 2006   Vice President, International Marketing.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2004.   

23  

Table of Contents   

    Mary T. Szela, 47     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, Global Strategic Marketing and Services, Pharmaceutical Products Group.   

  2008
to 2009   Senior Vice President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals.   

  2007
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations.   

  2006  
Vice President, Commercial Pharmaceutical Operations.   

2001
to 2006   Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products, Primary Care Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

Michael J. Warmuth, 48     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, Established Products, Pharmaceutical Products Group.   

  2008
to 2010   Senior Vice President, Diagnostics.   

  2008  
Vice President, Hematology Diagnostics.   

  2007
to 2008   Vice President, Global Engineering Services.   

  2006
to 2007   Divisional Vice President, Global Engineering Services.   

  2004
to 2006   Divisional Vice President of Quality, Global Pharmaceutical Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2007.   

J. Scott White, 42     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, U.S. Nutrition.   

2007
to 2009   Division Vice President and Regional Director for Latin America, Abbott Nutrition International.   

  2005
to 2007   Division Vice President and General Manager for Pediatric Nutrition, U.S. Nutrition.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2009.   

Greg W. Linder, 54     

2001
to present   Vice President and Controller.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

24  

Table of Contents    

PART II            

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES            

    Principal Market     

          The principal market for Abbott's common shares is the New York Stock Exchange. Shares are also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange
and traded on various regional and electronic exchanges. Outside the United States, Abbott's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Swiss Stock Exchange.   

Shareholders     

          There were 64,413 shareholders of record of Abbott common shares as of December 31, 2010.   

    Dividends     

          Quarterly dividends of $.44 and $.40 per share were declared on common shares in 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

Abbott
Laboratories is an Illinois High Impact Business (HIB) and is located in a federal Foreign Trade Sub-Zone (Sub-Zone 22F). Dividends may be eligible for a
subtraction from base income for Illinois income tax purposes. If you have questions, please contact your tax advisor.   

  25  

Table of Contents   

    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

1.    These
shares represent:

(i)    the
shares deemed surrendered to Abbott to pay the exercise price in connection with the exercise of employee stock options   88,848 in
October; 56,568 in November; and 31,850 in December; and
      (ii)    the
shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the Abbott Laboratories, Limited Employee Stock Purchase
Plan   0 in October; 22,500 in November; and 30,000 in December.     

These
shares do not include the shares surrendered to Abbott to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units.   

2.    On
October 13, 2008, Abbott announced that its board of directors approved the purchase of up to $5 billion of its common shares, from time to
time.    

26  

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA            

1.    In
2006, Abbott recorded pre-tax charges of $2,014 for acquired in-process and collaborations research and development primarily
related to the acquisition of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc.    

27  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS            

Financial Review            

          Abbott's revenues are derived primarily from the sale of a broad line of health care products under short-term receivable
arrangements. Patent protection and licenses, technological and performance features, and inclusion of Abbott's products under a contract or by a pharmacy benefit manager most impact which products
are sold; price controls, competition and rebates most impact the net selling prices of products; and foreign currency translation impacts the measurement of net sales and costs. Abbott's primary
products are prescription pharmaceuticals, nutritional products, diagnostic testing products and vascular products. Sales in international markets are approximately 55 percent of consolidated
net sales.   

          Continued
robust growth of    HUMIRA    after the worldwide launch of additional indications, the acquisitions of Solvay's pharmaceuticals
business (Solvay Pharmaceuticals), Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business, and Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., the launch of the    Xience
V    drug eluting stent, the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture, the loss of patent protection for some pharmaceutical products, and the
challenging economic environment in many countries around the world have impacted Abbott's sales, costs and financial position over the last three years.   

          Pharmaceutical
research and development is focused on therapeutic areas that include immunology, oncology, neuroscience, pain management, hepatitis C (HCV), chronic kidney disease and
women's health. In 2003, Abbott began the worldwide launch of    HUMIRA    for rheumatoid arthritis, followed by launches for five additional indications,
which increased    HUMIRA's    worldwide sales to $6.5 billion in 2010 compared to $5.5 billion in 2009, and $4.5 billion in 2008. Abbott
forecasts growth in the low teens for worldwide    HUMIRA    sales in 2011. Abbott is studying additional indications for     HUMIRA   . Substantial research and
development and selling support has been and continues to be dedicated to maximizing the worldwide potential of     HUMIRA   . Increased generic competition has resulted in U.S.    Depakote    sales declining from
$1.3 billion in 2008 to $161 million in 2010. Austerity measures implemented by several European countries reduced healthcare spending and affected pharmaceutical pricing in the second
half of 2010 and that impact is expected to continue for all of 2011.   

          In
February 2010, Abbott acquired Solvay Pharmaceuticals which provided Abbott with a large and complementary portfolio of pharmaceutical products and expanded Abbott's presence in key
global emerging markets. The acquisition added approximately $3.1 billion to Abbott's 2010 total sales, primarily outside the U.S. In 2010, Abbott recorded approximately $710 million of
expense related to the integration of the Solvay business and a restructuring plan announced in September to streamline operations, improve efficiencies and reduce costs primarily in certain Solvay
sites and functions. The restructuring plan is further described below. In September 2010 Abbott completed the acquisition of Piramal's Healthcare Solutions business, propelling Abbott to market
leadership in the Indian pharmaceutical market and further accelerating the company's growth in emerging markets.   

          In
2007, Abbott's nutritional products businesses were reorganized into a worldwide business to better leverage the opportunities available for strong nutritional brands. Significant
efforts have been focused on capturing those opportunities, particularly in developing markets where growth has been strong.   

          In
2008, Abbott received FDA approval to market the    Xience V    drug eluting stent in the U.S. and in 2006 received European Union approval.     Xience V    became the
market-leading drug eluting stent in the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2008. In June 2009,    Xience
PRIME   , Abbott's next generation drug eluting stent, received CE Mark approval and was launched in Europe in August 2009. Abbott received approval to market     Xience V    in Japan in
January 2010 and    Xience V    became the market-leading drug eluting stent in Japan in
the second quarter of 2010.   

          In
2010, the U.S. government passed health care reform legislation which included an increase in Medicaid rebate rates and the extension of the rebate to drugs provided through Medicaid
managed care   

  28  

Table of Contents   

organizations
beginning in 2010. The legislation also imposes annual fees to be paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers and medical device companies beginning in 2011 and 2013, respectively, as well as
additional rebates related to the Medicare Part D "donut hole" beginning in 2011. In addition to a one-time charge of approximately $60 million to reduce deferred tax assets
associated with retiree health care liabilities related to the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy, the legislation negatively impacted Abbott's performance by more than $200 million in
2010 and that is expected to increase to more than $400 million in 2011.   

          Abbott's
short- and long-term debt totaled $18.9 billion at December 31, 2010, largely incurred to finance acquisitions. Operating cash flows in excess of
capital expenditures and cash dividends have partially funded acquisitions over the last three years. At December 31, 2010, Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard and
Poor's Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investors Service.   

          In
April 2008, Abbott and Takeda concluded their TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (TAP) joint venture, evenly splitting the value and assets of the joint venture in a
tax-free exchange. Abbott received TAP's    Lupron    business in exchange for Abbott's 50 percent ownership in TAP.     Lupron's    U.S. results are included in
the Pharmaceutical Products segment beginning in May 2008. Abbott also receives payments based on specified
development, approval and commercial events being achieved with respect to products retained by Takeda and payments from Takeda based on sales of products retained by Takeda.   

In
2011, Abbott will focus on several key initiatives. In the pharmaceutical business, Abbott will continue to build its global presence, expand its presence in emerging markets and
diversify its sources of growth with the Solvay Pharmaceuticals and Piramal Healthcare Solutions acquisitions. Abbott will
also continue maximizing the market potential for    HUMIRA   . Pharmaceutical research and development efforts will continue to focus a significant portion
of expenditures on compounds for immunology, oncology, neuroscience, pain management, HCV, chronic kidney disease and women's health. Such compounds include one Phase III compound for multiple
sclerosis, one Phase III compound and three Phase II compounds in oncology, three Phase II compounds targeting HCV, three Phase II compounds targeting Alzheimer's disease
or cognitive disorders of schizophrenia, two Phase II compounds targeting chronic kidney disease, and one Phase II compound each in women's health and pain management. In the vascular
business, Abbott will continue to focus on marketing    Xience PRIME    in Europe and other markets, obtaining regulatory review of     Xience Nano   ,    Xience PRIME   , and the    MitraClip    device in
the U.S. and a limited European roll-out as well as further clinical development of    ABSORB   , its bioresorbable vascular scaffold (BVS)
device. In the other business segments, Abbott will focus on developing or acquiring differentiated technologies in higher growth segments of those markets.   

    Critical Accounting Policies     

            Sales Rebates       Approximately 50 percent of Abbott's consolidated gross revenues are subject to various forms of rebates and
allowances that Abbott records as reductions of revenues at the time of sale. Most of these rebates and allowances are in the Pharmaceutical Products segment and the Nutritional Products segment.
Abbott provides rebates to pharmacy benefit management companies, state agencies that administer the federal Medicaid program, insurance companies that administer Medicare drug plans, state agencies
that administer the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), wholesalers, group purchasing organizations, and other government agencies and private entities.
Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices for a product. Factors used in the rebate calculations include the identification of which products
have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government agency price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a rebate. Using historical trends, adjusted for
current changes, Abbott estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when Abbott records its sale of the product. Settlement of the
rebate generally occurs from two to 24 months after sale. Abbott regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate
programs. Rebates and chargebacks   

  29  

Table of Contents   

  charged
against gross sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008 amounted to approximately $4.9 billion, $4.4 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, or 23.1 percent, 23.8 percent
and 22.8 percent, respectively, based on gross sales of approximately $21.1 billion, $18.4 billion and $16.8 billion, respectively, subject to rebate. A
one-percentage point increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales would decrease net sales by approximately $211 million in 2010. Abbott considers a
one-percentage point increase to be a reasonably likely increase in the percentage of
rebates to related gross sales. Other allowances charged against gross sales were approximately $415 million, $414 million and $362 million for cash discounts in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively, and $537 million, $456 million and $439 million for returns in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Cash discounts are known within 15 to 30 days of sale,
and therefore can be reliably estimated. Returns can be reliably estimated because Abbott's historical returns are low, and because sales returns terms and other sales terms have remained relatively
unchanged for several periods.   

          Management
analyzes the adequacy of ending rebate accrual balances each quarter. In the domestic nutritional business, management uses both internal and external data available to
estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel. Management has access to several large customers' inventory management data, and for other customers, utilizes data from a third party that
measures time on the retail shelf. These sources allow management to make reliable estimates of inventory in the distribution channel. Except for a transition period before or after a change in the
supplier for the WIC business in a state, inventory in the distribution channel does not vary substantially. Management also estimates the states' processing lag time based on claims data. In
addition, internal processing time is a factor in estimating the accrual. In the WIC business, the state where the sale is made, which is the determining factor for the applicable price, is reliably
determinable. Estimates are required for the amount of WIC sales within each state where Abbott has the WIC business. External data sources utilized for that estimate are participant data from the
U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which administers the WIC program, participant data from some of the states, and internally administered market research. The USDA has been making its data
available for many years. Internal data includes historical redemption rates and pricing data. At December 31, 2010, Abbott had the exclusive WIC business in 23 states.   

In
the domestic pharmaceutical business, the most significant charges against gross sales are for Medicaid and Medicare Rebates, Pharmacy Benefit Manager Rebates and Wholesaler
Chargebacks. In order to evaluate the adequacy of the ending accrual balances, management uses both internal and external data to estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel and the
rebate claims processing lag time. External data sources used to estimate the inventory in the distribution channel include inventory levels periodically reported by wholesalers and third party market
data purchased by Abbott. Management estimates the processing lag time based on periodic sampling of claims data. To estimate the price rebate percentage, systems and calculations are used to track
sales by product by customer and to estimate the contractual or statutory price. Abbott's systems and calculations have developed over time as rebates have become more significant, and Abbott believes
they are reliable.   

          The
following table is an analysis of the four largest rebate accruals, which comprise approximately 69 percent of the consolidated rebate provisions charged against revenues in
2010. Remaining rebate   

  30  

Table of Contents   

provisions
charged against gross sales are not significant in the determination of operating earnings. (   dollars in millions   )   

Historically,
adjustments to prior years' rebate accruals have not been material to net income. Abbott employs various techniques to verify the accuracy of claims submitted to it, and
where possible, works with the organizations submitting claims to gain insight into changes that might affect the rebate amounts. For Medicaid, Medicare and other government agency programs, the
calculation of a rebate involves interpretations of relevant regulations, which are subject to challenge or change in interpretation.   

Income Taxes       Abbott operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audits and adjustments. Because Abbott
operates globally, the nature of the audit items are often very complex, and the objectives of the government auditors can result in a tax on the same income in more than one country. Abbott employs
internal and external tax professionals to minimize audit adjustment amounts where possible. In accordance with the accounting rules relating to the measurement of tax contingencies, in order to
recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest amount that is more than
50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit. Application of these rules requires a significant amount of judgment. In the U.S., Abbott's federal income tax returns through
2005 are settled, and the income tax returns for years after 2005 are open. Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries.   

            Pension and Post-Employment Benefits       Abbott offers pension benefits and post-employment health care to many of
its employees. Abbott engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under these programs. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most
significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rates and the expected return on plan assets. The discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on
high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The health care cost trend rates represent Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the
cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A difference between the assumed rates and the actual rates, which will not be known for
decades, can be significant in relation to the obligations and the annual cost recorded for these programs. Negative asset returns in 2008 due to poor market conditions and low interest rates have
significantly increased actuarial losses for these plans. At December 31, 2010, pretax net actuarial losses and prior service costs and (credits) recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) for Abbott's defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans were losses of $2.9 billion and $307 million, respectively. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the
remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method, in accordance with the rules for accounting for post-employment benefits. Differences between the expected
long-term return on plan   

  31  

Table of Contents   

assets
and the actual annual return are amortized over a five-year period. Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements describes the impact of a one-percentage point
change in the health care cost trend rate; however, there can be no certainty that a change would be limited to only one percentage point.   

Valuation of Intangible Assets       Abbott has acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets that Abbott records at fair
value. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the health care field and valuations are usually based on a discounted cash flow
analysis. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, terminal
values and market participants. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. Abbott engages independent valuation experts who review Abbott's critical assumptions
and calculations for acquisitions of significant intangibles. Abbott reviews definite-lived intangible assets for impairment each quarter using an undiscounted net cash flows approach. If the
undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is usually the discounted cash
flow amount. Where cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest group level for which cash flows are identifiable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets, which relate to in-process research and development acquired in a business combination, are reviewed for impairment annually or when an event that could result in an
impairment occurs. At December 31, 2010, goodwill and intangibles amounted to $15.9 billion and $12.2 billion, respectively, and amortization expense for intangible assets
amounted to $1.4 billion in 2010. There were no impairments of goodwill in 2010, 2009 or 2008.   

Litigation       Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification No. 450,
"Contingencies." Under ASC No. 450, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss
contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period as additional
information becomes known. Accordingly, Abbott is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes
known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate
amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected. Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately
$75 million to $115 million for its legal proceedings and environmental exposures. Reserves of approximately $95 million have been recorded at December 31, 2010 for these
proceedings and exposures. These reserves represent management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by FASB ASC No. 450, "Contingencies."   

Stock Compensation       Abbott records the fair value of stock options in its results of operations. Since there is no market for trading
employee stock options, management must use a fair value method. There is no certainty that the results of a fair value method would be the value at which employee stock options would be traded for
cash. Fair value methods require management to make several assumptions, the most significant of which are the selection of a fair value model, stock price volatility and the average life of an
option. Abbott has readily available grant-by-grant historical activity for several years in its option administration system that it uses in developing some of its
assumptions. Abbott uses the Black-Scholes model to value stock options. Abbott uses both historical volatility of its stock price and the implied volatility of traded options to develop the
volatility assumptions. Abbott uses the historical grant activity, combined with expectations about future exercise activity, to develop the average life assumptions. Abbott has also used the
historical grant data to evaluate whether certain holders of stock options exercised their options differently than other holders and has not found any differentiating pattern among holders.   

  32  

Table of Contents    

Results of Operations     

    Sales     

          The following table details the components of sales growth by reportable segment for the last three years:   

Worldwide
sales growth in 2010 reflects the acquisition of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business on February 15, 2010, unit growth and the positive effect of the relatively weaker
U.S. dollar. Worldwide sales growth in 2009 reflects unit growth and the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. on February 25, 2009, partially offset by the negative effect of the
relatively stronger U.S. dollar. Worldwide, U.S. and Pharmaceutical Products segment sales also reflect decreased sales of    Depakote    due to generic
competition in 2009. Excluding U.S.    Depakote    sales, worldwide sales increased 7.7 percent, U.S. sales increased 7.6 percent and
Pharmaceutical Products segment sales increased 4.3 percent from 2008 to 2009.   

  33  

Table of Contents   

Worldwide
2008 sales growth reflects unit growth and the positive effect of the relatively weaker U.S. dollar.   

A
comparison of significant product group sales is as follows. Percent changes are versus the prior year and are based on unrounded numbers.   

Decreased
sales of    Depakote    due to generic competition impacted U.S. Specialty product sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008 and lower sales of     Zemplar   ,    Kaletra    and    Lupron    affected U.S. Specialty
product sales in 2010. These were partially offset by increased sales of    HUMIRA    in all three years and the addition of     Lupron    sales from the conclusion of
the TAP joint venture in April 2008 which increased U.S. Specialty product sales in 2009 and 2008. U.S. sales of
   HUMIRA    were $2.8 billion, $2.5 billion and $2.2 billion in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, and U.S. sales of     Depakote    were
$161 million, $331 million and $1.3 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. U.S. Primary Care sales were
impacted by the discontinuation of    Azmacort    and generic competition for    Cardizem LA    in 2010, by
decreased sales of    Synthroid    in 2009 and 2008 and by decreased sales of    Omnicef    and     Biaxin    in 2008 due to
generic competition. These were partially offset in all three years by increased sales of     Niaspan    and in 2010 and 2008 by higher    TriCor/Trilipix    franchise
sales. Increased sales volume of
   HUMIRA    in 2010, 2009 and 2008 favorably impacted International Pharmaceuticals sales, partially offset by decreased sales of clarithromycin.
International sales of    HUMIRA    were $3.7 billion, $3.0 billion and $2.3 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The relatively
weaker dollar increased International Pharmaceutical sales in 2010 and 2008 by 1.9 percent and 7.3 percent, respectively. The relatively stronger U.S. dollar decreased International
Pharmaceutical sales in 2009 by 8.6 percent. International Pediatric Nutritionals sales increases were due primarily to volume growth in developing countries. U.S. Pediatric Nutritionals sales
in 2010 were affected by the voluntary recall of certain Similac-brand powder infant formulas in September 2010. International Adult Nutritionals sales and Immunochemistry sales in 2010 and 2008 were
positively impacted by the effect of the relatively weaker U.S. dollar and were negatively impacted in 2009 by the effect of the relatively stronger U.S. dollar. Abbott has periodically sold product
rights to non-strategic products and has recorded the related gains in net sales in accordance with Abbott's revenue recognition policies as discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements. Related net sales were approximately $58 million, $120 million and $111 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

          The
expiration of licenses, patent protection and generic competition can affect the future revenues and operating income of Abbott. There are currently no significant patent or license
expirations in the next three years. Under a license agreement for    TriCor    145 mg, generic competition could begin as early as March 2011 but is not
expected until July 2012. Under an agreement relating to Abbott's niacin products   

  34  

Table of Contents   

and
acquired with the Kos Pharmaceuticals acquisition,    Niaspan    may become subject to generic competition in September 2013.   

Operating Earnings     

          Gross profit margins were 58.3 percent of net sales in 2010, 57.1 percent in 2009 and 57.3 percent in 2008. The
increase in the gross profit margin in 2010 was due, in part, to improved margins in the pharmaceutical, vascular, diabetes and diagnostics businesses and the favorable effect of exchange on the gross
profit margin ratio. The decrease in the gross profit margin in 2009 was due, in part, to the negative impact from lower sales of    Depakote    and the
unfavorable effect of exchange on the gross profit margin ratio; partially offset by improved margins in the vascular and diagnostics businesses. The increase in the gross profit margin in 2008 was
due, in part, to favorable product mix and the favorable impact of foreign exchange.   

In
the U.S., states receive price rebates from manufacturers of infant formula under the federally subsidized Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children.
There are also rebate programs for pharmaceutical products. These rebate programs continue to have a negative effect on the gross profit margins of the Nutritional and Pharmaceutical Products
segments.   

          Research
and development expense was $3.724 billion in 2010, $2.744 billion in 2009 and $2.689 billion in 2008 and represented increases of 35.7 percent in
2010, 2.0 percent in 2009 and 7.3 percent in 2008. Excluding charges related to the Solvay restructurings announced in September 2010, research and development expenses in 2010 increased
29.4 percent. This increase, exclusive of the effects of the restructuring charges, reflects the acquisitions of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business in February 2010 and Facet Biotech in April
2010. The increase in 2009 reflects the favorable effect of exchange rates which reduced research and development expense in 2009. Excluding the effect of exchange, research and development expenses
increased 3.4 percent in 2009. The increases in 2010, 2009 and 2008 also reflect continued pipeline spending, including programs in vascular devices, biologics, neuroscience, oncology and
hepatitis C. The majority of research and development expenditures are concentrated on pharmaceutical products.   

          Selling,
general and administrative expenses increased 23.4 percent in 2010, decreased 0.4 percent in 2009 and increased 13.9 percent in 2008. Excluding charges
related to the Solvay restructuring and integration charges, selling, general and administrative expenses in 2010 increased 18.2 percent. This increase, exclusive of the effects of the
restructuring and integration charges, reflects the acquisitions of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business in 2010 and Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. in 2009 and higher provisions for litigation in
2010. The 2009 decrease reflects the favorable effect of exchange rates which was offset by expenses relating to the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. and the settlement of
litigation. Excluding the effects of the charges and exchange, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 0.9 percent in 2009. The 2008 increase reflects the settlement of
litigation relating to    TriCor   , which increased selling, general and administration expenses by 3.1 percentage points. The remaining increases in
selling, general and administrative expenses were due primarily to increased selling and marketing support for new and existing products, including continued spending for     HUMIRA    and    Xience V   , and inflation.   

    Conclusion of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Joint Venture and Sale of Abbott's Spine Business     

          On April 30, 2008, Abbott and Takeda concluded their TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (TAP) joint venture, evenly
splitting the value and assets of the joint venture. Abbott exchanged its 50 percent equity interest in TAP for the assets, liabilities and employees related to TAP's     Lupron    business. Subsequent to
the conclusion of the joint venture, TAP was merged into two Takeda entities. The exchange of Abbott's investment in TAP
for TAP's    Lupron    business resulted in a gain at closing of approximately $94 million. The Internal Revenue Service has issued a private letter
ruling that the transaction qualifies as tax-free for U.S. income tax purposes.   

  35  

Table of Contents    

          Beginning on May 1, 2008, Abbott began recording U.S.    Lupron    net sales and costs in its operating results
and no longer records income from the TAP joint venture. TAP's sales of    Lupron    were $182 million for the four months ended April 30, 2008.
Abbott also receives payments based on specified development, approval and commercial events being achieved with respect to products retained by Takeda and payments from Takeda based on sales of
products retained by Takeda, which are recorded by Abbott as Other (income) expense, net when the specified event is achieved or as the applicable sales are made.   

The
exchange transaction was accounted for as a sale of Abbott's equity interest in TAP and as an acquisition of TAP's    Lupron    business.
The sale of Abbott's equity interest in TAP resulted in the recording of net assets related to the    Lupron    business, primarily cash, receivables,
inventory and other assets, net of accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, offset by a credit to Abbott's investment in TAP in the amount of approximately $280 million.   

          For
the acquired    Lupron    business, Abbott recorded intangible assets, primarily    Lupron   
product rights, of approximately $700 million, goodwill of approximately $350 million and deferred tax liabilities related primarily to the intangible assets of approximately
$260 million. The intangible assets are being amortized over 15 years. Abbott agreed to remit cash to Takeda if certain research and development events were not achieved on the
development assets retained by Takeda. These amounts were recorded as a liability at closing in the amount of approximately $1.1 billion. Related deferred tax assets of approximately
$410 million were also recorded. Of the $1.1 billion, Abbott made tax-deductible payments of $36 million, $83 million and $200 million in 2010, 2009 and
2008. In 2009 events occurred resulting in the remaining payments not being required and the remaining liability in the amount of $797 million was derecognized and recorded as income in Other
(income) expense, net.   

          In
2008, Abbott sold its spine business for approximately $360 million in cash, resulting in an after-tax gain of approximately $147 million which is presented
as Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of taxes, in the accompanying statement of income. The operations and financial position of the spine business are not presented as discontinued
operations because the effects would not be significant.   

    Restructurings     

          In 2010, Abbott management approved a restructuring plan primarily related to the acquisition of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business.
This plan streamlines operations, improves efficiencies and reduces costs in certain Solvay sites and functions as well as in certain Abbott and Solvay commercial organizations in various countries.
Action plans have been identified and most are expected to be implemented within the next two years. This plan will result in pretax charges of approximately $810 million to $970 million
over the life of the plan. These charges include employee-related costs of approximately $650 million, accelerated depreciation and asset write-downs of approximately $105 million, and
other related exit costs of up to approximately $215 million, mainly related to discontinuation of certain research and development programs and product transfers. Under this plan, Abbott
recorded charges to Cost of products sold, Research and development and Selling, general and administrative of approximately $99 million, $152 million and $272 million,
respectively. Additional charges of $12 million were subsequently recorded primarily for accelerated depreciation. The following summarizes the activity for this restructuring:     (dollars in millions)   

In
2010 and prior years, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical and vascular manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial
and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, Abbott recorded charges of approximately $56 million, $114 million and $36 million,
respectively, reflecting the impairment of   

  36  

Table of Contents   

manufacturing
facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $56 million in 2010 is classified as Cost of products sold and $114 million and
$36 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, are classified as Selling, general and administrative. An additional $13 million, $47 million and $81 million were subsequently
recorded in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, relating to these restructurings, primarily for accelerated depreciation. The following summarizes the activity for these restructurings:     (dollars in millions)   

In
2008, Abbott management approved a plan to streamline global manufacturing operations, reduce overall costs, and improve efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostic business. In 2008,
Abbott recorded a charge to Cost of products sold of approximately $129 million under the plan. Additional charges of approximately $60 million, $54 million and $16 million
were recorded in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, relating to this restructuring, primarily for accelerated depreciation and product transfer costs. Additional charges will be incurred through 2011
as a result of product re-registration timelines required under manufacturing regulations in a number of countries and product transition timelines. The following summarizes the activity
for this restructuring:    (dollars in millions)   

Interest expense and Interest (income)     

          In 2010, interest expense increased due primarily to increased debt levels. In 2009 and 2008, interest expense decreased primarily as a
result of lower interest rates, partially offset by increased debt levels in 2009 related to the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. Interest income decreased in 2010 due to lower
investment balances, decreased in 2009 due to lower interest rates and increased in 2008 due to higher interest rates.   

    Other (income) expense, net     

          Other (income) expense, net, for 2009 includes the derecognition of a contingent liability of $797 million associated with the
conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture as discussed above, a $287 million gain from the settlement reached between Abbott and Medtronic, Inc. resolving
all outstanding intellectual property litigation between the two parties and income from the recording of certain investments at fair value in connection with business acquisitions. Other (income)   

  37  

Table of Contents   

expense,
net, for 2010, 2009 and 2008 also includes ongoing contractual payments from Takeda associated with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture and a gain in 2008 on the sale of an equity
investment accounted for as an available-for-sale investment. In addition, Abbott recorded a gain of approximately $94 million in connection with the dissolution of the
TAP joint venture in 2008.   

    Taxes on Earnings     

          The income tax rates on earnings from continuing operations were 19.0 percent in 2010, 20.1 percent in 2009 and
19.2 percent in 2008. As a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act which were signed into law in 2010, Abbott recorded a
charge of approximately $60 million in 2010 to reduce deferred tax assets associated with retiree health care liabilities related to the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy. The tax
rate in 2009 was affected by a higher tax rate applied to the derecognition of a contingent liability associated with the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture and
the Medtronic intellectual property litigation settlement.   

          In
October 2010, Puerto Rico enacted legislation that assesses a tax beginning in 2011 on certain products manufactured in Puerto Rico. This excise tax will be recorded in Cost of
products sold although the tax is expected to be creditable for U.S. income tax purposes.   

    Research and Development Programs     

          Abbott currently has numerous pharmaceutical, medical and nutritional products in development. The significant areas of therapeutic
focus include the following:   

Pharmaceutical
Products     

          Immunology  
Projects are ongoing to identify new mechanisms with the potential to treat an array of immune-mediated diseases. Projects include early stage work in
oral DMARD therapies and a number of biologic candidates.   

          Phase III
trials are ongoing for additional indications of    HUMIRA    including ulcerative colitis in Japan, ankylosing
spondylitits in China, pediatric Crohn's disease in the U.S. and the European Union (EU), uvetis in the U.S., EU and Japan, and peripheral and axial spondyloarthritis in the U.S. and EU. Global
regulatory applications for ulcerative colitis were submitted in early 2011.   

Neuroscience/Pain  
Abbott is focused on the development of compounds that target receptors in the brain that help regulate mood, memory and other neurological
functions to address conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, pain, Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis (MS). This includes three compounds directed toward the treatment of
Alzheimer's disease. ABT-126 and ABT-288 are completing Phase II studies in early 2011 and ABT-384 will complete its Phase II study later in 2011.
Daclizumab, a next-generation antibody, entered Phase III clinical trials for relapsing remitting MS in the second quarter of 2010.   

Oncology  
Abbott is focused on the development of targeted treatments that inhibit tumor growth and improve response to common cancer therapies. Abbott has new
molecular entities in development for more than a dozen types of cancer including:   

ABT-869, a multi-targeted kinase inhibitor, for which a Phase III trial for liver cancer was initiated
in 2010 and Phase II studies for other cancer types are ongoing.     
           ABT-263, a Bcl-2 family protein antagonist, currently in Phase II development for chronic
lymphoid leukemia.     
           ABT-888, a PARP-inhibitor, is completing Phase II in early 2011.    
 
  38  

Table of Contents   

Elotuzamab under a collaboration agreement acquired as part of the Facet Biotech acquisition in 2010. Abbott expects to
begin Phase III development of elotuzamab for the treatment of multiple myeloma with its partner in 2011.    

Hepatitis
C   Abbott's antiviral program is focused on developing treatments for hepatitis C (HCV) and includes a partnership with Enanta Pharmaceuticals to discover
protease inhibitors as well as internal programs focused on additional viral targets. In 2010, Abbott initiated Phase II clinical trials to evaluate three of Abbott's HCV antiviral agents,
including the investigational protease inhibitor ABT-450, part of the Enanta collaboration. Polymerase inhibitors ABT-333 and ABT-072 as well as
ABT-267, a NS5A inhibitor, are currently being developed exclusively by Abbott.   

Women's
Health   In 2010, Abbott entered into a collaboration agreement with Neurocrine to develop and commercialize elagolix, an oral gonadotropin-releasing hormone
(GnRH) antagonist, for the treatment of endometriosis-related pain and fibroids. A Phase II study in endometriosis was recently completed.   

          Chronic
Kidney Disease   In 2010, Abbott entered into an agreement with Reata Pharmaceuticals for ex-U.S. rights, excluding certain Asian markets, to
bardoxolone, an investigational treatment for chronic kidney disease (CKD). A Phase IIb study was recently completed and a global Phase III trial is targeted to begin in 2011.   

In
addition, new formulations of Abbott's existing pharmaceutical products, including    Lupron    6-month depot and     AndroGel    1.62%, are currently under FDA review.
Work is also
continuing on numerous early-stage programs, including the biologic acquired from Pangenetics for chronic pain in late 2009, a cMet antibody for cancer in partnership with Pierre Fabre SA, and
other programs across all of Abbott's therapeutic areas of focus.   

  Vascular  
Ongoing projects in the pipeline include:   

Xience Nano   , a version of    Xience
V    for small vessels, currently under regulatory review in the U.S.     
            Xience PRIME   , the next-generation drug-eluting
stent (DES) based on    Xience V    attributes. Ongoing clinical trials for    Xience PRIME    in the U.S. are
evaluating a range of stent sizes, including small vessel and long lengths.     
            ABSORB   , a bioresorbable vascular scaffold (BVS) device for the treatment
of coronary artery disease that is gradually resorbed into the vessel wall. In 2010 Abbott released four-year data from its    ABSORB    clinical
trial, which showed efficacy and safety results consistent with the three-year data. In early 2010, Abbott also initiated the    ABSORB EXTEND   
clinical trial which will enroll up to 1,000 patients with more complex coronary artery disease. In 2011 after receiving CE Mark approval for    ABSORB   ,
Abbott announced its plans to initiate a randomized, controlled clinical trial later in 2011 to further study the device in an expanded population in Europe. A global trial, including the U.S. and
other geographies, is planned for later this year.     
            MitraClip    device for the treatment of mitral
regurgitation   In September 2010, Abbott announced additional data from the EVEREST II (Endovascular Valve Edge-to Edge REpair STudy) trial on the safety and clinical
benefits of the    MitraClip    system. Abbott's    MitraClip    system which is on the market in Europe is
currently under review for approval by the FDA.     
           Coronary and endovascular core product projects, including new coronary and endovascular guide wires, and the     Herculink Elite   
stent for renal indication in the U.S., are at various stages of development and/or undergoing regulatory approvals.    

Medical
Optics   Abbott is expanding its proprietary laser platforms into new vision correction applications, including cataract surgery, and is developing new diagnostic
instruments and treatments to improve visual outcomes. Synchrony, a next-generation intraocular lens (IOL) designed to mimic the eye's   

  39  

Table of Contents   

  natural
ability to change focus and deliver improved vision at all distances for patients following cataract surgery, is currently under FDA review. Abbott is also developing new products for patients
undergoing cataract surgery, including new intraocular lenses that address astigmatism, a new insertion system to facilitate micro-incision surgery and an ophthalmic viscoelastic for the U.S. market.   

Molecular
Diagnostics   Numerous new molecular diagnostic products, including oncology and infectious disease assays as well as improved instrument systems, are
currently under development. An assay to aid in the management of HCV-infected patients undergoing antiviral therapy is currently under U.S. regulatory review. Additional assays to detect
the presence of HIV virus, tuberculosis, and CMV viral load and a test to detect hepatitis B drug resistance in patients are under regulatory review for CE Mark approval.   

          Core
Laboratory Diagnostics   Abbott is researching dozens of novel biomarkers focusing on areas such as diabetes, infectious disease, and neuroscience disorders and
also has several next generation instrument systems for hematology, immunochemistry and blood screening in development.   

          Diabetes
Care   Abbott is developing new products for diabetes patients including the next generation    Freestyle    glucose
monitoring system with new features supporting the insulin-using patient. This new system is currently under regulatory review for CE Mark approval and a filing for FDA approval is expected to be
submitted in 2011.   

          Nutrition  
Abbott is focusing its R D spend on six benefit platforms that span the pediatric, adult and performance nutrition areas: immunity, cognition, lean body
mass, inflammation, metabolism and tolerance. Numerous new products that build on advances in these benefit platforms are currently under development and are expected to be launched in 2011.   

          Given
the diversity of Abbott's business, its intention to remain a broad-based healthcare company and the numerous sources for potential future growth, no individual project is expected
to be material to cash flows or results of operations. Factors considered included research and development expenses projected to be incurred for the project (compound or device) over the next year
relative to Abbott's total research and development expenses as well as qualitative factors, such as marketplace perceptions and impact of a new product on Abbott's overall market position. There were
no delays in Abbott's 2010 research and development activities that are expected to have a material impact on operations.   

          While
the aggregate cost to complete the numerous pharmaceutical and medical device projects currently in development is expected to be material, the total cost to complete will depend
upon Abbott's ability to successfully complete each project, the rate at which each project advances, and the ultimate timing for completion. Given the potential for significant delays and the high
rate of failure inherent in the research and development of new pharmaceutical and medical device products and technologies, it is not possible to accurately estimate the total cost to complete all
projects currently in development. However, Abbott plans to continue to manage our portfolio of projects to achieve research and development spend equal to approximately 9.5 percent to
10 percent of sales each year.   

    Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions     

          On January 1, 2009, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), "Business Combinations," as codified in
FASB ASC No. 805, "Business Combinations." Under ASC No. 805, acquired in-process research and development is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until
approval or discontinuation rather than as expense. In addition, acquisition costs in connection with an acquisition are expensed rather than added to the cost of an acquisition and the fair value of
contingent consideration at the date of an acquisition is added to the cost of the acquisition.   

          On
September 8, 2010, Abbott acquired Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business, a leader in the Indian branded generics market, for $2.2 billion, in cash,
plus additional payments of $400 million annually in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. Abbott recorded a $1.6 billion liability for the present   

  40  

Table of Contents   

value
of the additional payments at the acquisition date. The acquisition was financed with current cash. The preliminary allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in the recording of
$2.7 billion of deductible acquired intangible assets and $1.0 billion of deductible goodwill. Acquired intangible assets consist primarily of trade names, customer relationships and
associated rights and will be amortized over an average of 19 years. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition will be finalized when the valuation is completed.   

In
February 2010, Abbott acquired Solvay's pharmaceuticals business (Solvay Pharmaceuticals) for approximately $6.1 billion, in cash, plus additional payments of up to EUR
100 million per year if certain sales milestones are met in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Contingent consideration of approximately $290 million was recorded based on a preliminary valuation. The
acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals provides Abbott with a large and complementary portfolio of pharmaceutical products and expands Abbott's presence in key global emerging markets. Abbott acquired
control of this business on February 15, 2010 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning
on that date. Net sales for the acquired operations for 2010 were approximately $3.1 billion. Pretax loss of the acquired operations, including acquisition, integration and restructuring
expenses, for 2010 was approximately $395 million. The acquisition was funded with current cash and short-term investments. The preliminary allocation of the fair value of the
acquisition is shown in the table below    (in billions of dollars)   . The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition will be finalized when the
valuation is completed.   

Goodwill, non-deductible  
     
  $  
  2.2  

Acquired intangible assets, non-deductible  

4.1  

Acquired in-process research and development, non-deductible  

0.5  

Acquired net tangible assets  

0.7  

Deferred income taxes recorded at acquisition  

(1.1  
  )  

Total preliminary allocation of fair value  
     
  $  
  6.4  

Acquired
intangible assets consist primarily of product rights for currently marketed products and are amortized over 2 to 14 years (average of 11 years). Acquired
in-process research and development is accounted for as indefinite lived intangible assets until regulatory approval or discontinuation. The net tangible assets acquired consist primarily
of trade accounts receivable of approximately $675 million, inventory of approximately $390 million, property and equipment of approximately $725 million, net of assumed
liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other liabilities.   

The
following unaudited pro forma financial information reflects the consolidated results of operations of Abbott as if the acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals had taken place on
January 1, 2010 and January 1, 2009. The pro forma information includes adjustments for amortization of intangible assets and fair value adjustments to acquisition-date
inventory as well as acquisition, integration and restructuring expenses. The pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative
of the results of operations as they would have been had the transaction been effected on the assumed date. (   in billions of dollars, except per share
amounts   )   

In
March 2010, Abbott acquired STARLIMS Technologies for approximately $100 million, in cash, net of cash held by STARLIMS, providing Abbott with leading products and expertise to
build its position in laboratory informatics. A substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been allocated to goodwill and amortizable intangible assets. The allocation of the fair
value of the acquisition will be finalized when the valuation is completed.   

  41  

Table of Contents    

          In April 2010, Abbott acquired the outstanding shares of Facet Biotech Corporation for approximately $430 million, in cash, net of cash held by Facet. The
acquisition enhances Abbott's early- and mid-stage pharmaceutical pipeline, including a biologic for multiple sclerosis and compounds that complement Abbott's oncology program. A
substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been allocated to acquired in-process research and development that is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset
until regulatory approval or discontinuation.   

          In
February 2009, Abbott acquired the outstanding shares of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (AMO) for approximately $1.4 billion in cash, net of cash held by AMO. Prior to
the acquisition, Abbott held a small investment in AMO. Abbott acquired AMO to take advantage of increasing demand for vision care technologies due to population growth and demographic shifts and
AMO's premier position in its field. Abbott acquired control of this business on February 25, 2009 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial
statements beginning on that date. The acquisition was financed with long-term debt. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition is shown in the table below:     (dollars in billions)   

Goodwill, non-deductible  
     
  $  
  1.7  

Acquired intangible assets, non-deductible  

0.9  

Acquired in-process research and development, non-deductible  

0.2  

Acquired net tangible assets  

0.4  

Acquired debt  

(1.5  
  )  

Deferred income taxes recorded at acquisition  

(0.3  
  )  

Total allocation of fair value  
     
  $  
  1.4  

Acquired
intangible assets consist of established customer relationships, developed technology and trade names and are amortized over 2 to 30 years (average of 15 years).
Acquired in-process research and development is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation. The net tangible assets acquired consist
primarily of trade accounts receivable, inventory, property and equipment and other assets, net of assumed liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other liabilities. In
addition, subsequent to the acquisition, Abbott repaid substantially all of the acquired debt of AMO.   

          In
October 2009, Abbott acquired 100 percent of Visiogen, Inc. for $400 million, in cash, providing Abbott with a next-generation accommodating
intraocular lens (IOL) technology to address presbyopia for cataract patients. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible acquired
in-process research and development of approximately $200 million which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation,
non-deductible definite-lived intangible assets of approximately $24 million and goodwill of approximately $200 million.   

In
October 2009, Abbott acquired Evalve, Inc. for $320 million, in cash, plus an additional payment of $90 million to be made upon completion of certain regulatory
milestones. Abbott acquired Evalve to obtain a presence in the growing area of non-surgical treatment for structural heart disease. Including a previous investment in Evalve, Abbott has
acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Evalve. In connection with the acquisition, the carrying amount of this investment was revalued to fair value resulting in recording
$28 million of income, which is reported as Other (income) expense, net. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible definite-lived intangible
assets of approximately $140 million, non-deductible acquired in-process research and development of approximately $220 million which is accounted for as an
indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, goodwill of approximately $100 million and deferred income taxes of approximately $110 million. Acquired
intangible assets consist of developed technology and will be amortized over 11 years.   

          In
January 2009, Abbott acquired Ibis Biosciences, Inc. (Ibis) for $175 million, in cash, to expand Abbott's position in molecular diagnostics for infectious disease.
Including a $40 million investment in Ibis   

  42  

Table of Contents   

in
2008, Abbott has acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Ibis. A substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been allocated to goodwill and amortizable intangible
assets, and acquired in-process research and development which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation. The investment in Ibis
in 2008 resulted in a charge to acquired in-process research and development. In connection with the acquisition, the carrying amount of this investment was revalued to fair value
resulting in recording $33 million of income, which is reported as Other (income) expense, net.   

Except
for the acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals, had the above acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have
been significantly different from reported amounts.   

          In
2010, Abbott entered into an agreement to acquire licensing rights outside the U.S., excluding certain Asian markets, to a product in development for the treatment of chronic kidney
disease resulting in a charge to acquired in-process research and development of $238 million. In addition, Abbott acquired an equity interest of approximately $62 million.
In 2011, Abbott expects to acquire an additional equity interest and make milestone and other payments related to the license agreement totaling approximately $300 million. In 2010, Abbott also
entered into an agreement to develop and commercialize a product for the treatment of endometriosis resulting in a charge to acquired in-process research and development of
$75 million. Additional payments of approximately $500 million could be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones.   

          In
2009, Abbott acquired the global rights to a novel biologic for the treatment of chronic pain for $170 million, in cash, resulting in a charge to acquired
in-process research and development.   

    Goodwill     

          At December 31, 2010, goodwill recorded as a result of business combinations totaled $15.9 billion. Goodwill is reviewed
for impairment annually or when an event that could result in an impairment occurs. The results of the last impairment test indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit was substantially in
excess of its carrying value except for the Medical Optics unit. While the fair value of the Medical Optics business exceeds its carrying value, extended economic pressure particularly in the LASIK
surgery business and longer regulatory approval timelines for products currently under development could result in a valuation in the future where the fair value of the Medical Optics unit has
declined below its carrying value, thereby triggering the requirement to estimate the implied fair value of the goodwill and measure for impairment.   

    Financial Condition     

    Cash Flow     

          Net cash from operating activities of continuing operations amounted to $8.7 billion, $7.3 billion and
$7.0 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. $2.0 billion of long-term debt to be paid in March and May of 2011 will be funded out of operating cash flow and
borrowings. Abbott funded $525 million in 2010, $862 million in 2009 and $285 million in 2008 to defined pension plans. Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic
pension plan of $200 million annually. Abbott expects annual cash flow from operating activities to continue to exceed Abbott's capital expenditures and cash dividends.   

    Debt and Capital     

          At December 31, 2010, Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard   Poor's Corporation and A1 by
Moody's Investors Service. Abbott has readily available financial resources, including unused lines of credit of $6.7 billion that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements of which a
$3.0 billion facility   

  43  

Table of Contents   

expires
in October 2012 and a $3.7 billion facility expires in 2013. Related compensating balances, which are subject to withdrawal by Abbott at its option, and commitment fees are not
material.   

          In
October 2008, the board of directors authorized the purchase of up to $5 billion of Abbott's common shares from time to time. Under this authorization, 14.8 million
shares were purchased in 2010 at a cost of approximately $800 million, 14.5 million shares were purchased in 2009 at a cost of approximately $800 million and 146,400 shares were
purchased in 2008 at a cost of approximately $8 million. In 2008, Abbott also purchased approximately 19.0 million of its common shares at a cost of approximately $1.1 billion
under a prior authorization.   

          Under
a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in February 2009, Abbott issued $3.0 billion of long-term debt in the second quarter
of 2010 that matures in 2015, 2020 and 2040 with interest rates of 2.7 percent, 4.125 percent and 5.3 percent, respectively. Proceeds from this debt were used to pay down
short-term borrowings. Under the February 2009 registration statement, Abbott issued $3.0 billion of long-term debt in the first quarter of 2009 that matures in 2019 and
2039 with interest rates of 5.125 percent and 6.0 percent, respectively. Proceeds from this debt were used to fund the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. and to repay
debt of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. In addition, Abbott repaid $1 billion of long-term notes that were due in 2009 using short-term borrowings.   

          In
connection with the judgment entered by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Abbott in its litigation with New York University and Centocor, Inc.,
Abbott executed a collaterized escrow agreement in February 2010 with a financial institution to secure the judgment in the event that Abbott's appeal to the federal circuit court is unsuccessful in
overturning the district court's decision. Abbott has deposited approximately $1.87 billion with the escrow agent and considers these assets to be restricted. The assets are invested in U.S.
Treasury bills and money market funds per the terms of the agreement.   

    Working Capital     

          Working capital was $5.1 billion at December 31, 2010, $10.3 billion at December 31, 2009 and
$5.5 billion at December 31, 2008. The decrease in working capital in 2010 was due primarily to cash and investments used to acquire Solvay's pharmaceuticals business and Piramal
Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business. The increase in working capital in 2009 was due primarily to increased levels of cash and investments and the derecognition of a contingent
liability associated with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture; partially offset by increased debt levels.   

    Capital Expenditures     

          Capital expenditures of $1.0 billion in 2010, $1.1 billion in 2009 and $1.3 billion in 2008 were principally for
upgrading and expanding manufacturing, research and development, investments in information technology and administrative support facilities in all segments, and for laboratory instruments placed with
customers.   

  44  

Table of Contents   

    Contractual Obligations     

          The following table summarizes Abbott's estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010:     (dollars in millions)   

(a)    Purchase
commitments are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital expenditure requirements.
      (b)    Unrecognized
tax benefits totaling $2.5 billion are excluded from the table above as Abbott is unable to reasonably estimate the period of cash
settlement with the respective taxing authorities on such items.    

Contingent Obligations     

          Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other
companies which has resulted in Abbott becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other
parties, Abbott is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these
agreements is remote. In addition, Abbott periodically acquires a business or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on
the occurrence of certain events.   

    Legislative Issues     

          In the first quarter 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act
(collectively referred to herein as "health care reform legislation") were signed into law in the U.S. Health care reform legislation included an increase in the basic Medicaid rebate rate from
15.1 percent to 23.1 percent and extended the rebate to drugs provided through Medicaid managed care organizations. These Medicaid rebate changes will continue to have a negative effect
on the gross profit margin of the Pharmaceutical Products segment in future quarters.   

          Beginning
in 2013, health care reform legislation will eliminate the federal income tax deduction for prescription drug expenses of retirees for which Abbott receives reimbursement under
the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy program. As a result, Abbott recorded a charge of approximately $60 million in the first quarter 2010 to reduce deferred tax assets associated
with retiree health care liabilities.   

          In
2011, Abbott will begin recording the annual fee imposed by health care reform legislation on companies that sell branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. The
amount of the annual fee will be based on the ratio of certain of Abbott's sales as compared to the total such sales of all   

  45  

Table of Contents   

covered
entities multiplied by a fixed dollar amount specified in the legislation by year. In 2011, additional rebates will be incurred related to the Medicare Part D coverage gap "donut hole."
Beginning in 2013, Abbott will record the 2.3 percent excise tax imposed by health care reform legislation on the sale of certain medical devices in the U.S.   

          Abbott's
primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulations throughout the world. Abbott expects debate to continue over the availability, method of
delivery, and payment for health care products and services. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be adversely affected by these
factors in the future. A more complete discussion of these factors is contained in Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995   A Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements     

          Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Abbott cautions investors that any
forward-looking statements or projections made by Abbott, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those
projected. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual Report on
Form 10-K.   

  46  

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK            

Financial Instruments and Risk Management            

    Market Price Sensitive Investments     

          Abbott holds available-for-sale equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions. The market value of
these investments was approximately $75 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges
impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in value occurs. A hypothetical 20 percent decrease in the share prices of these investments would decrease their fair value at
December 31, 2010 by approximately $15 million. (A 20 percent decrease is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in share prices.)   

    Non-Publicly Traded Equity Securities     

          Abbott holds equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions that are not traded on public stock exchanges. The carrying value
of these investments was approximately $165 million and $78 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Except for one equity investment recorded at
$62 million, no other individual investment is in excess of $18 million. Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment
losses to income when an other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs.   

    Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments     

          At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Abbott had interest rate hedge contracts totaling $7.3 billion and $5.5 billion,
respectively, to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of debt due in 2011 through 2020. The effect of these hedges is to change the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. Abbott does not
use derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to manage its exposure to changes in interest rates for its investment securities. At December 31, 2010, Abbott had
$2.6 billion of domestic commercial paper outstanding with an average annual interest rate of 0.27% with an average remaining life of 24 days. The fair value of long-term
debt at December 31, 2010 and 2009 amounted to $15.7 billion and $12.3 billion, respectively (average interest rates of 5.2% and 5.3%, respectively) with maturities through 2040.
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of current and long-term investment securities amounted to approximately $2.1 billion. A hypothetical 100-basis
point change in the interest rates would not have a material effect on cash flows, income or market values. (A 100-basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible
near-term change in rates.)   

    Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments     

          Abbott enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated intercompany
loans and trade payables and third-party trade payables and receivables. The contracts are marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are
generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency exposure being managed. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Abbott held $10.8 billion and $7.5 billion, respectively, of
such contracts, which mature in the next twelve months.   

          In
addition, certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated
intercompany purchases by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes
in foreign currency exchange rates and are marked-to-market with the resulting gains or losses reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Gains or losses will
be included in Cost of products sold at the time the   

  47  

Table of Contents   

products
are sold, generally within the next twelve months. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Abbott held $1.3 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of such contracts, which all
mature in the following calendar year.   

          Abbott
has designated foreign denominated short-term debt of approximately $650 million and approximately $575 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign subsidiary. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of this debt due to changes in exchange rates are recorded in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.   

          The
following table reflects the total foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2010 and 2009:    (dollars in
millions)   

48  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA            

Page    

Consolidated Statement of Earnings   
     
   50   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   
     
   51   

Consolidated Balance Sheet   
     
   52   

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment   
     
   54   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
   55   

Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
     
   85   

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
     
   86   

49  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Earnings   (dollars and shares in thousands except per share data)            

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  50  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   (dollars in thousands)            

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  51  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Consolidated Balance Sheet 
(dollars in thousands)     

52  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Balance Sheet   (dollars in thousands)            

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  53  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment   (dollars in thousands except per share data)            

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  54  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     

    Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

NATURE OF BUSINESS   Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products.   

CONCENTRATION
OF RISK AND GUARANTEES   Due to the nature of its operations, Abbott is not subject to significant concentration risks relating to customers, products or
geographic locations, except that three U.S. wholesalers accounted for 23 percent of trade receivables as
of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and 27 percent of trade receivables as of December 31, 2008. Product warranties are not significant.   

          Abbott
has no material exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements; no special purpose entities; nor activities that include non-exchange-traded contracts
accounted for at fair value. Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other companies which has resulted in Abbott
becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other parties, Abbott is unable to develop an
estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. Abbott
periodically acquires a business or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain events.   

          BASIS
OF CONSOLIDATION   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions.
The accounts of foreign subsidiaries are consolidated as of November 30, due to the time needed to consolidate these subsidiaries. In December 2009, a foreign subsidiary acquired certain
technology that was accounted for as acquired in-process research and development. This transaction was recorded in 2009 due to the significance of the amount. No other events occurred
related to these foreign subsidiaries in December 2010, 2009 and 2008 that materially affected the financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

          Effective
January 1, 2009, Abbott adopted SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB
No. 51," as codified in FASB ASC No. 810, "Consolidation" and accordingly, noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries are presented as a component of total equity as of December 31,
2010, 2009 and 2008.   

          USE
OF ESTIMATES   The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and necessarily include
amounts based on estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for sales rebates, income taxes, pension and other
post-employment benefits, valuation of intangible assets, litigation, share-based compensation, derivative financial instruments, and inventory and accounts receivable exposures.   

REVENUE
RECOGNITION   Revenue from product sales is recognized upon passage of title and risk of loss to customers. Provisions for discounts, rebates and sales incentives to
customers, and returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the related sales are recorded. Sales incentives to customers are not material. Historical data is readily available and
reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in gross sales. Revenue from the launch of a new product, from an improved version of an existing product, or for shipments in excess
of a customer's normal requirements are recorded when the conditions noted above are met. In those situations, management records a returns reserve for such revenue, if necessary. Sales of product
rights for marketable products are recorded as   

  55  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

revenue
upon disposition of the rights. Revenue from license of product rights, or for performance of research or selling activities, is recorded over the periods earned.   

          INCOME
TAXES   Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the
financial statements at the enacted statutory rate to be in effect when the taxes are paid. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries which are intended to be remitted
to the parent company. Deferred income taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries as working capital and plant and equipment. Interest and
penalties on income tax obligations are included in taxes on income.   

          EARNINGS
PER SHARE   Effective January 1, 2009, Abbott adopted FSP EITF 03-6-1, "Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based
Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities," as codified in FASB ASC No. 260, "Earnings Per Share," which requires that unvested restricted stock units and awards that contain
non-forfeitable rights to dividends be treated as participating securities and be included in the computation of earnings per share under the two-class method. Under the
two-class method, net earnings are allocated between common shares and participating securities. Net earnings allocated to common shares in 2010 and 2009 were $4.613 billion and
$5.733 billion, respectively. Net earnings allocated to common shares in 2008 were not significantly different than net earnings.   

          PENSION
AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS   Abbott accrues for the actuarially determined cost of pension and post-employment benefits over the service
attribution periods of the employees. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rates and the expected return
on plan assets. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual return are amortized over a five-year period. Actuarial losses and gains are
amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method.   

          FAIR
VALUE MEASUREMENTS   For assets and liabilities that are measured using quoted prices in active markets, total fair value is the published market price per unit
multiplied by the number of units held without consideration of transaction costs. Assets and liabilities that are measured using significant other observable inputs are valued by reference to similar
assets or liabilities, adjusted for contract restrictions and other terms specific to that asset or liability. For these items, a significant portion of fair value is derived by reference to quoted
prices of similar assets or liabilities in active markets. For all remaining assets and liabilities, fair value is derived using a fair value model, such as a discounted cash flow model or
Black-Scholes model. Purchased intangible assets are recorded at fair value. The fair value of significant purchased intangible assets is based on independent appraisals. Abbott uses a discounted cash
flow model to value intangible assets. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, terminal values and market
participants. Intangible assets, and goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least on a quarterly and annual basis, respectively.   

SHARE-BASED
COMPENSATION   The value of stock options and restricted stock awards and units are amortized over their service period, which could be shorter than the vesting
period if an employee is retirement eligible, with a charge to compensation expense.   

          LITIGATION
  Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with FASB ASC No. 450, "Contingencies." Under ASC No. 450, loss contingency provisions are
recorded for probable losses at   

  56  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

management's
best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded.   

CASH,
CASH EQUIVALENTS AND INVESTMENTS   Cash equivalents consist of time deposits and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less. Investments
in marketable equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Investments in equity securities that are not traded on public stock exchanges are recorded at cost. Investments in debt securities are classified as
held-to-maturity, as management has both the intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity, and are reported at cost, net of any unamortized premium or discount.
Income relating to these securities is reported as interest income.   

          Abbott
reviews the carrying value of investments each quarter to determine whether an other than temporary decline in market value exists. Abbott considers factors affecting the
investee, factors affecting the industry the investee operates in and general equity market trends. Abbott considers the length of time an investment's market value has been below carrying value and
the near-term prospects for recovery to carrying value. When Abbott determines that an other than temporary decline has occurred, the investment is written down with a charge to Other
(income) expense, net.   

          TRADE
RECEIVABLE VALUATIONS   Accounts receivable are stated at their net realizable value. The allowance against gross trade receivables reflects the best estimate of
probable losses inherent in the receivables portfolio determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled accounts and other currently available information.   

          INVENTORIES
  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs.   

PROPERTY
AND EQUIPMENT   Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The following table
shows estimated useful lives of property and equipment:   

PRODUCT
LIABILITY   Abbott accrues for product liability claims, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the
liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. The liabilities are adjusted quarterly as additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries for
product liability claims are recorded as assets, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized. Prior to 2009, Abbott carried third-party insurance coverage in amounts
that reflect historical loss experience, which did not include coverage for sizable losses. Beginning in 2009, product liability losses are self-insured.   

          RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS   Internal research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the
contracted work is performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the
milestone results are achieved.   

  57  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information     

The
judgment entered by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Abbott in its litigation with New York University and Centocor, Inc. requires Abbott to
secure the judgment in the event that its appeal to the Federal Circuit court is unsuccessful in overturning the district court's decision. In 2010, Abbott deposited $1.87 billion with an
escrow agent and considers these assets to be restricted.   

          Other
(income) expense, net, for 2009 includes the derecognition of a contingent liability of $797 million associated with the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical
Products Inc. joint venture as discussed in Note 11, a $287 million gain from the settlement reached between Abbott and Medtronic, Inc. resolving all outstanding
intellectual property litigation between the two parties and income from the recording of certain investments at fair value in connection with business acquisitions. Other (income) expense, net, for
2010, 2009 and 2008 also includes ongoing contractual payments from Takeda associated with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture and a gain in 2008 on the sale of an equity investment accounted for
as an available-for-sale investment. In addition, Abbott recorded a gain of approximately $94 million in connection with the dissolution of the TAP joint venture in
2008.   

(a)    Accrued
wholesaler chargeback rebates of    $   216, $217 and $210 at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, are netted in trade receivables because Abbott's customers are invoiced at a higher catalog price but only remit to Abbott their contract price for the products.    
  58  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information (Continued)    

(b)    2010
includes acquisition consideration payable of $400 related to the acquisition of Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business.    

(c)    2010
includes acquisition consideration payable of $1,150 related to the acquisition of Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business.    

59  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information (Continued)    

For
the acquired    Lupron    business in 2008, as discussed in Note 11, Abbott recorded intangible assets, primarily     Lupron    product rights, of approximately
$700 million, goodwill of approximately $350 million and deferred tax liabilities related to the
intangible assets of approximately $260 million. Abbott also recorded a liability of approximately $1.1 billion relating to an agreement to remit cash to Takeda if certain research and
development events are not achieved on the development assets retained by Takeda. Related deferred tax assets of approximately $410 million were also recorded. The sale of Abbott's equity
interest in TAP resulted in the recording of net assets related to the    Lupron    business, primarily cash, receivables, inventory and other assets, net of
accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, offset by a credit to Abbott's investment in TAP in the amount of approximately $280 million.   

    Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures     

Certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated intercompany purchases
by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts, totaling $1.3 billion, $2.0 billion and $129 million at December 31, 2010, 2009
and 2008, respectively, are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign exchange rates and are recorded at fair value. Accumulated gains and losses as
of December 31, 2010 will be included in Cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally through the next twelve months. The amount of hedge ineffectiveness was not
significant in 2010, 2009 and 2008.   

          Abbott
enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage currency exposures for foreign currency denominated third-party trade payables and receivables, and for
intercompany loans and trade accounts payable where the receivable or payable is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. For intercompany loans, the contracts
require Abbott to sell or
buy foreign currencies, primarily European currencies and Japanese yen, in exchange for primarily U.S. dollars and other European currencies. For intercompany and trade payables and receivables, the
currency exposures are primarily the U.S. dollar, European currencies and Japanese yen. At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, Abbott held $10.8 billion, $7.5 billion and
$8.3 billion, respectively, of such foreign currency forward exchange contracts.   

          Abbott
has designated foreign denominated short-term debt as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign subsidiary of approximately $650 million, $575 million
and $585 million as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of this debt due to changes in exchange rates are recorded in Accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.   

          Abbott
is a party to interest rate hedge contracts totaling $7.3 billion, $5.5 billion and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, to
manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt due 2011 through 2020. These contracts are designated as fair value hedges of the variability of the fair value of
fixed-rate debt due to changes in the long-term benchmark interest rates. The effect of the hedge is to change a fixed-rate interest obligation to a variable rate
for that portion of the debt. Abbott records the contracts at fair value and adjusts the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt by an offsetting amount. No hedge ineffectiveness was
recorded in income in 2010, 2009 and 2008 for these hedges.   

          Gross
unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities totaled $40 million and $(1) million, respectively, at December 31,
2010; $42 million and $(3) million, respectively, at December 31, 2009 and $55 million and $(23) million, respectively, at December 31, 2008.   

  60  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)     

The following table summarizes the amounts and location of certain derivative financial instruments as of December 31:   

The following table summarizes the activity for foreign currency forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges, debt designated as a
hedge of net investment in a foreign subsidiary and the amounts and location of income (expense) and gain (loss) reclassified into income and for certain other derivative financial instruments. The
amount of hedge ineffectiveness was not significant in 2010, 2009 and 2008 for these hedges.   

The interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges of the variability of the fair value of fixed-rate debt due to changes in
the long-term benchmark interest rates. The hedged debt is marked to market, offsetting the effect of marking the interest rate swaps to market.   

          The
carrying values and fair values of certain financial instruments as of December 31 are shown in the table below. The carrying values of all other financial instruments
approximate their estimated fair   

  61  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)    

values.
The counterparties to financial instruments consist of select major international financial institutions. Abbott does not expect any losses from nonperformance by these counterparties.   

62  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)    

The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis in the balance sheet:   

The fair value of the debt was determined based on the face value of the debt adjusted for the fair value of the interest rate swaps, which is
based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined based on an independent appraisal adjusted for the time value of money.   

  63  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits     

Retirement plans consist of defined benefit, defined contribution and medical and dental plans. Information for Abbott's major defined benefit plans and post-employment
medical and dental benefit plans is as follows: (   dollars in millions   )   

The projected benefit obligations for non-U.S. defined benefit plans was $3.0 billion, $2.0 billion and
$1.3 billion at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The accumulated benefit obligations for all defined benefit plans was $7.5 billion, $5.8 billion and
$4.7 billion at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For plans where the accumulated benefit obligations exceeded plan assets at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the
aggregate accumulated benefit obligations were $2.0 billion, $1.5 billion and   

  64  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

$4.2 billion,
respectively; the projected benefit obligations were $2.2 billion, $1.8 billion and $4.8 billion, respectively; and the aggregate plan assets were
$1.1 billion, $780 million and $3.3 billion, respectively.   

Other
comprehensive income (loss) for 2010 includes amortization of actuarial losses and prior service cost of $136 million and $4 million, respectively, and net actuarial
losses of $305 million for defined benefit plans and amortization of actuarial losses and prior service credits of $38 million and $22 million, respectively, and net actuarial
gains of $177 million for medical and dental plans. Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2009 includes amortization of actuarial losses and prior service cost of $52 million and
$4 million, respectively, and net actuarial losses of $197 million for defined benefit plans and amortization of actuarial losses and prior service credits of $30 million and
$22 million, respectively, and net actuarial losses of $128 million for medical and dental plans. Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2008 includes amortization of actuarial losses and
prior service cost of $34 million and $4 million, respectively, and net actuarial losses of $1.6 billion for defined benefit plans and amortization of
actuarial losses and prior service credits of $29 million and $21 million, respectively, and net actuarial gains of $19 million for medical and dental plans. The pretax amount of
actuarial losses and prior service cost (credits) included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December 31, 2010 that is expected to be recognized in the net periodic benefit
cost in 2011 is $174 million and $4 million, respectively, for defined benefit pension plans and $43 million and $(41) million, respectively, for medical and dental plans.   

          The
weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans are as follows:   

The
weighted average assumptions used to determine the net cost for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans are as follows:   

65  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

          The
assumed health care cost trend rates for medical and dental plans at December 31 were as follows:   

The
discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The
health care cost trend rates represent Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A
one-percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations as of
December 31, 2010, by $240 million /$(194) million, and the total of the service and interest cost components of net post-employment health care cost for the year then
ended by approximately $30 million /$(23) million.   

  66  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

          The
following table summarizes the bases used to measure defined benefit plans' assets at fair value:   

(a)    A
mix of index funds that track the S P 500 (45 percent in 2010 and 40 percent in 2009) and separate actively managed equity accounts
that are benchmarked to the Russell 1000 (55 percent in 2010 and 60 percent in 2009).
      (b)    A
mix of index funds (75 percent) and separate actively managed equity accounts (25 percent) that track or are benchmarked to the
S P 400 midcap index.
      (c)    Primarily
separate actively managed pooled investment accounts that are benchmarked to the MSCI and MSCI emerging market indices.    
  67  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)     

(d)    Index
funds not actively managed (45 percent in 2010 and 75 percent in 2009) and separate actively managed accounts (55 percent in 2010
and 25 percent in 2009).
      (e)    Index
funds not actively managed (15 percent in 2010 and 75 percent in 2009) and separate actively managed accounts (85 percent in 2010
and 25 percent in 2009).
      (f)    Primarily
United Kingdom, Japan and Irish government-issued bonds.
      (g)    Primarily
mortgage backed securities.
      (h)    Primarily
funds invested by managers that have a global mandate with the flexibility to allocate capital broadly across a wide range of asset classes and
strategies including, but not limited to equities, fixed income, commodities, interest rate futures, currencies and other securities to outperform an agreed upon benchmark with specific return and
volatility targets.
      (i)    Primarily
investments in liquid commodity future contracts.
      (j)    Primarily
cash and cash equivalents.    

          Equities
that are valued using quoted prices are valued at the published market prices. Equities in a common collective trust or a registered investment company that are valued using
significant other observable inputs are valued at the net asset value (NAV) provided by the fund administrator. The NAV is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund minus its
liabilities. Fixed income securities that are valued using significant other observable inputs are valued at prices obtained from independent financial service industry-recognized vendors. Absolute
return funds and commodities are valued at the NAV provided by the fund administrator.   

          The
following table summarizes the change in the value of assets that are measured using significant unobservable inputs:    (dollars in
millions)   

The
investment mix of equity securities, fixed income and other asset allocation strategies is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher return, more volatile equity
securities, and lower return, less volatile fixed income securities. Investment allocations are made across a range of markets, industry sectors, capitalization sizes, and in the case of fixed income
securities, maturities and credit quality. The plans do not directly hold any securities of Abbott. There are no known significant concentrations of risk in the plans' assets. Abbott's medical and
dental plans' assets are invested in a similar mix as the pension plan assets.   

          The
plans' expected return on assets, as shown above, is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying investment
portfolios. In establishing   

  68  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

this
assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, as well as current economic and capital market conditions.   

Abbott
funds its domestic pension plans according to IRS funding limitations. International pension plans are funded according to similar regulations. Abbott funded $525 million
in 2010, $862 million in 2009 and $285 million in 2008 to defined pension plans. Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic pension plan of $200 million annually.   

Total
benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which includes payments funded from company assets as well as paid from the plans, are as follows:
(   dollars in millions   )   

The
Abbott Stock Retirement Plan is the principal defined contribution plan. Abbott's contributions to this plan were $147 million in 2010, $137 million in 2009 and
$129 million in 2008.   

          Abbott
provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation plans, to qualifying domestic employees, and accrues for the related cost over the
service lives of the employees.   

Note 5   Taxes on Earnings     

Taxes on earnings from continuing operations reflect the annual effective rates, including charges for interest and penalties. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax consequences on
future years of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries which are
intended to be remitted to the parent company. Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries. Undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely
in foreign subsidiaries as working capital and plant and equipment aggregated $26.8 billion at December 31, 2010. It is not practicable to determine the amount of deferred income taxes
not provided on these earnings. In the U.S., Abbott's federal income tax returns through 2005 are settled, and the income tax returns for years after 2005 are open. There are numerous other income tax
jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none of which are individually significant. Reserves for interest and penalties are not significant.   

  69  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 5   Taxes on Earnings (Continued)    

Earnings
from continuing operations before taxes, and the related provisions for taxes on earnings from continuing operations, were as follows: (   dollars in
millions   )   

Differences
between the effective income tax rate and the U.S. statutory tax rate were as follows:   

As
of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, total deferred tax assets were $6.1 billion, $4.4 billion and $5.4 billion, respectively, and total deferred tax
liabilities were $3.0 billion, $1.8 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. Abbott has incurred losses in a foreign jurisdiction where realization of the future economic benefit
is so remote that the benefit is not reflected as a deferred tax asset. Valuation allowances for   

  70  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 5   Taxes on Earnings (Continued)    

recorded
deferred tax assets were not significant. The tax effect of the differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows: (   dollars in
millions   )   

The
following table summarizes the gross amounts of unrecognized tax benefits without regard to reduction in tax liabilities or additions to deferred tax assets and liabilities if such
unrecognized tax benefits were settled. (   dollars in millions   )   

The
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate is approximately $2.5 billion. Although it is reasonably possible that a
change in the balance of
unrecognized tax benefits may occur within the next twelve months, at this time it is not possible to estimate the range of change due to the uncertainty of the potential outcomes.   

    Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information     

Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products. Abbott's products are generally sold directly to retailers,
wholesalers, hospitals,   

  71  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information (Continued)    

health
care facilities, laboratories, physicians' offices and government agencies throughout the world. Abbott's reportable segments are as follows:   

            Pharmaceutical Products       Worldwide sales of a broad line of pharmaceuticals. For segment reporting purposes, four pharmaceutical
divisions are aggregated and reported as the Pharmaceutical Products segment.   

           Nutritional Products       Worldwide sales of a broad line of adult and pediatric nutritional products.   

            Diagnostic Products       Worldwide sales of diagnostic systems and tests for blood banks,
hospitals, commercial laboratories and alternate-care testing sites. For segment reporting purposes, three diagnostic divisions are aggregated and reported as the Diagnostic Products
segment.   

           Vascular Products       Worldwide sales of coronary, endovascular and vessel closure products.   

          Abbott's
underlying accounting records are maintained on a legal entity basis for government and public reporting requirements. Segment disclosures are on a performance basis consistent
with internal management reporting. Intersegment transfers of inventory are recorded at standard cost and are not a measure of segment operating earnings. The cost of some corporate functions and the
cost of certain employee benefits are charged to segments at predetermined rates that approximate cost. Remaining costs, if any, are not allocated to segments. For acquisitions prior to 2006,
substantially all intangible assets and related amortization are not allocated to segments. The following segment information has been prepared in accordance with the internal accounting policies of
Abbott, as described above, and are not presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied to the consolidated financial statements.    (dollars in
millions)   

(a)    Net
sales and operating earnings were favorably affected by the relatively weaker U.S. dollar in 2010 and 2008 and for 2009 were unfavorably affected by the
relatively stronger U.S. dollar.
      (b)    Additions
to long-term assets in 2010 for the Pharmaceutical Products segment include goodwill of $3,249 and intangibles of $7,261. Additions to
long-term assets in 2010 and 2009 for the Vascular Products segment include goodwill of $310 and $158, respectively, and intangibles of $129 and $373,    

72  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information (Continued)    

respectively.
Additions to long-term assets in 2008 for the Pharmaceutical Products segment includes acquired intangible assets of $700 and for the Vascular Products segment includes
goodwill of $321.   

(c)    Other,
net, for 2010 includes charges of $881 for integration, restructuring and other costs associated with the acquisitions of Solvay and Piramal and $189
for the impairment of the intangible asset related to sibutramine. Other, net, for 2009, includes the derecognition of a contingent liability of $797 established in connection with the conclusion of
the TAP joint venture and a $287 gain from a patent litigation settlement.    

73  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information (Continued)     

(d)    Sales
by country are based on the country that sold the product.    

    Note 7   Litigation and Environmental Matters     

Abbott has been identified as a potentially responsible party for investigation and cleanup costs at a number of locations in the United States and Puerto Rico under federal and state
remediation laws and is investigating potential contamination at a number of company-owned locations. Abbott has recorded an estimated cleanup cost for each site for which management believes Abbott
has a probable loss exposure. No individual site cleanup exposure is expected to exceed $3 million, and the aggregate cleanup exposure is not expected to exceed $15 million.   

          There
are a number of patent disputes with third parties who claim Abbott's products infringe their patents. In April 2007, New York University (NYU) and Centocor, Inc. filed a
lawsuit in the Eastern District of Texas asserting that    HUMIRA    infringes a patent co-owned by NYU and Centocor and exclusively licensed to
Centocor. In June 2009, a jury found that Abbott had willfully infringed the patent and awarded NYU and Centocor approximately $1.67 billion in past compensatory damages. In October 2009, the
district court overturned the jury's finding that Abbott's infringement was willful, but denied Abbott's request to overturn the jury's verdict on validity, infringement, and damages. In December
2009, the district court issued a final judgment and awarded the plaintiffs an additional $175 million in prejudgment interest. Abbott has appealed the jury's verdict. Abbott is confident in
the merits of its case and believes that it will prevail on appeal. As a result, no reserves have been recorded in this case.   

          Within
the next year, legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by Abbott. For its legal proceedings and environmental exposures Abbott
estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $75 million to $115 million. The recorded reserve balance at December 31, 2010 for these proceedings and exposures
was approximately $95 million. These reserves represent management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by FASB ASC No. 450, "Contingencies."   

  74  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 7   Litigation and Environmental Matters (Continued)    

          While
it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all such proceedings and exposures with certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material
adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations, except for the patent case discussed in the second paragraph of this footnote, the resolution of which could be
material to cash flows or results of operations.   

          In
2009, Abbott and Medtronic, Inc. reached a settlement resolving all outstanding intellectual property litigation between the two parties. Under the terms of the settlement,
Medtronic paid Abbott $400 million. The settlement also includes a mutual agreement not to pursue additional litigation on current and future vascular products, subject to specific conditions
and time limits. In connection with the settlement, Abbott recognized a gain of $287 million which is included in Other (income) expense, net. The remaining amounts are being recognized as
royalty income as earned.   

    Note 8   Incentive Stock Program     

The 2009 Incentive Stock Program authorizes the granting of nonqualified stock options, replacement stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance awards,
foreign benefits and other share-based awards. Stock options, replacement stock options and restricted stock awards and units comprise the majority of benefits that have been granted and are currently
outstanding under this program and a prior program. In 2010, Abbott granted 1,597,276 stock options, 589,970 replacement stock options, 1,850,892 restricted stock awards and 6,099,307 restricted stock
units under this program. The purchase price of shares under option must be at least equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant, and the maximum term of an option is
10 years. Options vest equally over three years except for replacement options, which vest in six months. Options granted before January 1, 2005 included a replacement feature. Except
for options outstanding that have a replacement feature, options granted after December 31, 2004 do not include a replacement feature. When an employee tenders mature shares to Abbott upon
exercise of a stock option, a replacement stock option may be granted equal to the amount of shares tendered. Replacement options are granted at the then current market price for a term that expires
on the date of the underlying option grant. Upon a change in control of Abbott, all outstanding stock options become fully exercisable, and all terms and conditions of all restricted stock awards and
units are deemed satisfied. Restricted stock awards generally vest between 3 and 5 years and for restricted stock awards that vest over 5 years, no more than one-third of the
award vests in any one year upon Abbott reaching a minimum return on equity target. Restricted stock units vest over three years and upon vesting, the recipient receives one share of Abbott stock for
each vested restricted stock unit. The aggregate fair market value of restricted stock awards and units is recognized as expense over the service period. Restricted stock awards and settlement of
vested restricted stock units are issued out of treasury shares. Abbott generally issues new shares for exercises of stock options. Abbott does not have a policy of purchasing its shares relating to
its share-based programs. At December 31, 2010, approximately 200 million shares were reserved for future grants. Subsequent to year-end, the reserve was reduced by
approximately 24 million shares for stock options and restricted stock awards and units granted by the Board of Directors.   

          The
number of restricted stock awards and units outstanding and the weighted-average grant-date fair value at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010 was
8,703,247 and $53.64 and 12,449,413 and $54.02, respectively. The number of restricted stock awards and units, and the weighted-average grant-date fair value, that were granted, vested and
lapsed during 2010 were 7,950,199 and $54.15, 3,781,223 and $53.50   

  75  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 8   Incentive Stock Program (Continued)    

and
422,810 and $53.43, respectively. The fair market value of restricted stock awards and units vested in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $203 million, $81 million and $76 million,
respectively.   

The
aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2010 was $194 million and $193 million, respectively. The total intrinsic value
of options exercised in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $77 million, $129 million and $314 million, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost related to all share-based
compensation plans at December 31, 2010 amounted to approximately $270 million which is expected to be recognized over the next three years.   

Total
non-cash compensation expense charged against income in 2010, 2009 and 2008 for share-based plans totaled approximately $385 million, $365 million and
$350 million, respectively, and the tax benefit recognized was approximately $119 million, $118 million and $117 million, respectively. Compensation cost capitalized as
part of inventory is not significant.   

The
fair value of an option granted in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $9.24, $9.28 and $11.42, respectively. The fair value of an option grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

The
risk-free interest rate is based on the rates available at the time of the grant for zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the
option's expected life. The average life of an option is based on both historical and projected exercise and lapsing data. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on
Abbott's stock and historical volatility of Abbott's stock over the expected life of the option. Dividend yield is based on the option's exercise price and annual dividend rate at the time of grant.   

  76  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 9   Debt and Lines of Credit     

The following is a summary of long-term debt at December 31: (   dollars in millions   )   

Principal
payments required on long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2010, are $2.0 billion in 2011, $1.0 billion in 2012, $301 million in
2013, $500 million in 2014, $750 million in 2015 and $9.8 billion thereafter.   

          At
December 31, 2010, Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard   Poor's Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investors Service. Abbott has readily available
financial resources, including unused lines of credit of $6.7 billion that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements of which a $3.0 billion facility expires in October 2012 and a
$3.7 billion facility expires in 2013. Related compensating balances, which are subject to withdrawal by Abbott at its option, and commitment fees are not material. Abbott's weighted-average
interest rate on short-term borrowings was 0.4% at December 31, 2010, 0.2% at December 31, 2009 and 0.5% at December 31, 2008.   

    Note 10   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions     

On January 1, 2009, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), "Business Combinations," as codified in FASB ASC No. 805, "Business Combinations."
Under ASC No. 805, acquired in-process research and development is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until approval or discontinuation rather than as expense,
acquisition costs in connection with an acquisition are expensed rather than added to the cost of an acquisition and the fair value of contingent consideration at the date of an acquisition is added
to the cost of the acquisition.   

  77  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            

Note 10   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions (Continued)     

On September 8, 2010, Abbott acquired Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business, a leader in the Indian branded generics market, for $2.2 billion, in cash,
plus additional payments of $400 million annually in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. Abbott recorded a $1.6 billion liability for the present value of the additional payments at the
acquisition date. The acquisition was financed with current cash. The preliminary allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in the recording of $2.7 billion of deductible
acquired intangible assets and $1.0 billion of deductible goodwill. Acquired intangible assets consist primarily of trade names, customer relationships and associated rights and will be
amortized over an average of 19 years. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition will be finalized when the valuation is completed.   

          In
February 2010, Abbott acquired Solvay's pharmaceuticals business (Solvay Pharmaceuticals) for approximately $6.1 billion, in cash, plus additional payments of up to EUR
100 million per year if certain sales milestones are met in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Contingent consideration of approximately $290 million was recorded based on a preliminary valuation. The
acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals provides Abbott with a large and complementary portfolio of pharmaceutical products and expands Abbott's presence in key global emerging markets. Abbott acquired
control of this business on February 15, 2010 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. Net sales for the acquired
operations for 2010 were approximately $3.1 billion. Pretax loss of the acquired operations, including acquisition, integration and restructuring expenses, for 2010 was approximately
$395 million. The acquisition was funded with current cash and short-term
investments. The preliminary allocation of the fair value of the acquisition is shown in the table below    (in billions of dollars)   . The allocation of the
fair value of the acquisition will be finalized when the valuation is completed.   

Goodwill, non-deductible  
     
  $  
  2.2  

Acquired intangible assets, non-deductible  

4.1  

Acquired in-process research and development, non-deductible  

0.5  

Acquired net tangible assets  

0.7  

Deferred income taxes recorded at acquisition  

(1.1  
  )  

Total preliminary allocation of fair value  
     
  $  
  6.4  

Acquired
intangible assets consist primarily of product rights for currently marketed products and are amortized over 2 to 14 years (average of 11 years). Acquired
in-process research and development is accounted for as indefinite lived intangible assets until regulatory approval or discontinuation. The net tangible assets acquired consist primarily
of trade accounts receivable of approximately $675 million, inventory of approximately $390 million, property and equipment of approximately $725 million, net of assumed
liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other liabilities.   

The
following unaudited pro forma financial information reflects the consolidated results of operations of Abbott as if the acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals had taken place on
January 1, 2010 and January 1, 2009. The pro forma information includes adjustments for amortization of intangible assets and fair value adjustments to acquisition-date
inventory as well as acquisition, integration and restructuring expenses. The pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of the results of   

  78  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 10   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions (Continued)    

operations
as they would have been had the transaction been effected on the assumed date. (   in billions of dollars, except per share amounts   )   

In
March 2010, Abbott acquired STARLIMS Technologies for approximately $100 million, in cash, net of cash held by STARLIMS, providing Abbott with leading products and expertise to
build its position in laboratory informatics. A substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been allocated to goodwill and amortizable intangible assets. The allocation of the fair
value of the acquisition will be finalized when the valuation is completed.   

In
April 2010, Abbott acquired the outstanding shares of Facet Biotech Corporation for approximately $430 million, in cash, net of cash held by Facet. The acquisition enhances
Abbott's early- and mid-stage pharmaceutical pipeline, including a biologic for multiple sclerosis and compounds that complement Abbott's oncology program. A substantial portion of the
fair value of the acquisition has been allocated to acquired in-process research and development that is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or
discontinuation.   

          In
February 2009, Abbott acquired the outstanding shares of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (AMO) for approximately $1.4 billion in cash, net of cash held by AMO. Prior to
the acquisition, Abbott held a small investment in AMO. Abbott acquired AMO to take advantage of increasing demand for vision care technologies due to population growth and demographic shifts and
AMO's premier position in its field. Abbott acquired control of this business on February 25, 2009 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial
statements beginning on that date. The acquisition was financed with long-term debt. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition is shown in the table below:     (dollars in billions)   

Goodwill, non-deductible  
     
  $  
  1.7  

Acquired intangible assets, non-deductible  

0.9  

Acquired in-process research and development, non-deductible  

0.2  

Acquired net tangible assets  

0.4  

Acquired debt  

(1.5  
  )  

Deferred income taxes recorded at acquisition  

(0.3  
  )  

Total allocation of fair value  
     
  $  
  1.4  

Acquired
intangible assets consist of established customer relationships, developed technology and trade names and are amortized over 2 to 30 years (average of 15 years).
Acquired in-process research and development is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation. The net tangible assets acquired consist
primarily of trade accounts receivable, inventory, property and equipment and other assets, net of assumed liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other liabilities. In
addition, subsequent to the acquisition, Abbott repaid substantially all of the acquired debt of AMO.   

  79  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 10   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions (Continued)    

          In
October 2009, Abbott acquired 100 percent of Visiogen, Inc. for $400 million, in cash, providing Abbott with a next-generation accommodating
intraocular lens (IOL) technology to address presbyopia for cataract patients. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in
non-deductible acquired in-process research and development of approximately $200 million which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory
approval or discontinuation, non-deductible definite-lived intangible assets of approximately $24 million and goodwill of approximately $200 million.   

          In
October 2009, Abbott acquired Evalve, Inc. for $320 million, in cash, plus an additional payment of $90 million to be made upon completion of certain regulatory
milestones. Abbott acquired Evalve to obtain a presence in the growing area of non-surgical treatment for structural heart disease. Including a previous investment in Evalve, Abbott has
acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Evalve. In connection with the acquisition, the carrying amount of this investment was revalued to fair value resulting in recording
$28 million of income, which is reported as Other (income) expense, net. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible definite-lived intangible
assets of approximately $140 million, non-deductible acquired in-process research and development of approximately $220 million which is accounted for as an
indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, goodwill of approximately $100 million and deferred income taxes of approximately $110 million. Acquired
intangible assets consist of developed technology and will be amortized over 11 years.   

          In
January 2009, Abbott acquired Ibis Biosciences, Inc. (Ibis) for $175 million, in cash, to expand Abbott's position in molecular diagnostics for infectious disease.
Including a $40 million investment in Ibis in 2008, Abbott has acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Ibis. A substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been
allocated to goodwill and amortizable intangible assets, and acquired in-process research and development which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory
approval or discontinuation. The investment in Ibis in 2008 resulted in a charge to acquired in-process research and development. In connection with the acquisition, the carrying amount of
this investment was revalued to fair value resulting in recording $33 million of income, which is reported as Other (income) expense, net.   

          Except
for the acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals, had the above acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have
been significantly different from reported amounts.   

          In
2010, Abbott entered into an agreement to acquire licensing rights outside the U.S., excluding certain Asian markets, to a product in development for the treatment of chronic kidney
disease resulting in a charge to acquired in-process research and development of $238 million. In addition, Abbott acquired an equity interest of approximately $62 million.
An additional equity interest and additional milestone payments could be required upon the achievement of certain development and regulatory milestones. In 2010, Abbott also entered into an agreement
to develop and commercialize a product for the treatment of endometriosis resulting in a charge to acquired in-process research and development of $75 million. Additional payments
of approximately $500 million could be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones.   

          In
2009, Abbott acquired the global rights to a novel biologic for the treatment of chronic pain for $170 million, in cash, resulting in a charge to acquired
in-process research and development.   

  80  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 11   Conclusion of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Joint Venture and Sale of Abbott's Spine Business     

On April 30, 2008, Abbott and Takeda concluded their TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (TAP) joint venture, evenly splitting the value and assets of the joint venture.
Abbott exchanged its 50 percent equity interest in TAP for the assets, liabilities and employees related to TAP's    Lupron    business. Subsequent to
the conclusion of the joint venture, TAP was merged into two Takeda entities. The exchange of Abbott's investment in TAP for TAP's    Lupron    business
resulted in a gain at closing of approximately $94 million. The Internal Revenue Service has issued a private letter ruling that the transaction qualifies as tax-free for U.S.
income tax purposes.   

          Beginning
on May 1, 2008, Abbott began recording U.S.    Lupron    net sales and costs in its operating results and no longer records
income from the TAP joint venture. TAP's sales of    Lupron    were $182 million for the four months ended April 30, 2008. Abbott also receives
payments based on specified development, approval and commercial events being achieved with respect to products retained by Takeda and payments from Takeda based on sales of products retained by
Takeda, which are recorded by Abbott as Other (income) expense, net when the specified event is achieved or as the applicable sales are made.   

The
exchange transaction was accounted for as a sale of Abbott's equity interest in TAP and as an acquisition of TAP's    Lupron    business.
The sale of Abbott's equity interest in TAP resulted in the recording of net assets related to the    Lupron    business, primarily cash, receivables,
inventory and other assets, net of accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, offset by a credit to Abbott's investment in TAP in the amount of approximately $280 million.   

          For
the acquired    Lupron    business, Abbott recorded intangible assets, primarily    Lupron   
product rights, of approximately $700 million, goodwill of approximately $350 million and deferred tax liabilities related primarily to the intangible assets of approximately
$260 million. The intangible assets are being amortized over 15 years. Abbott agreed to remit cash to Takeda if certain research and development events were not achieved on the
development assets retained by Takeda. These amounts were recorded as a liability at closing in the amount of approximately $1.1 billion. Related deferred tax assets of approximately
$410 million were also recorded. Of the $1.1 billion, Abbott made tax-deductible payments of $36 million, $83 million and $200 million in 2010, 2009 and
2008. In 2009 events occurred resulting in the remaining payments not being required and the remaining liability in the amount of $797 million was derecognized and recorded as income in Other
(income) expense, net.   

          In
2008, Abbott sold its spine business for approximately $360 million in cash, resulting in an after-tax gain of approximately $147 million which is presented
as Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of taxes, in the accompanying statement of income. The operations and financial position of the spine business are not presented as discontinued
operations because the effects would not be significant.   

    Note 12   Goodwill and Intangible Assets     

Abbott recorded goodwill of approximately $3.4 billion in 2010 related to the acquisitions of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business, Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions
business, Facet Biotech and STARLIMS Technologies. Goodwill related to the Solvay, Piramal and Facet acquisitions was allocated to the Pharmaceutical Products segment. In addition, in 2010, Abbott
paid $250 million to Boston Scientific as a result of the approval to market the    Xience V    drug-eluting stent in Japan, resulting in
an increase in goodwill in the Vascular Products segment. Abbott recorded goodwill of approximately $2.2 billion in 2009 related to the acquisitions of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc.,
Ibis Biosciences, Inc., Visiogen, Inc. and Evalve, Inc. Goodwill of approximately $120 million related to the Ibis acquisition was allocated to the   

  81  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 12   Goodwill and Intangible Assets (Continued)    

Diagnostic
Products segment and goodwill of approximately $160 million related to the Evalve acquisition was allocated to the Vascular Products segment. In connection with the dissolution of
the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (TAP) joint venture in 2008, Abbott recorded approximately $350 million of goodwill related to the Pharmaceutical Products segment. In 2008, Abbott
paid $250 million to Boston Scientific as a result of the FDA's approval to market the    Xience V    drug-eluting stent in the U.S.,
resulting in an increase in goodwill in the Vascular Products segment. Foreign currency translation and other adjustments (decreased) increased goodwill in 2010, 2009 and 2008 by
$(879) million, $997 million and $(677) million, respectively. The amount of goodwill related to reportable segments at December 31, 2010 was $9.4 billion for the
Pharmaceutical Products segment, $208 million for the Nutritional Products segment, $383 million for the Diagnostic Products segment, and $2.6 billion for the Vascular Products
segment. Goodwill was reduced by approximately $64 million in connection with the sale of Abbott's spine business in 2008. There were no other significant reductions of goodwill relating to
impairments or disposal of all or a portion of a business.   

          The
gross amount of amortizable intangible assets, primarily product rights and technology was $17.3 billion, $10.8 billion and $9.4 billion as of
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and accumulated amortization was $6.5 billion, $5.1 billion and $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. Indefinite-lived intangible assets, which relate to in-process research and development acquired in a business combination, were approximately $1.4 billion and
$610 million at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The estimated annual amortization expense for intangible assets recorded at December 31, 2010 is approximately $1.6 billion in 2011,
$1.3 billion in 2012, $1.1 billion in 2013, $895 million in 2014 and $790 million in 2015. Amortizable intangible assets are amortized over 2 to 30 years (average
12 years).   

    Note 13   Restructuring Plans     

In 2010, Abbott management approved a restructuring plan primarily related to the acquisition of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business. This plan streamlines operations, improves
efficiencies and reduces costs in certain Solvay sites and functions as well as in certain Abbott and Solvay commercial organizations in various countries. Action plans have been identified and most
are expected to be implemented within the next two years. This plan will result in pretax charges of approximately $810 million to $970 million over the life of the plan. These charges
include employee-related costs of approximately $650 million, accelerated depreciation and asset write-downs of approximately $105 million, and other related exit costs of up to
approximately $215 million, mainly related to discontinuation of certain research and development programs and product transfers. Under this plan, Abbott recorded charges to Cost of products
sold, Research and development and Selling, general and administrative of approximately $99 million, $152 million and $272 million, respectively. Additional charges of
$12 million were subsequently recorded primarily for accelerated depreciation. The following summarizes the activity for this restructuring:    (dollars in
millions)   

In
2010 and prior years, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical and vascular manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial
and research   

  82  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 13   Restructuring Plans (Continued)    

and
development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, Abbott recorded charges of approximately $56 million, $114 million and $36 million, respectively,
reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $56 million in 2010 is classified as Cost of products sold
and $114 million and $36 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, are classified as Selling, general and administrative. An additional $13 million, $47 million and
$81 million were subsequently recorded in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, relating to these restructurings, primarily for accelerated depreciation. The following summarizes the activity for
these restructurings:    (dollars in millions)   

In
2008, Abbott management approved a plan to streamline global manufacturing operations, reduce overall costs, and improve efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostic business. In 2008,
Abbott recorded a charge to Cost of products sold of approximately $129 million under the plan. Additional charges of approximately $60 million, $54 million and $16 million
were recorded in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, relating to this restructuring, primarily for accelerated depreciation and product transfer costs. Additional charges will be incurred through 2011
as a result of product re-registration timelines required under manufacturing regulations in a number of countries and product transition timelines. The following summarizes the activity
for this restructuring:    (dollars in millions)   

Note 14   Subsequent Event     

In January 2011, Abbott management approved a restructuring plan to streamline manufacturing and commercial operations, improve efficiencies and reduce costs in the pharmaceutical
business. This plan
will result in pre-tax charges of approximately $295 million over the next several years based on the timing of events, including product transfers. Approximately
$165 million of the charges are forecast to occur in 2011, with about $140 million projected in the first quarter of 2011.   

  83  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    Note 15   Quarterly Results (Unaudited)     

    (dollars in millions except per share data)      

(a)    The
sum of the quarters' basic earnings per share for 2010 and 2009 and diluted earnings per share for 2009 do not add to the full year earnings per share
amounts due to rounding.    

84  

Table of Contents    

Management Report on Internal Control   Over Financial Reporting            

          The management of Abbott Laboratories is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting. Abbott's internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company's management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published
financial statements.   

          All
internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.   

          Abbott's
management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. In making this assessment, it used the criteria
set forth in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
As allowed by SEC guidance, management excluded from its assessment the 2010 acquisitions of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business and Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business which
accounted for approximately 20 percent of consolidated total assets and 9 percent of consolidated net sales as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010. Based on our
assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2010, the company's internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.   

Abbott's
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on their assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting.
This report appears on page 87.   

  Miles
D. White 
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

  Thomas
C. Freyman 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

  Greg
W. Linder 
VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER   

February 18,
2011   

  85  

Table of Contents    

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' investment, and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   

          We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

          In
our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, and
the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.   

As
discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the provisions of a new accounting standard relating to business combinations in 2009.   

          We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 18, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 18, 2011   

  86  

Table of Contents   

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

We
have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in     Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As described
in Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management excluded from its assessment the 2010 acquisitions of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business and Piramal Healthcare Limited's
Healthcare Solutions business which accounted for approximately 20 percent of consolidated total assets and 9 percent of consolidated net sales as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2010. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at Solvay's pharmaceuticals business or Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions
business. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.   

          We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

          A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or
persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

          Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to
future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

          In
our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in     Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   

We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2010 and our report dated February 18, 2011 expresses an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding
the Company's adoption of a new accounting standard in 2009.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

Chicago,
Illinois 
February 18, 2011   

  87  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE            

          None.    

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES            

    Disclosure Controls and Procedures     

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.       The Chief Executive Officer, Miles D. White, and the Chief Financial Officer, Thomas
C. Freyman,
evaluated the effectiveness of Abbott Laboratories' disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and concluded that Abbott Laboratories' disclosure controls
and procedures were effective to ensure that information Abbott is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by
Abbott in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Abbott's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer,
as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   

    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

            Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting.       Management's report on Abbott's internal control over
financial reporting is
included on page 85 hereof. The report of Abbott's independent registered public accounting firm related to their assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting is
included on page 87 hereof.   

            Changes in internal control over financial reporting.       During the quarter ended December 31, 2010, there were no changes in
Abbott's internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's
internal control over financial reporting.    

ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION            

          None.   

  88  

Table of Contents    

PART III            

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE            

          Incorporated herein by reference are "Information Concerning Nominees for Directors," "Committees of the Board of Directors,"
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance," and "Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting" to be included in the 2011 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement. The 2011 Proxy
Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2011. Also incorporated herein by reference is the text found under the caption, "Executive Officers of the Registrant" on pages 21 through
24 hereof.   

          Abbott
has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer and controller. That code is part of
Abbott's code of business conduct which is available free of charge through Abbott's investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com). Abbott intends to include on its website (www.abbott.com) any
amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of its code of ethics that applies to Abbott's principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer and controller that
relates to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K.    

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION            

          The material to be included in the 2011 Proxy Statement under the headings "Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and
"Compensation Committee Report" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2011 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2011.    

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS            

(a)     Equity Compensation Plan Information.      

1.    (i)
   Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program   . Benefits under the 1996 Program include stock options
intended to qualify for special tax treatment under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code ("incentive stock options"), stock options that do not qualify for that special tax treatment
("non-qualified stock options"), restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance awards, and foreign qualified benefits. The shares that remain available
for issuance under the 1996 Program may be issued in connection with any one of these benefits and may be either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares (except that restricted stock awards
may be satisfied only from treasury shares).    

If
there is a lapse, expiration, termination, forfeiture or cancellation of any benefit granted under the 1996 Program without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder, the shares subject
to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards   

89  

Table of Contents   

of
any type authorized under the 1996 Program. If shares are issued under any benefit under the 1996 Program and thereafter are reacquired by Abbott pursuant to rights reserved upon their issuance, or
pursuant to the payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by delivery of other common shares of Abbott, the shares subject to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may not
again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized under the 1996 Program.   

  In
April 2009, the 1996 Program was replaced by the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program. No further awards will be granted under the 1996 Program.   

  (ii)
   Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program.    Benefits under the 2009 Program include stock options that do not qualify for special tax
treatment under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code ("non-qualified stock options"), restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards, other share-based awards
(including stock appreciation rights, dividend equivalents and recognition awards), awards to non-employee directors, and foreign benefits. The shares that remain available for issuance
under the 2009 Program may be issued in connection with any one of these benefits and may be either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares (except that restricted stock awards may be
satisfied only from treasury shares).   

  If
there is a lapse, expiration, termination, forfeiture or cancellation of any benefit granted under the 2009 Program without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder, the shares subject
to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized under the 2009 Program. If shares are issued under any benefit
under the 2009 Program and thereafter are reacquired by Abbott pursuant to rights reserved upon their issuance, or pursuant to the payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by
delivery of other common shares of Abbott, the shares subject to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may not again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized
under the 2009 Program.   

  (iii)
   Abbott Laboratories 2009 Employee Stock Purchase Plan for Non-U.S. Employees.    Eligible employees of participating non-U.S.
affiliates of Abbott may participate in this plan. An eligible employee may authorize payroll deductions at the rate of 1% to 10% of eligible compensation (in multiples of one percent) subject to a
limit of US $12,500 during any purchase cycle.   

  Purchase
cycles are generally six months long and usually begin on August 1 and February 1. On the last day of each purchase cycle, Abbott uses participant contributions to acquire
Abbott common shares. The shares acquired come from treasury shares. The purchase price is 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the shares on that date or on the first day of that purchase
cycle.   

  (iv)
   Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. Plans.    In 2009, in connection with its acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., Abbott assumed
options outstanding under the Amended and Restated Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2002 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended; AMO's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated; the
Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan; the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Director Option and Stock Deferral Plan, as amended and restated; the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Stock
Plan, as amended; the VISX, Incorporated 2000 Stock Plan; and the VISX, Incorporated 2001 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan. As of December 31, 2010, 2,195,856 options remained outstanding under
the plans. These options have a weighted average purchase price of $67.68. No further awards will be granted under the plans.   

For
additional information concerning the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program, and the Abbott Laboratories 2009
Employee Stock Purchase Plan for Non-U.S. Employees, see the discussion in Note 8 entitled "Incentive Stock Program" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under
Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."   

  90  

Table of Contents   

(b)     Information Concerning Security Ownership   . Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the
heading "Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in the 2011 Proxy Statement. The 2011 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2011.     

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE            

          The material to be included in the 2011 Proxy Statement under the headings "The Board of Directors," "Committees of the Board of
Directors," "Corporate Governance Materials," and "Approval Process for Related Person Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2011 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 15, 2011.    

ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES            

          The material to be included in the 2011 Proxy Statement under the headings "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" and "Policy on
Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Auditor" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2011 Proxy Statement will be filed
on or about March 15, 2011.   

  91  

Table of Contents    

PART IV            

ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES            

(a)     Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K.   

(1)     Financial Statements:    See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," on page 49
hereof, for a list of financial statements.
      (2)     Financial Statement Schedules:    The required financial statement schedules are found on the pages indicated
below. These schedules should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of Abbott Laboratories:    

Abbott Laboratories Financial Statement Schedules

Page No.    

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (Schedule II)  

95  

Schedules I, III, IV, and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not required  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

96  

Individual Financial Statements of businesses acquired by the registrant have been omitted pursuant to Rule 3.05 of Regulation S-X  

(3)     Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K:    The information called for by
this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index on pages 97 through 105 of this Form 10-K.

(b)     Exhibits filed (see Exhibit Index on pages 97 through 105).   
      (c)     Financial Statement Schedule filed (page 95).      
  92  

Table of Contents    

SIGNATURES            

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Abbott Laboratories has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

ABBOTT LABORATORIES  

By  
      
    /s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 18, 2011  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Abbott Laboratories on February 18, 2011 in
the capacities indicated below.   

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White 
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Abbott Laboratories (principal executive officer)  
     
   /s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman 
Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer)  

/s/ GREG W. LINDER 

Greg W. Linder 
Vice President and Controller 
(principal accounting officer)  

/s/ ROBERT J. ALPERN, M.D. 

Robert J. Alpern, M.D. 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ ROXANNE S. AUSTIN 

Roxanne S. Austin 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ W. JAMES FARRELL 

W. James Farrell 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ H. LAURANCE FULLER 

H. Laurance Fuller 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ EDWARD M. LIDDY 

Edward M. Liddy 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ PHEBE N. NOVAKOVIC 

Phebe N. Novakovic 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

93  

Table of Contents   

/s/ WILLIAM A. OSBORN 

William A. Osborn 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
     
   /s/ DAVID A. L. OWEN 

David A. L. Owen 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ ROY S. ROBERTS 

Roy S. Roberts 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ SAMUEL C. SCOTT III 

Samuel C. Scott III 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ WILLIAM D. SMITHBURG 

William D. Smithburg 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ GLENN F. TILTON 

Glenn F. Tilton 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

94  

Table of Contents    

ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES   SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS   FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010, 2009, AND 2008   (in thousands of dollars)            

(1)    Includes
increases in the allowance due to business acquisitions of $64,862.    

95  

Table of Contents    

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

  We
have audited the consolidated financial statements of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of and for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, and the Company's
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, and have issued our reports thereon dated February 18, 2011, which report relating to the consolidated financial
statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's adoption of a new
accounting standard in 2009; such reports are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company listed in
Item 15. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such
consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 18, 2011   

  96  

Table of Contents    

EXHIBIT INDEX   ABBOTT LABORATORIES   ANNUAL REPORT   FORM 10-K   2010            

Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934."   

10-K 
Exhibit 
Table 
Item No.    

2.1  
     
       *Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement among Solvay SA and the other Sellers (as defined in the Agreement) and Abbott Laboratories and the
other Buyers (as defined in the Agreement), dated as of September 26, 2009, filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.  

2.2  
     
       *Amendment No. 1, dated February 15, 2010, to Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement among Solvay SA and the other
Sellers (as defined in the Agreement) and Abbott Laboratories and the other Buyers (as defined in the Agreement), dated as of September 26, 2009, filed as Exhibit 2.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated
February 16, 2010.  

2.3  
     
       *Business Transfer Agreement, dated May 21, 2010, by and among Abbott Healthcare Private Limited, Abbott Laboratories,
Piramal and certain shareholders of Piramal, filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 21, 2010.  

2.4  
     
       *Amendment No. 1 to Business Transfer Agreement, dated September 8, 2010, by and among Abbott Healthcare Private
Limited, Abbott Laboratories, Piramal Healthcare Limited ("Piramal") and certain shareholders of Piramal, filed as Exhibit 2.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 8, 2010.  

3.1  
     
       *Articles of Incorporation, Abbott Laboratories, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998.  

3.2  
     
       *By-Laws of Abbott Laboratories, as amended and restated effective as of January 7, 2011, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to
the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 13, 2011.  

4.1  
     
       *Indenture dated as of February 9, 2001, between Abbott Laboratories and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
(as successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.) (including form of Security), filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated
February 12, 2001.  

4.2  
     
       *Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 27, 2006, between Abbott Laboratories and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (as successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated February 28, 2006.  

4.3  
     
       *Form of 3.5% Note, filed as Exhibit 4.29 to the 2003 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

4.4  
     
       *Actions of Authorized Officers with Respect to Abbott's 3.5% Notes, filed as Exhibit 4.30 to the 2003 Abbott
Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

97  

Table of Contents   

98  

Table of Contents   

99  

Table of Contents   

10-K 
Exhibit 
Table 
Item No.    

10.13  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed
as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.14  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option granted with a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the
Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.15  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.16  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Replacement Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.17  
     
       *Form of Employee Restricted Stock Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as
Exhibit 10.6 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.18  
     
       *Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as
Exhibit 10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.19  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as
Exhibit 10.8 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.20  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed
as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2004.**  

10.21  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option granted with an Incentive Stock Option under the
Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program on or after February 18, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 2005.**  

10.22  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a new Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive
Stock Program granted on or after February 18, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 2005.**  

10.23  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option granted with a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the
Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program on or after February 18, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 2005.**  

10.24  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program granted on or after February 18, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 2005.**  

100  

Table of Contents   

101  

Table of Contents   

10-K 
Exhibit 
Table 
Item No.    

10.36  
     
       *Form of Performance Restricted Stock Agreement for an award of performance restricted stock under Section 10 of the Abbott Laboratories
1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February 20, 2009, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on 8-K dated February 20, 2009.**  

10.37  
     
       *Form of Performance Restricted Stock Agreement for an award of performance restricted stock under the Abbott Laboratories
1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February 20, 2009, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on 8-K dated February 20, 2009.**  

10.38  
     
       *Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for an award of non-qualified stock options under the Abbott Laboratories 1996
Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February 20, 2009, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on 8-K dated February 20, 2009.**  

10.39  
     
       *Form of Non-Qualified Replacement Stock Option Agreement for an award of non-qualified replacement stock options under the
Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February 20, 2009, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on 8-K dated February 20, 2009.**  

10.40  
     
       *Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for an award of restricted stock under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program granted on or after February 20, 2009 (ratable vesting), filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on 8-K dated February 20, 2009.**  

10.41  
     
       *Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for an award of restricted stock under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program granted on or after February 20, 2009 (cliff vesting), filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on 8-K dated February 20, 2009.**  

10.42  
     
       *Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for an award of restricted stock units under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive
Stock Program granted on or after February 20, 2009, filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on 8-K dated February 20, 2009.**  

10.43  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Non-Qualified Replacement Stock Option Agreement for an award of non-qualified replacement
stock options under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February 20, 2009, filed as Exhibit 10.8 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on 8-K dated February 20, 2009.**  

10.44  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories
Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 24, 2009.**  

10.45  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current
Report on Form 8-K dated April 24, 2009.**  

10.46  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Non-Qualified Replacement Stock Option Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Abbott
Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 24, 2009.**  

10.47  
     
       *Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (ratably vested), filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Current
Report on Form 8-K dated April 24, 2009.**  

102  

Table of Contents   

103  

Table of Contents   

104  

Table of Contents   

The 2011 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under separate cover on or about March 15, 2011.   

*    Incorporated
herein by reference. Commission file number 1-2189.
      **    Denotes
management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.    

Abbott
will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a shareholder upon written request to the Secretary, Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois
60064-6400.   

  105  

<EX-10.57>
 2
 a2201962zex-10_57.htm
 EX-10.57

Exhibit 10.57   
     
   Abbott Laboratories   
     
   Description of Base Salary of Named Executive Officers   
     
  Set forth below are the base salaries, effective December 31, 2010 and March 1, 2011, of the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, Laura J. Schumacher, and James V. Mazzo, all of whom were named executive officers in 2010.  
     
  Miles D. White  
  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  

Thomas C. Freyman  
  Executive Vice President, Finance and  
  Chief Financial Officer  

Laura J. Schumacher  
  Executive Vice President,  
  General Counsel and Secretary  

James V. Mazzo  
  Senior Vice President,  
  Abbott Medical Optics  

</EX-10.57>

<EX-12>
 3
 a2201962zex-12.htm
 EX-12

Exhibit 12   
     
   Abbott Laboratories   
   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   
  (Unaudited)  
  (dollars in millions)  

NOTE: For the purpose of calculating this ratio, (i) earnings from continuing operations have been calculated by adjusting earnings from continuing operations for taxes on earnings from continuing operations; interest expense; amortization of capitalized interest, net of capitalized interest; noncontrolling interest; and the portion of rentals representative of the interest factor, (ii) Abbott considers one-third of rental expense to be the amount representing return on capital, and (iii) fixed charges comprise total interest expense, including capitalized interest and such portion of rentals.  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 4
 a2201962zex-21.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21   
     
  SUBSIDIARIES OF ABBOTT LABORATORIES  
     
  The following is a list of subsidiaries of Abbott Laboratories.  Abbott Laboratories is not a subsidiary of any other corporation.  Where ownership of a subsidiary is less than 100% by Abbott Laboratories or an Abbott Laboratories  subsidiary, such has been noted by designating the percentage of ownership.  

Domestic Subsidiaries        

Incorporation            

Abbott   Administration Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Biologicals, LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Bioresearch Center, Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Biotech Ventures Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Biotherapeutics Corp.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Cardiovascular Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Cardiovascular Systems Inc.       

California           

Abbott   Delaware Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Diabetes Care Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Diabetes Care Sales Corporation       

Delaware           

Abbott   Endocrine Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Endocrinology Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Equity Investments LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Exchange Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Health Products, Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Home Infusion Services of New York, Inc.       

New   York           

Abbott   International LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Investments Holdings Corporation       

Delaware           

Abbott   Laboratories Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Laboratories International Co.       

Illinois           

Abbott   Laboratories Pacific Ltd.       

Illinois           

Abbott   Laboratories Purchasing Company, LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Laboratories Residential Development Fund, Inc.       

Illinois           

Abbott   Laboratories Services Corp.       

Illinois           

Abbott   Management Corporation       

Delaware              

Abbott   Medical Optics Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Mexico LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Molecular Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Nutrition Manufacturing Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Personnel Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Pharmaceutical Corporation       

Delaware           

Abbott   Point of Care Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Products Operations, LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Products US Holdings, Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Products, Inc.       

Georgia           

Abbott   Resources Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Resources International Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Respiratory LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Universal Ltd.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Vascular Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Vascular Solutions Inc.       

Indiana           

Abbott   Ventures Inc.       

Delaware           

Aeropharm   Technology, LLC       

Delaware           

AMO   Development, LLC       

Delaware           

AMO   Holdings, Inc.       

Delaware           

AMO   Manufacturing USA, LLC       

Delaware           

AMO   Nominee Holdings, LLC       

Delaware           

AMO   Sales and Service, Inc.       

Delaware           

AMO   Spain Holdings, LLC       

Delaware           

AMO   U.K. Holdings, LLC       

Delaware           

AMO   US Holdings, Inc.       

Delaware           

AMO   USA Sales Holdings, Inc.       

Delaware           

AMO   USA, LLC       

Delaware           

AMO   WaveFront Sciences, LLC       

Delaware           

Aspen   Acquisition I, Inc.       

Delaware           

AVI   Corp.       

Delaware              

Bioabsorbable   Vascular Solutions, Inc.       

Delaware           

BioDisplay   Technologies, Inc.       

Illinois           

CG   Nutritionals, Inc.       

Delaware           

CMM   Transportation, Inc.       

Delaware           

CynoGen   Inc.       

Delaware           

Evalve   International, Inc.       

Delaware           

Evalve, Inc.       

Delaware           

Fournier   Pharma Corp.       

Delaware           

Fremont   Holding L.L.C.       

Delaware           

Fremont   Management, Inc.       

Delaware           

Gene-Trak, Inc.       

Delaware           

Gene-Trak   Systems Industrial Diagnostics Corp.       

Delaware           

Ibis   Biosciences, Inc.       

Delaware           

IEP   Pharmaceutical Devices, LLC       

Delaware           

IMTC   Technologies, Inc.       

Delaware           

Innogenetics   Inc.       

Georgia           

Integrated   Surgical Solutions, LLC       

Delaware           

Integrated   Vascular Systems, Inc.       

Delaware           

i-STAT   Europe Inc.       

Delaware           

IVD   Instruments, LLC       

Delaware           

Knoll   Pharmaceutical Company       

New   Jersey           

Kos   Pharmaceuticals, Inc.       

Delaware           

Mednova   (USA) Inc.       

Georgia           

Murex   Diagnostics, Inc.       

Delaware           

Natural   Supplement Association, Incorporated       

Colorado           

North   Shore Properties, Inc.       

Delaware           

Organics   L.L.C.       

Delaware           

PDD   II, LLC       

Delaware           

PDD,   LLC       

Delaware           

Pegasus   One, LLC       

Delaware           

Quest   Vision Technology, Inc.       

California              

Rowell   Laboratories, Inc.       

Minnesota           

S     G Nutritionals, Inc.       

Delaware           

Solartek   Products, Inc.       

Delaware           

Starlims   Corporation       

Florida           

Swan-Meyers, Incorporated       

Indiana           

Tobal   Products Incorporated       

Illinois           

Unimed   Pharmaceuticals, LLC       

Delaware           

Vectoris   Corporation       

California           

Visiogen, Inc.       

Delaware           

Woodside   Biomedical, Inc.       

Delaware           

X   Technologies Inc.       

Delaware           

ZonePerfect   Nutrition Company       

Delaware           

International Subsidiaries        

Incorporation            

Solvay   Pharma Algerie EURL       

Algeria           

Abbott   Laboratories Argentina Sociedad Anonima       

Argentina           

Murex   Argentina S.A.       

Argentina           

Abbott   Australasia Pty Ltd       

Australia           

Abbott   Products Pty Ltd       

Australia           

AMO   Australia Pty Ltd       

Australia           

EAS   Australia Pty Ltd       

Australia           

Abbott   Products GmbH       

Austria           

Abbott   Gesellschaft m.b.H.       

Austria           

Abbott   Bahamas Overseas Businesses Corporation       

Bahamas           

Abbott   Hospitals Limited       

Bahamas           

Abbott   Laboratories (Bangladesh) Limited       

Bangladesh           

Murex   Diagnostics International, Inc.       

Barbados           

Abbott   Belgian Investments SPRL       

Belgium           

AMO   Belgium       

Belgium           

Abbott   Belgian Pension Fund A.S.B.L.       

Belgium           

Abbott   S.A.       

Belgium              

Abbott   Products SA       

Belgium           

Abbott   Vascular International BVBA       

Belgium           

Abbott   Biotechnology Ltd.       

Bermuda           

Abbott   Diagnostics International, Ltd.       

Bermuda           

Abbott   Ireland       

Bermuda           

Abbott   Pharmaceuticals PR Ltd.       

Bermuda           

Abbott   Strategic Opportunities Limited       

Bermuda           

Abbott   Drustvo sa ogranicenom odgovornoscu za trgovinu i usluge       

Bosnia   and Herzegovina           

Abbott   Laborat rios do Brasil Ltda.       

Brazil           

Abbott   Produtos para Sa de Ltda       

Brazil           

Abbott   Products EOOD       

Bulgaria           

Abbott   (Cambodia) LLC       

Cambodia           

Abbott   Laboratories, Limited       

Canada           

Abbott   Point of Care Canada Limited       

Canada           

Experimental     Applied Sciences Canada Inc.       

Canada           

International   Murex Technologies Corporation       

Canada           

AMO   Canada Company       

Canada           

Abbott   Products Canada Inc.       

Canada           

Abbott   Products Inc.       

Canada           

Starlims   Canada, Inc.       

Canada           

Unimed   Canada Inc.       

Canada           

Fournier   Pharma Inc.       

Canada           

AMO   Global Holdings       

Cayman   Islands, B.W.I.           

AMO   Ireland       

Cayman   Islands, B.W.I.           

AMO   Puerto Rico Manufacturing, Inc.       

Cayman   Islands, B.W.I.           

VISX       

Cayman   Islands, B.W.I.           

Abbott   Laboratories de Chile Limitada       

Chile           

Abbott   Laboratories de Colombia, S.A.       

Colombia           

Abbott   Healthcare Costa Rica, S.A.       

Costa   Rica           

Abbott   Vascular Limitada       

Costa   Rica           

Abbott   Laboratories limited liability company for trade and services       

Croatia              

Abbott   Products d.o.o. for Services       

Croatia           

Abbott   Overseas Subsidiary Holding(Cyprus) Limited       

Cyprus           

Abbott   Laboratories, s.r.o.       

Czech   Republic           

Abbott   Products s.r.o       

Czech   Republic           

Abbott   Products ApS       

Denmark           

Abbott   Laboratories A/S       

Denmark           

AMO   Denmark ApS       

Denmark           

Abbott   Laboratorios del Ecuador Cia. Ltda.       

Ecuador           

Abbott   Limited Egypt LLC       

Egypt           

Abbott   Healthcare LLC       

Egypt           

Abbott   Products Limited       

Egypt           

Abbott   Products Egypt LLC       

Egypt           

Abbott,   S.A. de C.V.       

El   Salvador           

Abbott   Products OY       

Finland           

Abbott   OY       

Finland           

AMO   France S.A.S.       

France           

Abbott   France Instruments S.A.S.       

France           

Laboratories   Fournier SA       

France           

Fournier   Industrie et Sante S.A.S.       

France           

Abbott   Products S.A.S       

France           

Vivasol   S.N.C. (Paris)       

France           

Abbott   Healthcare SAS       

France           

Abbott   France S.A.S.       

France           

Varilab   Sarl - France       

France           

Abbott   Arzneimittel GmbH       

Germany           

Abbott   Products GmbH       

Germany           

Fournier   Pharma GmbH       

Germany           

Abbott   Biotechnology Deutschland GmbH       

Germany           

Abbott   Deutschland GmbH       

Germany           

Abbott   Diagnostics G.m.b.H.       

Germany           

Abbott   GmbH   Co. KG       

Germany              

Abbott   Holding GmbH       

Germany           

Abbott   Management GmbH       

Germany           

Abbott   Vascular Instruments Deutschland GmbH       

Germany           

Abbott   Vascular Deutschland GmbH       

Germany           

Visiogen   Europe GmbH       

Germany           

AMO   Germany GmbH       

Germany           

Starlims   Germany GmbH       

Germany           

Abbott   Holding Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar           

Abbott   Holding (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar           

Abbott   Asia Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar           

Abbott   Asia (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar           

Abbott   Asia (Gibraltar) Limited Luxembourg S.C.S.       

Gibraltar           

Abbott   Laboratories (Hellas) S.A.       

Greece           

Abbott   Products M.E.P.E.       

Greece           

Abbott   Grenada Limited       

Grenada           

Abbott   Laboratorios, S.A.       

Guatemala           

AMO   Asia Limited       

Hong   Kong           

Abbott   Laboratories Limited       

Hong   Kong           

Starlims   Asia Pacific Limited       

Hong   Kong           

Abbott   Laboratories (Hungary) Health Products and Medical Equipment Trading and   Servicing Limited Liability Company       

Hungary           

Abbott   Products KFT       

Hungary           

Abbott   Healthcare Private Limited       

India           

Abbott   India Limited       

India           

Abbott   Medical Optics India Private Limited       

India           

Solvay   Pharma India Ltd.       

India           

Abbott   TrueCare Pharma Private Limited       

India           

PT.   Abbott Indonesia       

Indonesia           

PT.   Abbott Products Indonesia       

Indonesia           

AMO   International Holdings       

Ireland              

AMO   Ireland Export Limited       

Ireland           

AMO   Ireland Finance       

Ireland           

AMO   Regional Holdings       

Ireland           

Abbott   Healthcare Products Limited       

Ireland           

Fournier   Laboratories Ireland Limited       

Ireland           

Abbott   Ireland Holdings Limited       

Ireland           

Abbott   Laboratories Vascular Enterprises Limited       

Ireland           

Abbott   Laboratories, Ireland, Limited       

Ireland           

Abbott   Mature Products International Limited       

Ireland           

Abbott   Mature Products Management Limited       

Ireland           

Abbott   Nutrition Limited       

Ireland           

Abbott   Products       

Ireland           

Abbott   Vascular Devices Ireland Limited       

Ireland           

Allergan   Trading International Limited       

Ireland           

BiodivYsio   Limited       

Ireland           

Carotid   Interventional Systems Limited       

Ireland           

Salviac   Limited       

Ireland           

Mednova   Limited       

Ireland           

L.I.M.S.   Holdings 2000 Ltd.       

Israel           

L.I.M.S.   Management Systems (1993) Ltd.       

Israel           

Starlims   Technologies Ltd.       

Israel           

Abbott   AVI s.r.l.       

Italy           

Abbott   S.r.l.       

Italy           

Abbott   Vascular Knoll-Ravizza S.p.A       

Italy           

Autonomous   Employee Welfare Fund for Abbott S.p.A. Dirigenti       

Italy           

AMO   Italy S.R.L       

Italy           

Abbott   Products S.p.A       

Italy           

Abbott   West Indies Limited       

Jamaica           

AMO   Japan K.K.       

Japan           

Abbott   Japan Co., Ltd.       

Japan           

Abbott   Vascular Japan Co., Ltd       

Japan              

Abbott   Seiyaku K.K.       

Japan           

Abbott   Korea Limited       

Korea,   South           

Abbott   Laboratories Baltics       

Latvia           

Abbott   Middle East S.A.R.L.       

Lebanon           

UAB    Abbott Laboratories        

Lithuania           

Abbott International Luxembourg S.ar.l.       

Luxembourg           

Abbott   Investments Luxembourg S.a r.l.       

Luxembourg           

Abbott   Overseas Luxembourg S.a r.l.       

Luxembourg           

Abbott   Asia (Gibraltar) Limited Luxembourg S.C.S.       

Luxembourg           

Abbott   Holding Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited Luxembourg S.C.S.       

Luxembourg           

Abbott   Asia Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited Luxembourg S.C.S       

Luxembourg           

Abbott   Products Luxembourg S.ar.l.       

Luxembourg           

Abbott   Healthcare Luxembourg S.ar.l       

Luxembourg           

Abbott Philippines Luxembourg S.ar.l       

Luxembourg           

Abbott   South Africa Luxembourg S.a.r.l.       

Luxembourg           

Abbott   Russia Luxembourg S.a.r.l       

Luxembourg           

Abbott   Laboratories (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.       

Malaysia           

AMO   Malta Limited       

Malta           

Abbott Laboratories de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.       

Mexico           

Italmex   S.A.       

Mexico           

Abbott   Laboratories (Mozambique), Limitada       

Mozambique           

Abbott   B.V.       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Biotechnology Netherlands B.V.       

Netherlands           

AMO   Groningen B.V.       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Knoll Investments B.V.       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Laboratories B.V.       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Logistics B.V.       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Nederland C.V.       

Netherlands           

Abbott   PR Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Vascular Devices Holland B.V.       

Netherlands              

AMO   Netherlands BV       

Netherlands           

AMO   Groningen B.V.       

Netherlands           

EAS   International B.V.       

Netherlands           

IMTC   Finance B.V.       

Netherlands           

IMTC   Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Healthcare B.V.       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Healthcare Products B.V. (formerly Solvay Pharmaceuticals B.V.)       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Products B.V.       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Biologicals BV       

Netherlands           

Octrooibureau   Zoan B.V.       

Netherlands           

Duphar   International Research BV       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Research B.V. (formerly PanGenetics110 B.V.)       

Netherlands           

Medisense   Europe B.V.       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Laboratories NZ Limited       

New   Zealand           

EAS   Asia/Pacific Limited       

New   Zealand           

Abbott   Norge AS       

Norway           

Abbott   Medical Optics Norway AS       

Norway           

Abbott   Products AS       

Norway           

Abbott   Laboratories (Pakistan) Limited       

Pakistan           

Abbott   Laboratories, C.A.       

Panama           

Abbott   Overseas, S.A.       

Panama           

Abbott   (Guangzhou) Nutritionals Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China           

AMO   (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China           

AMO   (Shanghai) Medical Devices Trading Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China           

Abbott   Laboratories Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China           

Guidant   International Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China           

Shanghai   Abbott Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China           

Abbott   Laboratorios S.A.       

Peru           

Abbott   Laboratories (Philippines)       

Philippines           

Abbott   Products (Philippines), Inc.       

Philippines              

Union-Madison   Realty Company, Inc.       

Philippines           

Abbott   Laboratories Poland Sp. z o.o.       

Poland           

Abbott   Products Sp. z o.o.       

Poland           

Fournier Polska Sp. z o.o..       

Poland           

Abbott   Laboratorios, Limitada       

Portugal           

Abbottfarma - Promocao de Produtos   Farmaceuticos, Lda       

Portugal           

MediSense - Promocao de Produtos Farmaceuticos,   Lda       

Portugal           

Premier - Promocao de Produtos Farmaceuticos,   Lda       

Portugal           

Abbott   Products Lda       

Portugal           

Voxfarma   Productos       

Portugal           

Abbott   Laboratories (Puerto Rico) Incorporated       

Puerto   Rico           

Knoll   LLC       

Puerto   Rico           

Abbott   Products Romania S.R.L.       

Romania           

Limited   liability company Abbott Laboratories       

Russia           

Abbott   Products Limited Liability Company       

Russia           

AMO   Singapore Pte. Limited       

Singapore           

Abbott   Laboratories (Singapore) Private Limited       

Singapore           

Abbott   Manufacturing Singapore Private Limited       

Singapore           

Abbott   Products Singapore Pte Ltd.       

Singapore           

Starlims   (SEA) PTE Ltd.       

Singapore           

Abbott   Laboratories Slovakia s.r.o.       

Slovakia           

Abbott   Products s.r.o.       

Slovakia           

Abbott   Laboratories druzba za farmacijo in diagnostiko d.o.o.       

Slovenia           

Abbott   Laboratories South Africa (Proprietary) Limited       

South   Africa           

Abbott   Products (Proprietary) Limited       

South   Africa           

Experimental     Applied Sciences Africa (Proprietary) Limited       

South   Africa           

Murex   Biotech South Africa (Proprietary) Limited       

South   Africa           

Murex   Diagnostics South Africa (Proprietary) Limited       

South   Africa           

Knoll   Pharmaceuticals South Africa (Proprietary) Limited       

South   Africa           

AMO   Manufacturing Spain, S.L.       

Spain           

Abbott   Cientifica, S.A.       

Spain              

Abbott   Medical Optics Spain, S.L.       

Spain           

Bioresearch   Espana, S.A.       

Spain           

Liade   Sociedad Anonima (S.A.)       

Spain           

Murex   Diagnosticos S.A.       

Spain           

Abbott   Products SA       

Spain           

Duphar   Nezel S.L.       

Spain           

Abbott   Healthcare SA       

Spain           

Abbott   Laboratories, S.A.       

Spain           

Fundacion   Abbott       

Spain           

Abbott   Scandinavia AB       

Sweden           

Abbott   Medical Optics Norden AB       

Sweden           

Advanced   Medical Optics Uppsala AB       

Sweden           

Abbott   Products AB       

Sweden           

Abbott   AG       

Switzerland           

Abbott   Finance Company S.A.       

Switzerland           

Abbott   Laboratories S.A.       

Switzerland           

Abbott   Service AG       

Switzerland           

AMO   Switzerland GmbH       

Switzerland           

Knoll-Bioresearch   AG       

Switzerland           

Abbott   Products AG       

Switzerland           

Abbott   Products Operations AG       

Switzerland           

Abbott   Fund Tanzania Limited       

Tanzania           

Abbott   Laboratories Tanzania Limited       

Tanzania           

Abbott   Laboratories Limited       

Thailand           

Abbott   Products (Thailand) Limited       

Thailand           

Abbott   Products Tunisie       

Tunisia           

Abbott   Laboratuarlari Ithalat Ihracat Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi       

Turkey           

Abbott   Products Ilac VE Ecza Ticaret Limited Sirteki       

Turkey           

AMO   United Kingdom Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   (UK) Finance Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   (UK) Holdings Limited       

United   Kingdom              

Abbott   Asia Holdings Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   Asia Investments Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   Capital India Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   Diabetes Care Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   Equity Holdings Unlimited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   Iberian Investments Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   Iberian Investments (2) Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   Investments Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   Laboratories Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   Laboratories Trustee Company Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   Vascular Devices (2) Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   Vascular Devices Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Experimental   and Applied Sciences UK Limited       

United   Kingdom           

IMTC   Holdings (U.K.) Limited       

United   Kingdom           

i-STAT   Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Knoll   UK Investments Unlimited       

United   Kingdom           

Murex   Biotech (UK) Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Murex   Biotech Limited       

United   Kingdom           

TheraSense   UK Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Vysis   (UK) Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   Healthcare Products Ltd.       

United   Kingdom           

British   Colloids Ltd.       

United   Kingdom           

Mansbridge   Pharmaceuticals Ltd.       

United   Kingdom           

Fournier   Pharmaceuticals Ltd.       

United   Kingdom           

Starlims   Europe Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Abbott   Laboratories Uruguay S.A.       

Uruguay           

LIRDOW   S.A       

Uruguay           

Abbott   Laboratories C.A.       

Venezuela           

Abbott   Trading Company, Inc.       

Virgin   Islands              

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 a2201962zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-158782 on Form S-8
for the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program; Registration Statement Nos. 333-09071, 333-43381, 333-69547, 333-93253,
333-52768, 333-74228, 333-102178, 333-109250, 333-124850, and 333-158782 on Form S-8 for the Abbott
Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program; Registration Statement Nos. 333-74220, 333-102179, 333-124851, 333-153200, and 333-169886
on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan; Registration Statement Nos. 33-26685, 33-50452, 33-51585,
33-56897, 33-65127, 333-19511, 333-43383, 333-69579, 333-93257, 333-74224, 333-102180,
333-109253, 333-124849, 333-141116, 333-153198, and 333-169888 on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement
Program and Trusts; Registration Statement No. 333-158124 on Form S-8 for the Amended and Restated Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2002 Incentive
Compensation Plan, as amended, the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, the Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan, the VISX, Incorporated 2001
Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, the VISX, Incorporated 2000 Stock Plan, the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Director Option and Stock Deferral Plan, as amended and restated, and the VISX, Incorporated 1995
Stock Plan, as amended; and
Registration Statement Nos. 333-109132, 333-132104, 333-157290, and 333-158128 on Form S-3 of our reports dated
February 18, 2011, relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (which report relating to the financial statements expresses an
unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's adoption of a new accounting standard in 2009) and the effectiveness of Abbott Laboratories' internal control over
financial reporting appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories for the year ended December 31, 2010.   

/s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 18, 2011   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 a2201962zex-31_1.htm
 EX-31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

Certification of Chief Executive Officer   Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))            

  I,
Miles D. White, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Abbott as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for Abbott and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to Abbott, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of Abbott's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Abbott's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Abbott's
auditors and the audit committee of Abbott's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect Abbott's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Abbott's internal control over financial
reporting.    

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White, 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 18, 2011  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   
 
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 a2201962zex-31_2.htm
 EX-31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

Certification of Chief Financial Officer   Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))            

  I,
Thomas C. Freyman, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Abbott as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for Abbott and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to Abbott, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of Abbott's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Abbott's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Abbott's
auditors and the audit committee of Abbott's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect Abbott's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Abbott's internal control over financial
reporting.    

/s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman, 
Executive Vice President, Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 18, 2011  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   
 
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 a2201962zex-32_1.htm
 EX-32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

Certification Pursuant To   18 U.S.C. Section 1350   As Adopted Pursuant To   Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002            

          In connection with the Annual Report of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Miles D. White, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to
18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White, 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 18, 2011  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Abbott Laboratories and will be retained by Abbott Laboratories and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   
 
  Certification Pursuant To 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 As Adopted Pursuant To Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 a2201962zex-32_2.htm
 EX-32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

Certification Pursuant To   18 U.S.C. Section 1350   As Adopted Pursuant To   Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002            

          In connection with the Annual Report of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Thomas C. Freyman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman, 
Executive Vice President, Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 18, 2011  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Abbott Laboratories and will be retained by Abbott Laboratories and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   
 
  Certification Pursuant To 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 As Adopted Pursuant To Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 abt-20101231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 abt-20101231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 abt-20101231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 abt-20101231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 abt-20101231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 abt-20101231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

