<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130215_10-K_edgar_data_1800_0001047469-13-001180_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>15086479</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>706583</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2861237</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3539914</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4910409</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2575777</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>61</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-13-001180.hdr.sgml : 20130219
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130215151507
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-13-001180
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		20
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130215
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130215

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ABBOTT LABORATORIES
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000001800
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				360698440
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02189
		FILM NUMBER:		13619132

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 ABBOTT PARK ROAD
		STREET 2:		D-322 AP6D
		CITY:			ABBOTT PARK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60064-3500
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8479376100

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001047469-13-001180.txt : 20130219

10-K
 1
 a2212523z10-k.htm
 10-K

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549   

FORM 10-K     

Abbott Laboratories     

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     

Title of Each Class    
     
   Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered    

Common Shares, Without Par Value 

New York Stock Exchange 
Chicago Stock Exchange  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to submit and post such files).     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.         

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.     

Large Accelerated Filer       
     
   Accelerated Filer       
     
   Non-accelerated Filer       
     
   Smaller Reporting Company       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).     

   Yes                No         

The aggregate market value of the 1,520,159,513 shares of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price
as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of Abbott Laboratories' most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2012), was $98,004,683,803. Abbott has no
non-voting common equity.     

   Number of common shares outstanding as of January 31, 2013: 1,570,677,029     

    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

   Portions of the 2013 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 15, 2013.     

PART I            

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS            

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS            

Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900. Abbott's* principal business is the discovery, development,
manufacture, and sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products.   

FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS            

          Incorporated herein by reference is Note 6 entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information related to HUMIRA  included in "Financial Review."   

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS            

          Through December 31, 2012, Abbott had five reportable revenue segments: Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products, Established
Pharmaceutical Products, Diagnostic Products, Nutritional Products, and Vascular Products.   

          On
January 1, 2013, Abbott completed the separation of its research-based pharmaceuticals business through the distribution of the issued and outstanding common stock of
AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) to Abbott's shareholders. AbbVie was formed to hold Abbott's research-based pharmaceuticals business and, as a result of the distribution, is now an independent public
company trading under the symbol "ABBV" on the New York Stock Exchange.   

*    As
used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "Abbott" refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or
Abbott Laboratories and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.    
  1  

Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products     

          These products include a broad line of adult and pediatric pharmaceuticals manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide (except as noted)
and are generally sold directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from distribution centers and public
warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or
co-promoted with other companies. As a result of the separation of Abbott's research-based pharmaceuticals business, beginning in 2013, Abbott will no longer have a Proprietary
Pharmaceutical Products segment.   

          The
principal products included in the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment are:  

HUMIRA , for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis,
juvenile idiopathic arthritis, and Crohn's disease as well as ulcerative colitis in the United States and European Union and axial spondyloarthritis and pediatric Crohn's disease in the
European Union;   
           Kaletra , also marketed as Aluvia , and Norvir  for the treatment of HIV infection;    
           Lupron , also marketed as Lucrin , used for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer,
treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids;   
           Synagis , for the prevention of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV);    
           AndroGel , for the treatment of adult males who have low testosterone (marketed and sold in the United
States);   
           the anesthesia product sevoflurane (sold under the trademarks Ultane  and Sevorane     
           Zemplar , for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with Stage 3, 4,
or 5 chronic kidney disease;   
           Synthroid , for the treatment of hypothyroidism (marketed and sold in the United States);    
           Creon , for the treatment of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency associated with several underlying conditions,
including cystic fibrosis and chronic pancreatitis (marketed and sold in the United States); and   
           TriCor , Trilipix , Simcor , and Niaspan , for the treatment of
dyslipidemia (marketed and sold in the United States).    

The
Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its pharmaceutical products by physicians.
Managed care providers, market access organizations (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) and national and regional governments and agencies (for example, the
United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers.   

Competition
in the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. The search for technological innovations in
pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition in this segment. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product
obsolescence in the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures
on pharmaceutical products that do not have patent protection.   

  2  

Established Pharmaceutical Products     

          These products include a broad line of branded generic pharmaceuticals manufactured worldwide and marketed and sold outside the United
States, and are generally sold directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution
centers and public warehouses, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies.   

          The
principal products included in the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment are:  

Creon , for the treatment of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency associated with several underlying conditions,
including cystic fibrosis and chronic pancreatitis (marketed and sold outside the United States);   
           the anti-infective clarithromycin (sold under the trademarks Biaxin , Klacid , and
Klaricid    
           Influvac , an influenza vaccine available during flu season;    
           Serc , for the treatment of M ni re's disease and vestibular vertigo;    
           Brufen , for the treatment of pain, fever and inflammation;    
           Synthroid , for the treatment of hypothyroidism (marketed and sold outside the United States);    
           Duspatal  and Dicetel , for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome or biliary spasm;    
           Duphaston , for the treatment of many different gynecological disorders;    
           Adomet , Heptral , Transmetil , Samyr , and Donamet , for the
treatment of intrahepatic cholestasis (associated with liver disease) or depressive symptoms;   
           Duphalac , for regulation of the physiological rhythm of the colon;    
           Lipanthyl  and TriCor , for the treatment of dyslipidemia (marketed and sold outside the United
States); and   
           Teveten  and Teveten  Plus, for the treatment of essential hypertension, and
Physiotens , for the treatment of hypertension.    

The
Established Pharmaceutical Products segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of Abbott's brand of products by physicians
both in the primary care and secondary (hospital) care environment. Government agencies are also important customers.   

Competition
in the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. Changes to government tenders and reimbursement schemes
are significant factors with respect to pricing. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed and introduction of additional forms of already marketed established products
by generic or branded competitors have increased competitive pressures.   

    Diagnostic Products     

          These products include a broad line of diagnostic systems and tests manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide to blood banks,
hospitals, commercial laboratories, clinics, physicians' offices, government agencies, alternate-care testing sites, and plasma protein therapeutic companies. The segment's products are
generally marketed and sold directly from Abbott-owned distribution centers, public warehouses and third-party distributors. Outside the United
States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.   

  3  

The
principal products included in the Diagnostic Products segment are:  

immunoassay and clinical chemistry systems, including ARCHITECT  and ABBOTT PRISM     
           assays used for screening and/or diagnosis for drugs of abuse, cancer, therapeutic drug monitoring, fertility,
physiological diseases, and infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV;   
           the m2000 , an instrument that automates the extraction, purification, and preparation of DNA and RNA from
patient samples, and detects and measures infectious agents including HIV, HBV, HCV, HPV, and CT/NG;   
           the Vysis  product line of genomic-based tests, including the PathVysion  HER-2 DNA
probe kit; the UroVysion  bladder cancer recurrence kit; and the Vysis ALK Break Apart FISH Probe Kit, the only FDA-approved companion diagnostic to Pfizer's approved
non-small-cell lung cancer therapy XALKORI    
           informatics and automation solutions for use in the laboratory;   
           a full line of hematology systems and reagents known as the Cell-Dyn  series; and    
           the i-STAT  point-of-care diagnostic systems and tests for blood analysis.    

In
addition, under a distribution agreement with Celera Group, the Diagnostic Products segment exclusively distributes certain Celera molecular diagnostic products, including the
ViroSeq  HIV genotyping system and products used for the detection of mutations in the CFTR gene, which causes cystic fibrosis.   

          The
Diagnostic Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument warranty provisions, product
performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid
product obsolescence or regulatory changes. Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors
introduce new products.   

    Nutritional Products     

          These products include a broad line of pediatric and adult nutritional products manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide. These
products are generally marketed and sold directly to customers and to institutions, wholesalers, retailers, health care facilities, government agencies, and third-party distributors from Abbott-owned
distribution centers or third-party distributors.   

          The
principal products included in the Nutritional Products segment are:  

various forms of prepared infant formula and follow-on formula, including
Similac Advance , Similac  Advance  with EarlyShield , Similac , Similac  with Iron, Similac Sensitive ,
Similac Sensitive  RS, Similac Go Grow , Similac  NeoSure , Similac  Organic, Similac Special Care , Similac  Total
Comfort , Isomil  Advance , Isomil , Alimentum , Gain , and Grow    
           adult and other pediatric nutritional products, including Ensure , Ensure Plus ,
Ensure  Muscle Health, Ensure  (with Nutrivigor ), Glucerna , Glucerna  Hunger Smart , ProSure ,
PediaSure , PediaSure Sidekicks , EleCare , Juven , Abound , and Pedialyte    
           nutritional products used in enteral feeding in health care institutions, including Jevity ,
Glucerna  1.2 Cal, Glucerna  1.5 Cal, Osmolite , Oxepa , Freego (Enteral Pump) and Freego  sets, and Nepro  and    
           Zone Perfect  bars and the EAS  family of nutritional brands, including Myoplex  and
AdvantEdge .    
 
  4  

Primary
marketing efforts for nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation of Abbott's brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. In
addition, certain nutritional products sold as Gain , Grow , PediaSure , PediaSure Sidekicks , Pedialyte , Ensure , Zone
Perfect , EAS /Myoplex , and Glucerna  are also promoted directly to the public by consumer marketing efforts in select markets.   

          Competition
for nutritional products in the segment is generally from other diversified consumer and health care manufacturers. Competitive factors include consumer advertising,
formulation, packaging, scientific innovation, intellectual property, price, and availability of product forms. A significant aspect of competition is the search for ingredient innovations. The
introduction of new products by competitors, changes in medical practices and procedures, and regulatory changes can result in product obsolescence. In addition, private label and local manufacturers'
products may increase competitive pressure.   

    Vascular Products     

          These products include a broad line of coronary, endovascular, vessel closure, and structural heart devices for the treatment of
vascular disease manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide. The segment's products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses.
Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.   

          The
principal products included in the Vascular Products segment are:  

Xience Xpedition , Xience Prime , Xience nano , and Xience V ,
drug-eluting coronary stent systems developed on the Multi-Link Vision  platform;   
           Absorb , a drug-eluting coronary bioresorbable vascular scaffold;    
           Multi-Link 8 , Multi-Link Vision  and Multi-Link Mini
Vision , coronary metallic stents;   
           TREK  and Voyager , coronary balloon dilatation products;    
           Hi-Torque Balance Middleweight Elite  and ASAHI  coronary guidewires (licensed from
Asahi Intecc Co., Ltd.);   
           StarClose  and Perclose  vessel closure devices;    
           Acculink /Accunet  and Xact /Emboshield NAV 6  , carotid stent
systems;   
           Armada  and Absolute Pro Peripheral  balloon dilatation products;    
           Herculink Elite Renal  and Omnilink Elite Iliac  stent systems; and    
           MitraClip , a percutaneous valve repair system.    

The
Vascular Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, product performance, long-term supply
contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes.
Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products.   

    Other Products     

          The principal products in Abbott's other businesses include blood glucose monitoring meters, test strips, data management software and
accessories for people with diabetes, including the FreeStyle  product line, and medical devices for the eye, including cataract surgery, LASIK surgery, contact lens care products, and dry
eye products. These products are mostly marketed worldwide and generally sold directly to wholesalers, government agencies, health care facilities, mail order pharmacies, and independent   

  5  

retailers
from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Some of these products are marketed and distributed through distributors. Blood glucose monitoring meters, contact lens care
products, and dry eye products are also marketed and sold over-the-counter to consumers. These products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price,
convenience of use, service, and product performance. Medical devices for the eye also can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes.   

INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL            

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials     

          Abbott purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to Abbott's operations from numerous
suppliers in the United States and abroad. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.   

    Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses     

          Abbott is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection for its products. Accordingly, where possible, patents and
trademarks are sought and obtained for Abbott's products in the United States and all countries of major marketing interest to Abbott. Abbott owns and is licensed under a substantial number of patents
and patent applications. Principal trademarks and the products they cover are discussed in the Narrative Description of Business on pages 1 through 5. These, and various patents which expire
during the period 2013 to 2032, in the aggregate, are believed to be of material importance in the operation of Abbott's business. Abbott believes that, after the separation of AbbVie, no single
patent, license, or trademark is material in relation to Abbott's business as a whole. In connection with the separation and distribution of AbbVie, Abbott contributed certain pharmaceutical related
patents, licenses, and trademarks to AbbVie. Patent-related litigation is discussed in Legal Proceedings on pages 18 through 20.   

Seasonal Aspects, Customers, Backlog, and Renegotiation     

          There are no significant seasonal aspects to Abbott's business. Abbott has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would
have a material adverse effect on Abbott. Orders for Abbott's products are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to Abbott's business. No material portion of Abbott's
business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.   

    Research and Development     

          Abbott spent approximately $4.3 billion in 2012, $4.1 billion in 2011, and $3.7 billion in 2010, on research to
discover and develop new products and processes and to improve existing products and processes. The majority of research and development expenditures was concentrated on proprietary pharmaceutical
products.   

    Environmental Matters     

          Abbott believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental
protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. Abbott's capital
and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2012 were approximately $12 million and $63 million, respectively. After the separation of AbbVie, capital and operating expenditures
for pollution control in 2013 are estimated to be $10 million and $53 million, respectively.   

          Abbott
has been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, under
the Comprehensive   

  6  

Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Abbott is also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which are owned by Abbott, in cooperation
with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation activities,
Abbott believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse
effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.   

Employees     

          Abbott employed approximately 91,000 persons as of December 31, 2012. Approximately 21,000 persons were transferred to AbbVie in
connection with the separation.   

    Regulation     

          The development, manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion, and distribution of Abbott's products are subject to comprehensive government
regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and similar international regulatory agencies. Government regulation by various international, supranational, federal and state agencies, both
domestic and international, addresses (among other matters) the development and approval to market Abbott's products, as well as the inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory
procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, supply chains, marketing and promotion, pricing and reimbursement, sampling, distribution, quality
control, post-market surveillance, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices. Abbott's international operations are also affected by trade regulations in many countries that limit
the import of raw materials and finished products and by local and international laws and regulations that seek to prevent corruption and bribery in the marketplace (including the United States
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act which provide among other things, guidance on corporate interactions with government officials). In addition, Abbott is subject to laws
and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including state and federal anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United States. Prescription drug, nutrition, and medical
device manufacturers such as Abbott are also subject to taxes, as well as application, product, user, establishment, and other fees. Governmental agencies can also invalidate intellectual property
rights and control the entrance of multi-source drugs for small molecule and generic biologic medicines.   

          Compliance
with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects Abbott's business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially increase the time, difficulty,
and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. Abbott expects this regulatory environment will continue to require significant technical
expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can delay the release of a new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the
suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for a product's production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties.   

          In
addition to regulatory initiatives, Abbott's business can be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their
components that are regularly conducted by industry participants, government agencies, and others. These studies can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed
products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of marketing of such products domestically or globally, and may give rise to claims for
damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.   

Access
to human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in the United States
and other countries. A major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the   

  7  

private
sector, notably by health care payors and providers, which have instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. Abbott expects insurers and providers to continue attempts to reduce
the cost of health care products. Many countries control the price of health care products directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage limitations, or compulsory
licensing, and are adopting laws and rules to govern the introduction of biosimilar products. Domestic and foreign budgetary pressures may also heighten the scope and severity of pricing pressures on
Abbott's products for the foreseeable future.   

          Specifically,
U.S. federal laws requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under
state Medicaid plans, and the efforts by states to seek additional rebates, affect Abbott's proprietary pharmaceutical business. Similarly, the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 requires manufacturers
to extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service entities and
institutions, as well as certain other covered entities. The Veterans Health Care Act also established the 340B drug discount program, which requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to provide products
at reduced prices to designated health care facilities.   

          In
the United States, most states also have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's version of a
pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or
Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a
fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures
for many health care products. End stage renal disease treatment is covered through a bundled payment that likewise creates incentives for providers to control costs. Medicare enters into contracts
with private plans to negotiate prices for medicine delivered under Part D.   

          Under
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the Affordable Care Act), Abbott pays a fee related to its
pharmaceutical sales to government programs. In 2011, Abbott began providing a discount of 50 percent for branded prescription drugs sold to patients who fall into the Medicare Part D
coverage gap, or "donut hole." The Affordable Care Act has also implemented the Medicare Shared Savings Program, which created accountable care organizations. The program provides incentives for
health care providers to potentially reduce utilization of health care products by allowing accountable care organizations to share in Medicare savings. In 2013, as a result of the Affordable Care
Act, manufacturers will begin paying an excise tax on sales of certain medical devices. Medicare is also implementing a competitive bidding system for durable medical equipment (including diabetes
products), enteral nutrition products, and supplies.   

          The
Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs, biologics, devices and medical supplies covered under
Medicare and Medicaid starting in 2013 to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data beginning in 2014 to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level domestically, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are
considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties.   

With
the separation of AbbVie at the beginning of 2013, Abbott no longer sells pharmaceutical products in the U.S. and therefore is no longer subject to certain fees, rebates, and
discounts applicable to U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturers.   

  8  

In
the United States, governmental cost containment efforts also affect Abbott's nutrition business. Under regulations governing the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition
Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), all states must have a cost containment program for infant formula. As a result, through competitive bidding states obtain rebates from manufacturers of
infant formula whose products are used in the program.   

          Abbott
expects debate to continue during 2013 at all government levels worldwide over the marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services.
Abbott believes that future legislation and regulation in the markets it serves could affect access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or reimbursements or the rate
of price increases for health care products and services, change health care delivery systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceutical, nutrition, diagnostic, and medical device
industries, or require additional reporting and disclosure. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed
above.   

          On
April 19, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois vacated a consent decree to which Abbott was previously a party. The consent decree required
Abbott to ensure its diagnostics manufacturing processes in Lake County, Illinois conform to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Quality System Regulation and restricted the sale in the
United States of certain products in the Diagnostic Products segment. In 2003, the FDA concluded that those operations were in substantial conformity with the Quality System Regulation.   

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS            

          Abbott markets products worldwide through affiliates and distributors. Most of the products discussed in the preceding sections of this
report are also sold outside the United States. In addition, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines to meet local regulatory requirements and marketing preferences are
manufactured and marketed to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including
price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.   

INTERNET INFORMATION            

          Copies of Abbott's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through
Abbott's investor relations website (   www.abbottinvestor.com   ) as soon as reasonably practicable after Abbott electronically files the material with, or
furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

          Abbott's
corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of Abbott's audit committee, compensation committee,
nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on Abbott's investor relations website (   www.abbottinvestor.com   ).   

  9  

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS            

          In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered before deciding to invest in any
of Abbott's securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Abbott, or risks Abbott currently considers immaterial, could also affect Abbott's actual results. Abbott's business,
financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.   

    Abbott may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of or spin-off businesses, which could cause it to
incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability.     

          Abbott may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of or spin-off some
of its businesses, as part of its business strategy. Abbott may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected
benefits. If Abbott is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be
successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. Abbott may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and
could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. Abbott could also experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or
disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of Abbott's credit
rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.   

    The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may affect Abbott's future revenues and operating income.     

          Many of Abbott's businesses rely on patent and trademark and other intellectual property protection. Although most of the challenges to
Abbott's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property protections. To the extent Abbott's intellectual property is successfully
challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or to the extent it does not allow Abbott to compete effectively, Abbott's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce Abbott's
intellectual property rights or to the extent that countries require compulsory licensing of its intellectual property, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced. Abbott's patents
and trademarks are described in greater detail in the section captioned "Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses," and litigation regarding these patents is described in the section captioned "Legal
Proceedings."   

    Competitors' intellectual property may prevent Abbott from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability and financial condition.     

          Competitors may claim that an Abbott product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property
infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require Abbott to enter into license agreements. Abbott cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain license agreements on commercially
reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject Abbott to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale or use of
affected Abbott products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.   

    Abbott is subject to cost containment efforts that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating income.     

In the United States and other countries, Abbott's businesses have experienced downward pressure on product pricing. Cost containment
efforts by governments and private organizations are described in   

  10  

greater
detail in the section captioned "Regulation." To the extent these cost containment efforts are not offset by greater patient access to health care or other factors, Abbott's future revenues
and operating income will be reduced.   

    Abbott is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes.     

          Abbott's products are subject to rigorous regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and numerous international,
supranational, federal, and state authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be
granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new
indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in revenues, and in substantial additional costs.   

          In
addition, no assurance can be given that Abbott will remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once clearance or approval has been obtained for a
product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, and advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports
and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. Many of Abbott's facilities and procedures and those of Abbott's suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by
the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Abbott must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. Possible regulatory actions for
non-compliance could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of Abbott's products, and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in,
among other things, substantial modifications to Abbott's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls, or seizures of Abbott's products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or
more of Abbott's facilities while Abbott or Abbott's suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or
suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt Abbott's business and have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues, profitability and financial condition.   

Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on Abbott, require Abbott to change its business practices, and restrict its
operations in the future.     

          Abbott's industry is also subject to various federal, state, and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit
program reimbursement, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, and international and individual state laws relating
to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment, and
exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and
they are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Abbott to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition,
violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Abbott's business and result in a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues, profitability, and financial condition.   

    Changes in the health care regulatory environment may adversely affect Abbott's business.     

          A number of the provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of
2010 require further rulemaking action by governmental agencies to implement. The laws change access to health care products and services and create new fees for the pharmaceutical and medical device
industries. Future rulemaking could increase rebates, reduce prices or   

  11  

the
rate of price increases for health care products and services, or require additional reporting and disclosure. Abbott cannot predict the timing or impact of any future rulemaking.   

Abbott's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause Abbott's revenue and profitability
to decline.     

          To remain competitive, Abbott must continue to launch new products and technologies. To accomplish this, Abbott commits substantial
efforts, funds, and other resources to research and development. A high rate of failure is inherent in the research and development of new products and technologies. Abbott must make ongoing
substantial expenditures without any assurance that its efforts will be commercially successful. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including after significant funds have been invested.   

Promising
new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may only have limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical
outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or
infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Even if Abbott successfully develops new products or enhancements or new generations of Abbott's existing products, they may be quickly
rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors' innovations. Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things,
entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. Abbott cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development will be launched,
whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or new
indications for existing products may cause Abbott's products to become obsolete, causing Abbott's revenues and operating results to suffer.   

    New products and technological advances by Abbott's competitors may negatively affect Abbott's results of operations.     

          Abbott's products face intense competition from its competitors' products. Competitors' products may be safer, more effective, more
effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or superior performance features than Abbott's products. Abbott cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction of
competitors' products.   

    The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if Abbott or one of its suppliers encounters problems manufacturing products,
Abbott's business could suffer.     

          The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements.
Problems may arise during
manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters, and environmental factors.
In addition, single suppliers are currently used for certain products and materials. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This
could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect
to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. To the extent Abbott or one of its
suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.   

  12  

Significant safety issues could arise for Abbott's products, which could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and financial condition.     

          Health care products typically receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration.
Following regulatory approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If new safety
issues are reported, Abbott may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, Abbott may be required to provide additional warnings on a product's label or narrow its approved
intended use, either of which could reduce the product's market acceptance. If serious safety issues arise with an Abbott product, sales of the product could be halted by Abbott or by regulatory
authorities. Safety issues affecting suppliers' or competitors' products also may reduce the market acceptance of Abbott's products.   

          In
addition, in the ordinary course of business, Abbott is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products or the products of other companies that Abbott
promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their validity or
ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on Abbott's business and reputation and on Abbott's ability to attract and retain customers. Consequences may also include additional costs, a
decrease in market share for the products, lower income or exposure to other claims. Product liability losses are self-insured. Product liability claims could have a material adverse
effect on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.   

    Further deterioration in the economic position and credit quality of certain European countries may negatively affect Abbott's results of operations.     

          If economic conditions in certain European countries, including Greece, Portugal, Italy, and Spain, continue to worsen, the time it
takes to collect outstanding trade receivables may increase. Financial instability and fiscal deficits in these countries may result in additional austerity measures to reduce costs, including health
care. At the same time, ongoing sovereign debt issues, including the impact of credit downgrades, could increase Abbott's collection risk given that a significant amount of Abbott's receivables in
these countries are with governmental health care systems.   

    Abbott depends on sophisticated information technology systems to operate its business and a cyber attack or other breach of these systems could have a material adverse
effect on Abbott's results of operations.     

          Similar to other large multi-national companies, the size and complexity of Abbott's information technology systems makes them
vulnerable to a cyber attack, malicious intrusion, breakdown, destruction, loss of data privacy, or other significant disruption. Abbott's systems have been and are expected to continue to be the
target of malware and other cyber attacks. Abbott has invested in its systems and the protection of its data to reduce the risk of an invasion or interruption and monitors its systems on an ongoing
basis for any current or potential threats. There can be no assurance that these measures and efforts will prevent future interruptions or breakdowns that could have a significant effect on Abbott's
business.   

    Abbott may incur operational difficulties or be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the separation.     

AbbVie and Abbott entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements to govern the separation of AbbVie
from Abbott and the relationship between the two companies going forward. Certain of these agreements provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period
of time. If AbbVie is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, Abbott could incur operational difficulties or losses. These arrangements
could also lead to disputes between Abbott and AbbVie over   

  13  

Abbott's
rights to certain shared property and rights and over the allocation of costs and revenues for products and operations.   

          The
separation and distribution agreement also provides for, among other things, indemnification obligations designed to make AbbVie financially responsible for substantially all
liabilities that may exist relating to its business activities, whether incurred prior to or after AbbVie's separation from Abbott, as well as those obligations of Abbott assumed by AbbVie pursuant to
the separation and distribution agreement. It is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between Abbott and AbbVie and require Abbott to assume responsibility for obligations
allocated to AbbVie. Third parties could also seek to hold Abbott responsible for any of these liabilities or obligations. The indemnity rights Abbott has under the separation agreement may not be
sufficient to protect Abbott. Even if Abbott is successful in obtaining indemnification, Abbott may have to bear losses temporarily. In addition, Abbott's indemnity obligations to AbbVie may be
significant. These risks could negatively affect Abbott's results of operations.   

    There could be significant liability if the distribution of AbbVie common stock to Abbott shareholders is determined to be a taxable transaction.     

          Abbott received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to the effect that, among other things, the separation
and the distribution of AbbVie qualifies as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code (the
Code). In addition, Abbott received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the separation and distribution qualifies as a transaction that is described in Sections 355(a) and
368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. The ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Abbott and AbbVie regarding the past and future conduct of the companies'
respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, Abbott and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the
ruling or the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the receipt by Abbott of the private letter ruling from the IRS and opinion of tax counsel,
the IRS could determine on audit that the separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it
disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the share ownership of
Abbott or AbbVie after the separation. If the separation is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Abbott and its shareholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could
incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.   

    The international nature of Abbott's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline.     

Abbott's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Following the separation of AbbVie, sales outside
of the United States are expected to make up approximately 70 percent of Abbott's net sales. The risks associated with Abbott's operations outside the United States
include:  

fluctuations in currency exchange rates;   
           changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs;   
           multiple regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict Abbott's ability to manufacture,
market, and sell its products;   
           differing local product preferences and product requirements;   
           trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;   
           difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing operations;    
 
  14  

differing labor regulations;   
           potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;    
           political and economic instability, including sovereign debt issues;   
           price and currency exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization,
and other governmental action;   
           inflation, recession and fluctuations in interest rates;   
           compulsory licensing or diminished protection of intellectual property; and    
           potential penalties or other adverse consequences for violations of anti-corruption, anti-bribery
and other similar laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act.    

Events
contemplated by these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.   

    Other factors can have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability and financial condition.     

          Many other factors can affect Abbott's profitability and its financial condition,
including:  

changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements,
product marketing application standards, product labeling, source, and use laws, and environmental laws;   
           differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for
pensions, retiree health care, stock compensation, intangibles, and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation, the absence of a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the minimum,
compared to the actual amount;   
           changes in the rate of inflation (including the cost of raw materials, commodities, and supplies), interest rates, market
value of Abbott's equity investments, and the performance of investments held by Abbott or Abbott's employee benefit trusts;   
           changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to Abbott or Abbott's
employee benefit trusts;   
           changes in business, economic, and political conditions, including: war, political instability, terrorist attacks, the
threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor disputes, strikes,
slow-downs, or other forms of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups;   
           changes in Abbott's business units and investments and changes in the relative and absolute contribution of each to
earnings and cash flow resulting from evolving business strategies, changing product mix, changes in tax laws or tax rates both in the U.S. and abroad and opportunities existing now or in the future;    
           changes in the buying patterns of a major distributor, retailer, or wholesale customer resulting from buyer purchasing
decisions, pricing, seasonality, or other factors, or other problems with licensors, suppliers, distributors, and business partners;   
           changes in credit markets impacting Abbott's ability to obtain financing for its business operations; and    
 
  15  

legal difficulties, any of which could preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect profitability,
including claims asserting statutory or regulatory violations, and adverse litigation decisions.    

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS            

          This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations, estimates,
and projections. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "forecasts," variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify
these forward-looking statements. Certain factors, including but not limited to those identified under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K, may cause actual results to
differ materially from current expectations, estimates, projections, forecasts, and from past results. No assurance can be made that any expectation, estimate, or projection contained in a
forward-looking statement will be achieved or will not be affected by the factors cited above or other future events. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to
forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments, except as required by law.    

ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS            

          None.   

  16  

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES            

Abbott's corporate offices are located at 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064. The locations of Abbott's principal
plants, as of December 31, 2012, are listed below.   

Location    
     
   Segments of Products Produced    

Abbott Park, Illinois  
     
  Proprietary Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Products  

Alajuela, Costa Rica  
     
  Vascular Products  

Alcobendas, Spain  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Altavista, Virginia  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Anasco, Puerto Rico*  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Baddi, India  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Barceloneta, Puerto Rico**  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical, Proprietary Pharmaceutical, Diagnostic and Vascular Products  

Branch Beringen, Switzerland*  
     
  Vascular Products  

Brockville, Canada  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Campoverde di Aprilia, Italy**  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical and Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products  

Casa Grande, Arizona  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Chatillon, France  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Clonmel, Ireland  
     
  Vascular Products  

Columbus, Ohio  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Cootehill, Ireland  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Cork, Ireland**  
     
  Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products  

Des Plaines, Illinois  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Donegal, Ireland  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Fairfield, California*  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Granada, Spain  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Hangzhou, China  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Irving, Texas  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Jayuya, Puerto Rico**  
     
  Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products  

Karachi, Pakistan  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Katsuyama, Japan  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Longford, Ireland  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Ludwigshafen, Germany**  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical and Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products  

Menlo Park, California*  
     
  Vascular Products  

Milpitas, California*  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Murrieta, California  
     
  Vascular Products  

Neustadt, Germany  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

North Chicago, Illinois**  
     
  Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products  

Olst, the Netherlands  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Ottawa, Ontario, Canada*  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Princeton, New Jersey*  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Redwood City, California*  
     
  Vascular Products  

Rio de Janeiro, Brazil  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Santa Clara, California  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Singapore  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Sligo, Ireland**  
     
  Proprietary Pharmaceutical, Nutritional and Diagnostic Products  

Sturgis, Michigan  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Temecula, California  
     
  Vascular Products  

Tlalpan, Mexico  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Uppsala, Sweden  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Weesp, the Netherlands  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Wiesbaden, Delkenheim, Germany  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Witney, Oxon, England  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Worcester, Massachusetts**  
     
  Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products  

Zwolle, the Netherlands  
     
  Nutritional Products  

*    Leased
property
      **    Contributed
to AbbVie in connection with the separation on January 1, 2013.    

17  

In addition to the above, as of December 31, 2012, Abbott had manufacturing facilities in seven other locations in the United States,
including Puerto Rico, one of which was contributed to AbbVie in connection with the separation. Outside the United States, Abbott had manufacturing facilities located in two other countries. Abbott's
facilities are deemed suitable and provide adequate productive capacity.   

After
the separation of AbbVie, Abbott's research and development facilities in the United States are primarily located in California, Illinois, New Jersey, and Ohio. Abbott also has
research and development facilities in various other countries including Germany, Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Prior to the separation of AbbVie, research and development
related to the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment was carried out in various locations including California, Illinois and Massachusetts in the United States, Germany, and Japan.   

          Except
as noted, the corporate offices, and those principal plants in the United States listed above, are owned by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. The remaining manufacturing plants
and all other facilities are owned or leased by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. There are no material encumbrances on the properties.    

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS            

          Abbott is involved in various claims, legal proceedings and investigations, including (as of January 31, 2013, except where
noted below) those described below. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims, proceedings and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion that their
ultimate resolution should not have a material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.   

          Seven
shareholder derivative lawsuits are pending in a consolidated proceeding,    In Re Abbott-Depakote Shareholder Derivative Litigation   ,
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against certain of Abbott's current and former directors and members of senior management. The lawsuits allege a breach of
fiduciary duty in relation to certain business practices regarding the sales and marketing of Depakote. In each case, the plaintiffs request damages nominally on behalf of Abbott, attorneys' fees, and
other forms of relief.    In Re Abbott-Depakote Shareholder Derivative Litigation    includes:    Chester County Employees' Retirement
Fund   ,    Warren Pinchuck and Roy Sapir, and Jacksonville Police   Fire Pension Fund,    all filed in November 2011;     Louisiana Municipal Police
Employees' Retirement System    and    Pipefitters Local Union 537 Pension Fund   ,
both filed in December 2011;    Public School Retirement System of the School District of Kansas City, Missouri   , filed in January 2012; and     Pipefitters Local Union No. 120
Pension Fund   , filed in April 2012. Two lawsuits were previously pending in the Circuit Court for the Nineteenth
Judicial Circuit, Lake County, Illinois:    Patricia Goodman   , filed in November 2011, and    William Bojan   ,
filed in December 2011. These two cases were dismissed in March 2012.   

          In
January 2008, Cordis Corporation and Wyeth filed suit against Abbott in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that the Xience V stent infringes
three patents and seeking an injunction, damages, and a determination of willful infringement. In January 2012, the court issued an order invalidating the plaintiff's patents and dismissing the case
against Abbott. Cordis and Wyeth withdrew one patent from the case and in June 2012 appealed the court's order invalidating the remaining two patents. In a separate action, in September 2009, Wyeth,
Cordis Corporation, and Cordis LLC filed suit against Abbott in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging the Xience V (and later the Xience Prime) stent systems
infringe an additional patent, and in August 2010 the plaintiffs amended their lawsuit to add a second related patent to this case. The plaintiffs in this case seek an injunction and damages. Abbott
denies all substantive allegations in this case. In February 2012, the court stayed the litigation pending the completion of    inter partes    reexamination
of the two patents at issue by the United States Patent and Trademark Office and any resulting appeals.   

In
December 2008, Medinol Limited (Medinol) sued Abbott in the District Court of The Hague, the Netherlands, and the Regional Court in Dusseldorf, Germany asserting that Abbott's Vision
and Xience V   

  18  

stents
infringe one of Medinol's European stent design patents. Medinol subsequently accused Abbott's Multi-Link 8 and Xience Prime stents of infringement of the same European stent
design patent. In December 2009, the Dutch court found that Abbott's stents do not infringe Medinol's European patent, but did not rule on the patent's validity. Medinol appealed the Dutch court's
finding, and in October 2012, the Dutch appeals court affirmed the lower court finding of noninfringement. Also in December 2008, Medinol asserted in the Dusseldorf court that Abbott's Vision, Xience
V, Penta, Xience Prime, Multi-Link 8, and Zeta stents infringe two Medinol German stent design patents and one Medinol German stent design utility model. Abbott initiated an action
in the German Federal Patent Court seeking a declaration that Medinol's patents are invalid. In March 2010, the Dusseldorf court, which does not assess the validity of patents, found that Abbott's
stents do not infringe Medinol's European patent, but that they do infringe Medinol's two German stent design patents. Medinol has appealed the Dusseldorf court's non-infringement decision
with respect to the European patent and Abbott has appealed the infringement decisions with respect to the two German patents. In November and December 2010, the German Federal Patent Court held two
invalidity hearings on the European patent and two German patents being asserted by Medinol in Germany, and in January 2011, found all such Medinol patents invalid. However, after allowing Medinol to
modify the claims for one of its German patents, the German Federal Patent Court concluded that the modified claims of that patent were valid. The question of validity of these patents has been
appealed to the Federal Supreme Court. In June 2011, Medinol asserted a second, related European patent against Abbott in the Dusseldorf court. The question of validity of this second European patent,
and of the German stent design utility model, is subject to continued lower court proceedings. The infringement proceedings for all patents at issue are stayed, pending further determinations relating
to the question of validity. Medinol seeks damages and injunctions in The Netherlands and seeks damages in Germany. Abbott denies all substantive allegations in each case.   

The
United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Tennessee, and the Texas State Attorney General are investigating the
sales and marketing activities of Abbott's biliary stent products. Investigations are also ongoing relating to the sales and marketing activities for Abbott's carotid and coronary stents and stent
related products by the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Tennessee, as previously mentioned, and the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Maryland. The
government is seeking to determine whether any of these activities violated civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, the Food and Drug Cosmetic Act, and the
Anti-Kickback Statute in connection with Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties.   

As
previously reported, Abbott was seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to fenofibrate tablets (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark TriCor ). In a case filed in
the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in August 2011, Abbott and the patent owner, Laboratoires Fournier, S.A. (Fournier), alleged infringement of three patents and
sought injunctive relief against Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Mylan, Inc. (Mylan). In a related case where Abbott was involved as a result of its acquisition of Fournier Laboratories
Ireland Ltd. (Fournier Ireland), Abbott sought to enforce additional rights relating to fenofibrate tablets. In a case filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey
in August 2011, Abbott's subsidiary, Fournier Ireland, and joint patent owner, Alkermes Pharma Ireland Limited, alleged infringement of two jointly-owned patents and sought injunctive relief against
Mylan. In the fourth quarter of 2012, this case was settled and dismissed without prejudice.   

          On
January 1, 2013, Abbott completed the separation and distribution of AbbVie. As previously reported, Abbott was a party to a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the Office
of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services relating to Abbott's United States pharmaceuticals business. The CIA required enhancements to certain compliance procedures
and contained numerous reporting and monitoring obligations. Abbott also submitted to a term of probation that was initially set at 5 years, and was shortened to 3 years upon the
separation of AbbVie. The   

  19  

conditions
of probation included certain reporting requirements, maintenance of certain compliance measures, certifications of the CEO and board of directors, and other conditions. The obligations
under the CIA and the conditions of probation became effective in October 2012 and transferred to and became fully binding on AbbVie upon the separation. Abbott is no longer a party to the CIA or
subject to probation.   

          Pursuant
to the separation and distribution agreement, AbbVie is responsible for certain investigations, claims and litigation matters relating to Abbott's former research-based
pharmaceuticals business. In some cases, AbbVie has been substituted for Abbott, and Abbott is no longer a party to such
investigations, claims and litigation matters. In addition, AbbVie has assumed the liabilities associated with, and has agreed to indemnify Abbott for any damages incurred in connection with, certain
investigations, claims and litigation matters, including the following:   

          Several
cases are pending that generally allege that Abbott and numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false pricing information in connection with certain drugs that are
reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid. These cases, brought by state Attorneys General, generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. The following cases are pending
in state courts:    Commonwealth of Kentucky   , filed in September 2003 in the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky;    State of
Wisconsin   , filed in June 2004 in the Circuit Court of Dane County, Wisconsin;    State of Illinois   , filed in February 2005 in the
Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois; and    State of Louisiana   , filed in October 2010 in the Nineteenth Judicial District, Parish of Baton Rouge,
Louisiana. The previously reported federal court cases consolidated under the Multi District Litigation Rules as    In Re Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price
Litigation, MDL 1456   , have been settled, and the following previously reported cases have been settled in principle:    State of
Alaska   , filed in October 2006 in the Superior Court for the Third Judicial District in Anchorage, Alaska;    State of Idaho   , filed
in January 2007 in the District Court of the Fourth District in Ada County, Idaho; and    State of Utah   , filed in November 2007 in the Third Judicial
District in Salt Lake County, Utah.   

          In
a case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in April 2012, Abbott is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to ritonavir tablets (a drug
Abbott sells under the trademark Norvir ). Abbott alleges that Roxane Laboratories, Inc.'s (Roxane) proposed generic product infringes five Abbott patents and seeks declaratory and
injunctive relief. Also in April 2012, Roxane filed a declaratory judgment action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio alleging that two Abbott patents are invalid and
not infringed by Roxane's proposed generic product. In November 2012, Roxane filed an amended declaratory judgment complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio,
naming AbbVie as a defendant along with Abbott.    

ITEM 4.    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES            

          Not applicable.   

  20  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT            

          Executive officers of Abbott are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers are elected by the board or appointed
by the chairman of the board. All officers are either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual shareholder meeting or appointed by the chairman after that board
meeting. Each officer holds office until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officer's death, resignation, or removal. Vacancies may be filled at any time by the
board. Any officer may be removed by the board of directors when, in its judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. Any officer appointed by the chairman of the board may be removed
by the chairman whenever, in the chairman's judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. A vacancy in any office appointed by the chairman of the board may be filled by the chairman.   

          Abbott's
executive officers, their ages as of February 15, 2013, and the dates of their first election as officers of Abbott are listed below. The executive officers' principal
occupations and employment for the past five years and the year of appointment to the earliest reported office are also shown. Unless otherwise stated, employment was by Abbott. There are no family
relationships between any corporate officers or directors.   

    Miles D. White, 57     

1999
to present   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Director.   

Elected
Corporate Officer   1993.   

Hubert L. Allen, 47     

2013
to present   Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.   

  2010
to 2012   Divisional Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Established Pharmaceuticals.   

  2009
to 2010   Divisional Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Proprietary Pharmaceuticals.   

2007
to 2009   Section Head, Legal, Abbott Nutrition.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2012.   

Richard W. Ashley, 69     

2004
to present   Executive Vice President, Corporate Development.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2004.   

Brian J. Blaser, 48     

2012
to present   Executive Vice President, Diagnostics Products.   

  2010
to 2012   Senior Vice President, Diagnostics.   

  2008
to 2010   Vice President, Diagnostics, Operations.   

  2008  
Divisional Vice President, Global Operations.   

  2007
to 2008   Divisional Vice President, Manufacturing.   

Elected
Corporate Officer   2008.   

John M. Capek, 51     

2007
to present   Executive Vice President, Medical Devices.   

21  

Elected
Corporate Officer   2006.   

Thomas C. Freyman, 58     

2004
to present   Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1991.   

John C. Landgraf, 60*     

2011
to present   Executive Vice President, Nutritional Products.   

2008
to 2010   Senior Vice President, Pharmaceuticals, Manufacturing and Supply.   

  2004
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and Supply.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2000.   

Michael J. Warmuth, 50     

2012
to present   Executive Vice President, Established Pharmaceuticals.   

2010
to 2012   Senior Vice President, Established Products, Pharmaceutical Products Group.   

  2008
to 2010   Senior Vice President, Diagnostics.   

  2008  
Vice President, Hematology Diagnostics.   

  2007
to 2008   Vice President, Global Engineering Services.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2007.   

A. David Forrest, 51     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, International Nutrition.   

  2007
to 2010   Divisional Vice President, Europe and Canada.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2010.   

Stephen R. Fussell, 55     

2005
to present   Senior Vice President, Human Resources.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

Paul K. Magill, 51     

2012
to present   Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer.   

  2009
to 2012   Principal, Senior Expert, McKinsey and Company (a management consulting firm).   

  2008
to 2009   Senior Partner, Monitor Group (a management consulting firm).   

Elected
Corporate Officer   2012.   

Heather L. Mason, 52     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, Diabetes Care.   

  2007
to 2008   Vice President, Latin America Pharmaceuticals.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

22  

Murthy Simhambhatla, 47     

2013
to present   Senior Vice President, Abbott Medical Optics.   

  2012  
Divisional Vice President and General Manager, Abbott Medical Optics.   

  2011
to 2012   Divisional Vice President and General Manager, Ibis.   

  2008
to 2011   General Manager, Australia and New Zealand.   

2006
to 2008   Divisional Vice President and General Manager, Drug Eluting Stents.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2012.   

J. Scott White, 44     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, U.S. Nutrition.   

  2007
to 2009   Division Vice President and Regional Director for Latin America, Abbott Nutrition International.   

Elected
Corporate Officer   2009.   

Greg W. Linder, 56**     

2001
to present   Vice President and Controller.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

*    Mr. Landgraf
has announced that he will retire from Abbott, effective February 28, 2013.
      **    Mr. Linder
has announced that he will retire from Abbott, effective February 28, 2013.    
  23  

PART II            

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES            

    Principal Market     

          The principal market for Abbott's common shares is the New York Stock Exchange. Shares are also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange
and traded on various regional and
electronic exchanges. Outside the United States, Abbott's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the SIX Swiss Exchange.   

Shareholders     

          There were 60,476 shareholders of record of Abbott common shares as of December 31, 2012.   

    Dividends     

          Abbott declared quarterly dividends of $.51 per share on common shares in the first, second and third quarters of 2012. In the fourth
quarter of 2012, Abbott declared a quarterly dividend of $.14 per share on common shares, reflecting the impact of the separation of AbbVie. On January 4, 2013, AbbVie reported that its board
of directors had declared a quarterly dividend of $.40 per share of AbbVie common stock.   

          Abbott
declared quarterly dividends of $.48 per share on common shares in 2011.   

          On
January 1, 2013, Abbott completed the distribution of the issued and outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. Abbott's shareholders of record as of the
close of business on December 12, 2012, the record date for the distribution, received one share of AbbVie common stock for each Abbott common share held as of the record date. Abbott
shareholders received cash in lieu of any fractional shares of AbbVie common stock.   

          Abbott
Laboratories is an Illinois High Impact Business (HIB) and is located in a federal Foreign Trade Sub-Zone (Sub-Zone 22F). Dividends may be eligible for a
subtraction from base income for Illinois income tax purposes. If you have questions, please contact your tax advisor.   

  24  

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

1.    These
shares include:

(i)    the
shares deemed surrendered to Abbott to pay the exercise price in connection with the exercise of employee stock options   140,158 in
October, 34,190 in November, and 66,285 in December; and
      (ii)    the
shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the Abbott Laboratories, Limited Employee Stock Purchase
Plan   0 in October, 10,000 in November, and 0 in December.     

These
shares do not include the shares surrendered to Abbott to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units.   

2.    On
October 13, 2008, Abbott announced that its board of directors approved the purchase of up to $5 billion of its common shares, from time to
time.    

25  

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA            

1.    The
$1.67 dividend for 2012 reflects a quarterly dividend of $.14 per share in the fourth quarter of 2012, which contemplated the impact of the separation of
AbbVie. On January 4, 2013, AbbVie reported that its board of directors had declared a quarterly dividend of $.40 per share of AbbVie common stock.    
  26  

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS            

Financial Review            

          Abbott's revenues are derived primarily from the sale of a broad line of health care products under short-term receivable
arrangements. Patent protection and licenses, technological and performance features, and inclusion of Abbott's products under a contract or by a pharmacy benefit manager most impact which products
are sold; price controls, competition and rebates most impact the net selling prices of products; and foreign currency translation impacts the measurement of net sales and costs. Abbott's primary
products are nutritional products, prescription pharmaceuticals, diagnostic testing products and vascular products.   

In
October 2011, Abbott announced a plan to separate into two publicly traded companies, one in diversified medical products and the other in research-based pharmaceuticals. To
accomplish the separation, Abbott created a new company, AbbVie Inc. ("AbbVie") for its research-based pharmaceuticals business which consists primarily of Abbott's Proprietary Pharmaceutical
Products segment. On January 1, 2013, Abbott distributed all of the outstanding shares of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. As a result of the distribution, AbbVie is now an independent company
trading under the symbol "ABBV". Beginning in the first quarter of 2013, the historical results of the research-based pharmaceuticals business will be reflected in Abbott's consolidated financial
statements as discontinued operations.   

          Prior
to the separation of AbbVie, sales in international markets were approximately 60 percent of consolidated net sales. Post-separation, sales outside the U.S. are
expected to comprise approximately 70 percent of net sales.   

          Continued
robust growth of    HUMIRA    in a broad range of indications, the acquisitions of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business (Solvay
Pharmaceuticals) and Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business, sales growth and margin improvement in the nutritional and diagnostics businesses, a government investigation of
Abbott's sales and marketing activities related to    Depakote   , and the challenging economic and fiscal environment in many countries around the world have
impacted Abbott's sales, costs and financial position over the last three years.   

          Pharmaceutical
research and development was focused over the last three years on therapeutic areas that included immunology, oncology, neuroscience, pain management, hepatitis C (HCV),
chronic kidney disease and women's health. In addition, Abbott acquired the rights to various in-process pharmaceutical research and development projects including the development of
second-generation oral antioxidant inflammation modulators and an oral, next-generation JAK1 inhibitor with the potential to treat multiple autoimmune diseases.   

In
2003, Abbott began the worldwide launch of    HUMIRA    for rheumatoid arthritis, followed by launches for six additional indications in the
U.S. and eight additional indications in the European Union.    HUMIRA's    worldwide sales increased to $9.3 billion in 2012 compared to
$7.9 billion in 2011, and $6.5 billion in 2010. Generic competition for    TriCor    began in the fourth quarter of 2012. Austerity measures
implemented by several European countries reduced healthcare spending and affected pharmaceutical pricing over the last three years. The U.S. proprietary pharmaceuticals business was negatively
affected by the 2010 U.S. health care reform legislation which resulted in rebate changes beginning in 2010 and the payment of an annual fee beginning in 2011.   

          In
February 2010, Abbott acquired Solvay Pharmaceuticals which provided Abbott with a large and complementary portfolio of pharmaceutical products and expanded Abbott's presence in key
global emerging markets. The acquisition added approximately $3.1 billion to Abbott's 2010 net sales, primarily outside the U.S. In September 2010, Abbott completed the acquisition of Piramal's
Healthcare Solutions business, propelling Abbott to market leadership in the Indian pharmaceutical market and further   

  27  

accelerating
the company's growth in emerging markets. Abbott recorded expense of approximately $262 million in 2012, $345 million in 2011 and $710 million in 2010 related to the
integration of the Solvay business and restructuring plans to streamline operations, improve efficiencies and reduce costs primarily in certain Solvay sites and functions.   

          In
May 2012, Abbott reached resolution of all    Depakote   -related federal claims, Medicaid-related claims with 49 states and the District of
Columbia, and consumer protection claims with 45 states and the District of Columbia. Abbott recorded charges related to this matter of $1.5 billion in 2011 and $100 million in 2012, of
which approximately $1.6 billion was paid in 2012.   

          In
Abbott's worldwide nutritional products business, sales were positively impacted by demographics such as an aging population and an increasing rate of chronic disease in developed
markets and the rise of a middle class in many emerging markets, as well as by numerous new product introductions that leveraged Abbott's strong brands. At the same time, manufacturing and
distribution process changes and other cost reductions drove margin improvements across the business.   

In
Abbott's worldwide diagnostics business, margin improvement continued to be a key focus and operating margins increased from 14.7 percent of sales in 2010 to
18.7 percent in 2012.   

          Over
the last three years, Abbott continued to build its    Xience    drug-eluting stent franchise with the receipt of approval to
market    Xience Xpedition    in various countries, including U.S. approval in the fourth quarter of 2012 as well as the launches of     Xience nano    and    Xience PRIME    in the U.S. in 2011, and    Xience
PRIME    and    Xience V    in Japan in April 2012 and January 2010, respectively.     Xience   , which includes    Xience V   ,    PRIME, nano    and
   Xpedition   , ended 2012 as the market-leading drug eluting stent globally. In 2011, the third party distributor of the Promus product began transitioning
away from the product and that supply agreement ended in 2012. The effect of the winding down of the agreement will continue into the first quarter of 2013.   

          In
2010, the U.S. government passed health care reform legislation which included an increase in Medicaid rebate rates and the extension of the rebate to drugs provided through Medicaid
managed care organizations beginning in 2010. The legislation also imposed annual fees which pharmaceutical manufacturers began paying in 2011 and medical device companies will begin paying in 2013,
as well as additional rebates related to the Medicare Part D "donut hole" beginning in 2011. In addition to a 2010 one-time charge of approximately $60 million to reduce
deferred tax assets associated with retiree health care liabilities related to the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy, the legislation's negative impact on Abbott's performance grew from more
than $200 million in 2010 to approximately $400 million per year in 2011 and 2012. The $400 million annual impact included approximately
$100 million for the annual pharmaceutical manufacturer fee. This fee is not tax-deductible and is included in selling, general and administrative expenses. With the separation of
AbbVie at the beginning of 2013, Abbott no longer sells pharmaceutical products in the U.S. and therefore is no longer subject to the annual pharmaceutical fee or the additional rebates. Beginning in
2013, Abbott will begin paying the 2.3 percent medical device tax under U.S. health care reform legislation. This tax will be included in selling, general and administrative expenses and the
amount of the tax is not expected to be material.   

          In
the fourth quarter of 2012, Abbott extinguished $7.7 billion of long-term debt and incurred a charge of $1.35 billion related to the early repayment, net of
gains from the unwinding of interest rate swaps related to the debt. Abbott's short- and long-term debt totaled $20.5 billion at December 31, 2012. This balance includes
$1 billion of short-borrowings and $14.7 billion of long-term debt that was issued by AbbVie Inc. in 2012. After the separation of AbbVie on January 1, 2013,
Abbott has no remaining obligations related to this $15.7 billion of debt. At December 31, 2012, Abbott's long-term debt rating was A+ by Standard and Poor's Corporation and
A1 by Moody's Investors Service. Operating cash flows in excess of capital expenditures and cash dividends have partially funded acquisitions over the last three years.   

  28  

In
2013, Abbott will focus on several key initiatives. In the nutritional business, Abbott will continue to build its product portfolio with the introduction of new science-based
products, expand in high-growth emerging markets and implement additional margin improvement initiatives. In the established pharmaceuticals business, which includes international sales of
branded generic products, Abbott will continue to focus on obtaining additional product approvals across numerous countries and expanding its presence in emerging markets. In the diagnostics business,
Abbott will focus on the development of next-generation instruments and other advanced technologies, expansion in emerging markets, and further improvements in the segment's operating
margin. In the vascular business, Abbott will continue to focus on marketing products in the    Xience    and endovascular franchises, increasing
international    MitraClip    sales, and obtaining regulatory review of the    MitraClip    device in the U.S. as
well as further clinical development of    ABSORB   , its bioresorbable vascular scaffold (BVS) device and a further roll-out of     ABSORB    in numerous countries. In
Abbott's other segments, Abbott will focus on developing differentiated technologies in higher growth markets.   

    Critical Accounting Policies     

            Sales Rebates       In 2012, approximately 56 percent of Abbott's consolidated gross revenues were subject to various forms of rebates
and allowances that Abbott recorded as reductions of revenues at the time of sale. Most of these rebates and allowances are in the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment and the Nutritional
Products segment. Abbott provides rebates to pharmacy benefit management companies, state agencies that administer the federal Medicaid program, insurance companies that administer Medicare drug
plans, state agencies that administer the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), wholesalers, group purchasing organizations, and other government agencies and
private entities. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices for a product. Factors used in the rebate calculations include the identification
of which products have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government agency price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a rebate. Using historical trends,
adjusted for current changes, Abbott estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when Abbott records its sale of the product.
Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from two to eight months after sale. Abbott regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and
terms of rebate programs. Rebates and chargebacks charged against gross sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010 amounted to approximately $6.2 billion, $5.5 billion and $4.9 billion,
respectively, or 22.9 percent, 22.2 percent and 23.1 percent, respectively, based on gross sales of approximately $26.9 billion, $24.8 billion and
$21.1 billion, respectively, subject to rebate. A one-percentage point increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales would decrease net sales by approximately
$269 million in 2012. Abbott considers a one-percentage point increase to be a reasonably likely increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales. Other allowances
charged against gross sales were approximately $542 million, $409 million and $415 million for cash discounts in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $365 million,
$490 million and $537 million for returns in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Cash discounts are known within 15 to 30 days of sale, and therefore can be reliably estimated.
Returns can be reliably estimated because Abbott's historical returns are low, and because sales returns terms and other sales terms have remained relatively unchanged for several periods.   

          Management
analyzes the adequacy of ending rebate accrual balances each quarter. In the domestic nutritional business, management uses both internal and external data available to
estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel. Management has access to several large customers' inventory management data, and for other customers, utilizes data from a third party that
measures time on the retail shelf. These sources allow management to make reliable estimates of inventory in the distribution channel. Except for a transition period before or after a change in the
supplier for the WIC business in a state, inventory in the distribution channel does not vary substantially. Management also estimates the states' processing lag time based on claims data. In
addition, internal processing time is a factor in   

  29  

estimating
the accrual. In the WIC business, the state where the sale is made, which is the determining factor for the applicable price, is reliably determinable. Estimates are required for the amount
of WIC sales within each state where Abbott has the WIC business. External data sources utilized for that estimate are participant data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which
administers the
WIC program, participant data from some of the states, and internally administered market research. The USDA has been making its data available for many years. Internal data includes historical
redemption rates and pricing data. At December 31, 2012, Abbott had WIC business in 22 states.   

In
the domestic proprietary pharmaceutical business, the most significant charges against gross sales are for Medicaid and Medicare Rebates, Pharmacy Benefit Manager Rebates and
Wholesaler Chargebacks. In order to evaluate the adequacy of the ending accrual balances, management uses both internal and external data to estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel
and the rebate claims processing lag time. External data sources used to estimate the inventory in the distribution channel include inventory levels periodically reported by wholesalers and third
party market data purchased by Abbott. Management estimates the processing lag time based on periodic sampling of claims data. To estimate the price rebate percentage, systems and calculations are
used to track sales by product by customer and to estimate the contractual or statutory price. Abbott's systems and calculations have developed over time as rebates have become more significant, and
Abbott believes they are reliable.   

          The
following table is an analysis of the four largest rebate accruals, which comprise approximately 70 percent of the consolidated rebate provisions charged against revenues in
2012. Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross sales are not significant in the determination of operating earnings. (   dollars in millions   )   

Historically,
adjustments to prior years' rebate accruals have not been material to net income. Abbott employs various techniques to verify the accuracy of claims submitted to it, and
where possible, works with the organizations submitting claims to gain insight into changes that might affect the rebate amounts. For Medicaid, Medicare and other government agency programs, the
calculation of a rebate involves interpretations of relevant regulations, which are subject to challenge or change in interpretation.   

Income Taxes       Abbott operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are
subject to audits and adjustments. Because Abbott operates globally, the nature of the audit items are often very complex, and the objectives of the government auditors can result in a tax on the same
income in more than one country. Abbott employs internal and external tax professionals to minimize audit adjustment amounts where possible. In accordance with the accounting rules relating to the
measurement of tax contingencies, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated
as the largest amount that is more   

  30  

than
50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit. Application of these rules requires a significant amount of judgment. In the U.S., Abbott's federal income tax returns
through 2009 are settled except for one item, and the income tax returns for years after 2009 are open. Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign
subsidiaries.   

            Pension and Post-Employment Benefits       Abbott offers pension benefits and post-employment health care to many of
its employees. Abbott engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under these programs. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most
significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rates and the expected return on plan assets. The discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on
high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The health care cost trend rates represent Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the
cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A difference between the assumed rates and the actual rates, which will not be known for
decades, can be significant in relation to the obligations and the annual cost recorded for these programs. Low asset returns due to poor market conditions and low interest rates have significantly
increased actuarial losses for these plans. At December 31, 2012, pretax net actuarial losses and prior service costs and (credits) recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
for Abbott's defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans were losses of $4.8 billion and $379 million, respectively. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining
service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method, in accordance with the rules for accounting for post-employment benefits. Differences between the expected
long-term return on plan assets and the actual annual return are amortized over a five-year period. Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements describes the impact
of a one-percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate; however, there can be no certainty that a change would be limited to only one percentage point.   

Valuation of Intangible Assets       Abbott has acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets that Abbott records at fair
value. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the health care field and valuations
are usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, terminal
values and market participants. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. Abbott engages independent valuation experts who review Abbott's critical assumptions
and calculations for acquisitions of significant intangibles. Abbott reviews definite-lived intangible assets for impairment each quarter using an undiscounted net cash flows approach. If the
undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is usually the discounted cash
flow amount. Where cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest group level for which cash flows are identifiable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets, which relate to in-process research and development acquired in a business combination, are reviewed for impairment annually or when an event that could result in an
impairment occurs. At December 31, 2012, goodwill and intangibles amounted to $15.8 billion and $8.6 billion, respectively, and amortization expense for intangible assets amounted
to $1.4 billion in 2012. There were no impairments of goodwill in 2012, 2011 or 2010. In 2012 and 2011, Abbott recorded impairment charges of $82 million and $174 million,
respectively, for certain research and development assets due to changes in the projected development and regulatory timelines for the projects.   

            Litigation       Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification No. 450,
"Contingencies." Under ASC No. 450, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss
contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period as additional
information becomes known. Accordingly, Abbott is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes   

  31  

known,
either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate
amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected. Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately
$70 million to $100 million for its legal proceedings and environmental exposures. Accruals of approximately $80 million have been recorded at December 31, 2012 for these
proceedings and exposures. These accruals represent management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by FASB ASC No. 450, "Contingencies."   

  32  

Results of Operations     

    Sales     

          The following table details the components of sales growth by reportable segment for the last three years:   

Total
Net Sales in 2012 reflect unit growth, partially offset by the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange. The decrease in 2012 Vascular Products sales is partially due
to the winding down of royalty and supply agreements related to certain third-party products, including Promus. Excluding this royalty and supply agreement revenue in both periods and the unfavorable
effect of exchange, Vascular Products sales   

  33  

increased
3.4 percent in 2012. In 2011 and 2010, Total Net, Total U.S., Total International, Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment and Established Pharmaceutical Products segment sales
reflect the acquisition of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business on February 15, 2010 and unit growth, while the relatively weaker U.S. dollar favorably impacted international sales across all
segments. Total Net, Total International and Established Pharmaceutical Products segment sales growth in 2011 also reflects the acquisition of Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solution business
in September 2010.   

          A
comparison of significant product and product group sales is as follows. Percent changes are versus the prior year and are based on unrounded numbers.   

n/m  
Percent change is not meaningful    

(1)    Other
Coronary Products include primarily guidewires and balloon catheters. Endovascular includes vessel closure, carotid stents and other peripheral
products.    

34  

Excluding
the negative effect of exchange, Total International Proprietary sales increased 8.9 percent in 2012. In Proprietary Pharmaceuticals, a generic version of     TriCor    entered the U.S. market in the
fourth quarter of 2012. Total Established Pharmaceutical Products sales decreased in 2012 due to the negative
effect of exchange and decreased sales of    Clarithromycin    and    Serc    due to, in part, pricing pressures in
Europe, partially offset by growth in emerging markets. Excluding the effect of exchange, Total Established Pharmaceutical Products sales increased 2.1 percent. U.S. Pediatric Nutritional sales
in 2012 reflect market share gains for    Similac    and unit growth for    PediaSure.    The increase in 2012 U.S.
Adult Nutritional sales reflects unit growth for the    Ensure    and    Glucerna    products. International
Pediatric and Adult Nutritionals sales increases over the three years were due primarily to volume growth in developing countries and were negatively impacted in 2012 by the effect of the relatively
stronger U.S. dollar.   

          The
increases in U.S. Proprietary product sales in 2011 and 2010 are primarily due to increased sales of    HUMIRA    and the acquisition of
Solvay Pharmaceuticals in February 2010, partially offset by decreased sales of    Depakote, Zemplar, and Kaletra   . The increases in Established
Pharmaceutical sales in 2011 and 2010 are primarily due to the acquisitions of Solvay Pharmaceuticals and Piramal and growth in emerging markets. U.S. Pediatric Nutritionals sales in 2011 and 2010
were affected by the voluntary recall of certain Similac-brand powder infant formulas in September 2010 and the subsequent recovery in market share in 2011. International Proprietary Pharmaceuticals,
International Adult Nutritionals and Immunochemistry sales were positively impacted by the effect of the relatively weaker U.S. dollar in 2011 and 2010. Abbott has periodically sold product rights to
non-strategic products and has recorded the related gains in net sales in accordance with Abbott's revenue recognition policies as discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements. Related net sales were approximately $58 million in 2010, while there were no significant sales in 2012 and 2011.   

          The
expiration of licenses and patent protection and generic competition can affect the future revenues and operating income of Abbott. There are currently no significant patent or
license expirations in the next three years that are expected to affect Abbott after the separation of AbbVie.   

    Operating Earnings     

          Gross profit margins were 62.1 percent of net sales in 2012, 60.0 percent in 2011 and 58.3 percent in 2010. The
increase in the gross profit margin in 2012 was impacted by improved gross margins across all reportable segments as a result of cost reduction initiatives, the impact of exchange and favorable
product mix. The increase in the gross profit margin in 2011 was due, in part, to improved margins in the established pharmaceutical, diagnostics and diabetes businesses and was partially offset by
the unfavorable effect of exchange on the profit margin ratio. The increase in the gross profit margin in 2010 was due, in part, to improved margins in the established pharmaceutical, vascular,
diabetes, diagnostics and nutritional businesses and the favorable effect of exchange on the gross profit margin ratio.   

          In
the U.S., states receive price rebates from manufacturers of infant formula under the federally subsidized Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children.
There are also rebate programs for pharmaceutical products in numerous countries. These rebate programs continue to have a negative effect on the gross profit margins of the Nutritional, Proprietary
Pharmaceutical and Established Pharmaceutical Products segments.   

          Research
and development expense was $4.322 billion in 2012, $4.129 billion in 2011 and $3.724 billion in 2010 and represented increases of 4.7 percent in
2012, 10.9 percent in 2011 and 35.7 percent in 2010. Excluding charges related to the Solvay restructurings announced in September 2010, research and development expense increased
6.2 percent in 2011 and 29.4 percent in 2010. The 2010 increase, exclusive of the effects of the restructuring charges, reflects the acquisitions of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business in
February 2010 and Facet Biotech in April 2010. The increases in 2012, 2011 and 2010 also reflect continued pipeline spending, including programs in biologics, hepatitis C and diagnostics. The majority
of research and development expenditures over the three years were   

  35  

concentrated
on pharmaceutical products. $2.9 billion of Abbott's 2012 research and development expenses related to Abbott's pharmaceutical products, of which $2.2 billion was directly
allocated to the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment. In 2012, research and development expenditures totaled $367 million for the Vascular Products segment, $382 million for the
Diagnostics Products segment, $275 million for the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment and $186 million for the Nutritional Products segment.   

          Selling,
general and administrative expenses decreased 5.5 percent in 2012 and increased 22.9 percent in 2011 and 23.4 percent in 2010. 2012 includes approximately
$405 million related to the separation of
AbbVie from Abbott and a $100 million litigation charge related to the government investigation related to    Depakote    while 2011 includes a
litigation charge of $1.5 billion related to the    Depakote    investigation. Excluding separation costs, litigation charges and Solvay-related
restructuring and integration costs, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 4.6 percent in 2012 and 6.7 percent in 2011. Excluding charges related to Solvay restructuring
and integration projects, selling, general and administrative expenses in 2010 increased 18.2 percent. This increase, exclusive of the effects of the restructuring and integration charges,
reflects the acquisitions of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business in 2010 and Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. in 2009 and higher provisions for litigation in 2010. The remaining increases in
selling, general and administrative expenses over the three year period were due primarily to increased selling and marketing support for new and existing products, including continued spending for     HUMIRA,    inflation, and in 2011, the impact of the pharmaceutical fee imposed by U.S. healthcare reform legislation.   

Restructurings     

          In 2012, Abbott management approved plans to streamline various commercial operations in order to reduce costs and improve efficiencies
in Abbott's core diagnostics, established pharmaceutical and nutritionals businesses. Abbott recorded employee related severance charges of approximately $167 million in 2012. Additional
charges of approximately $22 million were also recorded in 2012, primarily for asset impairments. Approximately $70 million is recorded in Cost of products sold and approximately
$119 million as Selling, general and administrative expense. As of December 31, 2012, no significant cash payments have been made relating to these actions.   

In
2011 and prior years, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical and vascular manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial
and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2011 and 2010, Abbott recorded charges of approximately $194 million and $56 million, respectively, reflecting the
impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $76 million in 2011 is classified as Cost of products sold,
$69 million as Research and development and $49 million as Selling, general and administrative. Approximately $56 million in 2010 is classified as Cost of products sold. The
following summarizes the activity for these restructurings:    (dollars in millions)   

36  

An
additional $110 million, $25 million and $13 million were recorded in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, relating to these restructurings,
primarily for accelerated depreciation.   

          In
2012 and 2010, Abbott management approved restructuring plans primarily related to the acquisition of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business. These plans streamline operations, improve
efficiencies and reduce costs in certain Solvay sites and functions as well as in certain Abbott and Solvay commercial organizations in various countries. In 2012, Abbott recorded a charge of
approximately $150 million for employee severance and contractual obligations, primarily related to the exit from a research and
development facility. Approximately $142 million is recorded as Research and development and $8 million as Selling, general and administrative. In 2010, Abbott recorded charges to Cost
of products sold, Research and development and Selling, general and administrative of approximately $99 million, $152 million and $272 million, respectively. The following
summarizes the activity for these restructurings:    (dollars in millions)   

An
additional $38 million, $102 million and $12 million were recorded in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, relating to these restructurings,
primarily for additional employee severance and accelerated depreciation.   

          In
2011 and 2008, Abbott management approved plans to streamline global manufacturing operations, reduce overall costs, and improve efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostic business. In
2011, a charge of $28 million was recorded in Cost of products sold. The following summarizes the activity for these restructurings:    (dollars in
millions)   

In
addition, charges of approximately $16 million, $42 million and $60 million were recorded in 2012, 2011 and 2010, primarily for accelerated
depreciation and product transfer costs.   

    Interest expense and Interest (income)     

          In 2012, interest expense increased primarily due to bridge facility fees related to the separation of AbbVie from Abbott. In 2011,
interest expense decreased due to lower debt levels. Interest income in 2012 and 2011 decreased as a result of lower rates. In 2010, interest expense increased due primarily to increased debt levels.
Interest income decreased in 2010 due to lower investment balances.   

  37  

Change in Accounting Principle and Other (income) expense, net     

          Prior to January 1, 2011, the accounts of foreign subsidiaries were consolidated based on a fiscal year ended November 30
due to the time needed to consolidate these subsidiaries. Effective January 1, 2011, the one month lag in the consolidation of the accounts of foreign subsidiaries was eliminated and the
year-end of foreign subsidiaries was changed to December 31. Abbott believes that the change in accounting principle related to the elimination of the one month reporting lag is
preferable because it results in more contemporaneous reporting of the results of foreign subsidiaries. In accordance with applicable accounting literature, a change in subsidiaries'
year-end is treated as a change in accounting principle and requires retrospective application. The cumulative effect of the change was an increase in retained earnings of
$289 million as of January 1, 2009 and a corresponding decrease in other long-term liabilities. The impact of the change was not material to the results of operations for the
previously reported annual and interim periods after January 1, 2009, and thus, those results have not been revised. A charge of $137 million was recorded to Other (income) expense, net
in 2011 to recognize the cumulative immaterial impacts to 2009 and 2010. Had the financial statements been revised, net sales, operating earnings and net earnings in 2010 would have decreased by
$21 million, $195 million and $175 million, respectively.   

          Other
(income) expense, net, for 2012 includes income of approximately $60 million from the resolution of a contractual agreement and a loss of approximately $62 million
for the impairment of certain equity securities. Other (income) expense, net, for 2011 includes $56 million of fair value adjustments and accretion in the contingent consideration related to
the acquisition of Solvay's pharmaceutical business. Other (income) expense, net, for 2012, 2011 and 2010 also includes ongoing contractual payments from Takeda associated with the conclusion of the
TAP joint venture.   

    Net Loss on Extinguishment of Debt     

          In the fourth quarter of 2012, Abbott extinguished $7.7 billion of long-term debt. Abbott incurred a cost of
$1.35 billion to extinguish this debt, net of gains from the unwinding of interest rate swaps related to the debt.   

    Taxes on Earnings     

          The income tax rates on earnings were 4.8 percent in 2012, 9.0 percent in 2011 and 19.0 percent in 2010. Taxes on
earnings in 2012 reflect the $493 million effect of the tax rate applied to Abbott's net debt extinguishment loss as well as the recognition of $408 million of tax benefits as a result
of the favorable resolution of various tax positions pertaining to a prior year, which also decreased the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $560 million. Taxes on
earnings in 2011 reflect the effect of the tax rate applied to a litigation reserve and the recognition of $580 million of tax benefits as a result of the favorable resolution of various tax
positions pertaining to prior years, which also decreased the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $1.3 billion. Exclusive of these discrete items, the effective rates are
lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent due primarily to the benefit of lower foreign tax rates and tax exemptions that reduced the tax rates by 24.9, 22.9, and
19.4 percentage points in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The tax rate reductions are primarily derived from operations in Puerto Rico, Switzerland, Ireland and Singapore where Abbott
benefits from a combination of favorable statutory tax rules, tax rulings, grants, and exemptions. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for a full reconciliation of the effective
tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate.   

          As
a result of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 signed into law in January 2013, Abbott expects to record a tax benefit of approximately $100 million in the first quarter
of 2013 for the retroactive extension of the research tax credit and the look-through rules of section 954(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code to the beginning of 2012. Excluding
this and any other discrete items, Abbott expects to apply an annual effective rate of approximately 21 percent.   

  38  

As
a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act which were signed into law in 2010, Abbott recorded a charge of
approximately $60 million in 2010 to reduce deferred tax assets associated with retiree health care liabilities related to the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy.   

          In
October 2010, Puerto Rico enacted legislation that assesses a tax beginning in 2011 on certain products manufactured in Puerto Rico. The tax is levied on gross intercompany purchases
from Puerto Rican entities and is included in inventory costs. In 2012 and 2011, cost of goods sold included $187 million and $111 million, respectively, related to this tax. The tax is
creditable for U.S. income tax purposes.   

    Research and Development Programs     

          Abbott currently has numerous pharmaceutical, medical and nutritional products in development.   

     Research and Development Process      

          In the Proprietary Pharmaceuticals segment, the research and development process generally begins with discovery research which focuses
on the identification of a molecule that has a desired effect against a given disease. If preclinical testing of an identified compound proves successful, the compound moves into clinical development
which generally includes the following phases:  

Phase I   involves the first human tests in a small number of healthy volunteers to assess
tolerability and potential dosing.   
           Phase II   tests the molecule's efficacy against the disease in a small group of patients.    
           Phase III   tests a molecule that demonstrates favorable results in the earlier phases in a
significantly larger patient population to further demonstrate efficacy and safety based on regulatory criteria.    

The
clinical trials from all of the development phases provide the data required to prepare and submit a New Drug Application (NDA), a Biological License Application (BLA) or other
submission for regulatory approval to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or similar government agencies outside the U.S. The specific requirements (e.g., scope of clinical trials) for
obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions.   

          The
research and development process from discovery through a new drug launch typically takes 8 - 12 years and can be even longer. There is a significant
amount of uncertainty inherent in the research and development of new pharmaceutical products and there is no guarantee when, or if, a molecule will receive the regulatory approval required to launch
a new drug or indication.   

          In
addition to the development of new products and new formulations, proprietary pharmaceutical research and development projects also may include Phase IV trials, sometimes
called post-marketing studies. For such projects, clinical trials are designed and conducted to collect additional data regarding, among other parameters, the benefits and risks of an
approved drug.   

          In
the Established Pharmaceuticals segment, the development process focuses on the geographic expansion and continuous improvement of the segment's existing products to provide benefits
to patients and customers. As Established Pharmaceuticals does not actively pursue primary research, development usually begins with work on existing products or after the acquisition of an advanced
stage licensing opportunity.   

          Depending
upon the product, the phases of development may include:  

Drug product development    
 
  39  

Phase I bioequivalence studies to compare a future Established Pharmaceutical's brand with an already marketed
compound with the same active pharmaceutical ingredient (API).   
           Phase II studies to test the efficacy of benefits in a small group of patients.    
           Phase III studies to broaden the testing to a wider population that reflects the actual medical use.    
           Phase IV and other post-marketing studies to obtain new clinical use data on existing products within
approved indications.    

The
specific requirements (e.g. scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions. The process may range from one
year for a bioequivalence study project to 6 or more years for complex formulations, new indications, or geographic expansion in specific countries such as China.   

          In
the Diagnostics segment, the phases of the research and development process include:  

Discovery which focuses on identification of a product that will address a specific therapeutic area, platform, or unmet
clinical need,   
           Concept/Feasibility during which the materials and manufacturing processes are evaluated, testing may include product
characterization and analysis is performed to confirm clinical utility, and   
           Development during which extensive testing is performed to demonstrate that the product meets specified design
requirements and that the design specifications conform to user needs and intended uses.    

As
with pharmaceutical products, the regulatory requirements for diagnostic products vary across different countries and geographic regions. In the U.S., the FDA classifies diagnostic
products into classes (I, II, or III) and the classification determines the regulatory process for approval. While the Diagnostics segment has products in all three classes, the vast
majority of its products are categorized as Class I or Class II. Submission of a separate regulatory filing is not required for Class I products. Class II devices typically
require pre-market notification to the FDA through a regulatory filing known as a 510(k) submission. Most Class III products are subject to the FDA's Pre-Marketing
Approval (PMA) requirements. Other Class III products, such as those used to screen blood, require the submission and approval of a BLA.   

In
the EU, diagnostic products are also categorized into different categories and the regulatory process, which is governed by the European In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Device Directive,
depends upon the category. Certain product categories require review and approval by an independent company, known as a Notified Body, before the manufacturer can affix a CE mark to the product to
show compliance with the Directive. Other products only require a self-certification process.   

          In
the Vascular segment, the research and development process begins with research on a specific technology that is evaluated for feasibility and commercial viability. If the research
program passes that hurdle, it moves forward into development. The development process includes evaluation and selection of a product design, completion of clinical trials to test the product's safety
and efficacy, and validation of the manufacturing process to demonstrate its repeatability and ability to consistently meet pre-determined specifications.   

          Similar
to the diagnostic products discussed above, in the U.S., vascular products are classified as Class I, II, or III. Most of Abbott's vascular products are classified as
Class II devices that follow the 510(k) regulatory process or Class III devices that are subject to the PMA process.   

          In
the EU, vascular products are also categorized into different classes and the regulatory process, which is governed by the European Medical Device Directive, varies by class. Each
product must bear a CE mark to show compliance with the Directive. Some products require submission of a design dossier to   

  40  

the
appropriate regulatory authority for review and approval prior to CE marking of the device. For other products, the company is required to prepare a technical file which includes testing results
and clinical evaluations but can self-certify its ability to apply the CE mark to the product. Outside the U.S. and the EU, the regulatory requirements vary across different countries and
regions.   

          After
approval and commercial launch of some vascular products, post-market trials may be conducted either due to a conditional requirement of the regulatory market approval
or with the objective of proving product superiority.   

          In
the Nutritional segment, the research and development process generally focuses on identifying and developing ingredients and products that address the nutritional needs of particular
populations (e.g., infants, athletes) or patients (e.g., people with diabetes). Depending upon the country and/or region, if claims regarding a product's efficacy will be made, clinical
studies typically must be conducted. Most other product development, such as a product form change from liquid to powder, generally does not necessitate clinical studies.   

In
the U.S., the FDA requires that it be notified of proposed new formulations and formulation or packaging changes related to infant formula products. Prior to the launch of an infant
formula or product packaging change, the company is required to obtain the FDA's confirmation that it has no
objections to the proposed product or packaging. For other nutrition products, notification or pre-approval from the FDA is not required unless the product includes a new food additive. In
some countries, regulatory approval may be required for certain nutritional products, including infant formula and medical nutritional products.   

Areas of Focus      

          In 2013 and beyond, Abbott's significant areas of therapeutic focus will include the following:   

  Established
Pharmaceuticals   Abbott is actively working on plans for about 20 - 30 key brands. Depending on the product, the development activities focus
on new data, markets, formulations, combinations, or indications. Abbott focuses on building country-specific portfolios made up of global and local pharmaceutical brands that best meet each local
market's needs. Over the next several years, Established Pharmaceuticals will work to expand the market for many of its products through registrations across multiple geographies, including key
emerging markets.   

  Vascular  
Ongoing projects in the pipeline include:  

Xience Xpedition   , our next-generation drug-eluting
stent (DES) with enhanced deliverability and an expanded size matrix. It utilizes the    Xience PRIME    stent, everolimus and biocompatible coating
technology but incorporates new catheter technology for improved deliverability.    Xience Xpedition    received U.S. regulatory approval in December 2012 and
is also available in Europe and parts of Asia and Latin America. Abbott expects to launch the product in additional markets in 2013.   
            Absorb,    the world's first drug eluting bioresorbable vascular scaffold
(BVS) device for the treatment of coronary artery disease that is gradually resorbed into the vessel wall. In January 2013 Abbott initiated the ABSORB III clinical trial which is designed to enroll
approximately 2,250 patients of which the majority will be in the U.S. The data from this trial will be used to support the U.S. regulatory filing of Absorb. In 2011 Abbott released
five-year data from its ABSORB clinical trial, which showed efficacy and safety results consistent with the four-year data. In 2011 after receiving CE Mark approval for Absorb,
Abbott initiated a randomized, controlled clinical trial to further study the device in an expanded population in Europe. In 2010, Abbott initiated the ABSORB EXTEND clinical trial which will enroll
up to 1,000 patients with more complex coronary artery disease.    
 
  41  

MitraClip    device for the treatment of mitral
regurgitation   Abbott's    MitraClip    system which is on the market in Europe and in parts of Asia and Latin America is currently under
review for approval by the FDA. An amended filing to the FDA was submitted in December 2011. A FDA panel is expected to review the filing in the first half of 2013.    
           Coronary and endovascular core product projects, including new coronary and endovascular guide wires. The     Absolute Pro    and
   Omnilink Elite    stent systems, both for the treatment of iliac artery disease, a form of
peripheral artery disease that affects the lower extremities, were launched in the U.S. in 2012.    

Medical
Optics   Abbott is developing a number of new products for patients undergoing cataract surgery, which are designed to improve physician efficiency and patient outcomes.
Abbott has developed advanced intraocular lenses (IOLs) that address astigmatism as well as presbyopia. The Tecnis brand monofocal Toric IOL, which is sold in Europe, is currently undergoing U.S.
regulatory review. A multifocal version of the Toric IOL was launched in a number of international markets in 2012. A preloaded IOL insertion system that is designed to improve surgeon efficiency is
also currently under regulatory review in the U.S.; the product was launched in Europe in 2012. Abbott is continuing the development activities required to obtain U.S. approval for an enhanced version
of the Synchrony IOL which is designed to mimic the eye's natural ability to change focus and deliver improved vision at all distances; this product was launched in Europe in late 2012. Abbott has
also developed a new diagnostic instrument and laser treatment planning software which is designed to improve visual outcomes. After the receipt of CE Mark approval in November 2011, this instrument
and software were launched in Europe in 2012. A PMA filing for U.S. regulatory approval of this product was submitted in 2012.   

  Molecular
Diagnostics   Various new molecular in vitro diagnostic (IVD) products, including oncology and infectious disease assays and a next generation instrument system are in various
stages of development and commercialization. Abbott's companion diagnostic test for an ALK gene rearrangement test for non-small-cell lung cancer has been approved in more than
40 countries around the world. In 2012, companion diagnostic efforts were expanded to include collaborative efforts with multiple major pharmaceutical companies. In the U.S., an assay to genotype
HCV-infected patients to aid in the choice of an appropriate therapy was submitted for regulatory approval. Additional assays for infectious diseases including MTb and MTb drug resistance
are in development.   

  Core
Laboratory Diagnostics   Abbott is working on the development of assays in various areas including infectious disease, cardiac care, fertility and metabolics, and on
next-generation blood screening, hematology, and immunochemistry instrument systems. Abbott is also focusing on near-term launches of automation solutions, such as its
next-generation track system, ACCELERATOR a3600 to increase efficiency in laboratories.   

  Diabetes
Care   In the first quarter of 2012, Abbott obtained U.S. regulatory approval for its    FreeStyle InsuLinx    blood glucose
monitoring system that includes a touch-screen interface and other features designed to support the insulin-using patient. After receiving CE Mark for this system in May 2011 and Health Canada
approval in October 2011, Abbott is continuing to provide R D support as the product is launched in additional markets. Development is also continuing on an updated hospital blood glucose monitoring
system for which a filing for approval is projected to be submitted in the U.S. during the first half of 2013. Abbott is also developing a next-generation monitoring system under the
Precision product platform and for which Abbott anticipates submitting filings for approval in various markets in the second half of 2013.   

  Nutrition  
Abbott is focusing its research and development spend on six benefit platforms that span the pediatric, adult and performance nutrition areas: immunity, cognition, lean
body mass, inflammation, metabolism and tolerance. Numerous new products that build on advances in these benefit platforms are currently under development and are expected to be launched over the
coming years.   

  42  

Given
the diversity of Abbott's business, its intention to remain a broad-based healthcare company and the numerous sources for potential future growth, no individual project is expected
to be material to cash flows or results of operations over the next five years. Factors considered included research and development expenses projected to be incurred for the project over the next
year relative to Abbott's total research and development expenses as well as qualitative factors, such as marketplace perceptions and impact of a new product on Abbott's overall market position. There
were no delays in Abbott's 2012 research and development activities that are expected to have a material impact on operations.   

          While
the aggregate cost to complete the numerous projects currently in development is expected to be material, the total cost to complete will depend upon Abbott's ability to
successfully complete each project, the rate at which each project advances, and the ultimate timing for completion. Given the potential for significant delays and the high rate of failure inherent in
the research and development of new pharmaceutical and medical device products and technologies, it is not possible to accurately estimate the total cost to complete all projects currently in
development. After the separation of AbbVie, Abbott plans to manage its portfolio of projects to achieve research and development spend
equal to approximately 6 percent to 7 percent of sales each year. Abbott does not regularly accumulate or make management decisions based on the total expenses incurred for a particular
development phase in a given period.   

    Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions     

          On September 8, 2010, Abbott acquired Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business, a leader in the Indian branded
generics market, for $2.2 billion, in cash, plus additional payments of $400 million annually in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. Abbott recorded a $1.6 billion liability for the
present value of the additional payments at the acquisition date. The acquisition was financed with cash. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in the recording of
$2.7 billion of deductible acquired intangible assets and $1.0 billion of deductible goodwill. Acquired intangible assets consist primarily of trade names, customer relationships and
associated rights and are amortized over an average of 19 years.   

          In
February 2010, Abbott acquired Solvay's pharmaceuticals business (Solvay Pharmaceuticals) for approximately $6.1 billion, in cash, plus additional payments of up to EUR
100 million per year if certain sales milestones are met in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Contingent consideration of approximately $290 million was recorded. The acquisition of Solvay
Pharmaceuticals provided Abbott with a large and complementary portfolio of pharmaceutical products and expands Abbott's presence in key global emerging markets. Abbott acquired control of this
business on February 15, 2010 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. Net sales for the acquired operations for
2010 were approximately $3.1 billion. Pretax loss of the acquired operations, including acquisition, integration and restructuring expenses, for 2010 was approximately $395 million. The
acquisition was funded with cash and short-term investments. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in the recording of $2.2 billion of
non-deductible goodwill, $4.1 billion of non-deductible intangible assets, $500 million of non-deductible acquired in-process research and
development assets, net tangible assets of $700 million and deferred income taxes of $1.1 billion. Acquired intangible assets consist primarily of product rights for currently marketed
products and are amortized over 2 to 14 years (average of 11 years). Acquired in-process research and development projects are accounted for as indefinite lived intangible
assets until regulatory approval or discontinuation. The net tangible assets acquired consist primarily of trade accounts receivable of approximately $675 million, inventory of approximately
$390 million, property and equipment of approximately $725 million, net of assumed liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other liabilities.   

          Had
the acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals taken place on January 1, 2010, unaudited pro forma net sales, net earnings and diluted earnings per share for 2010 would have been
$35.8 billion, $4.6 billion and $2.96, respectively. The pro forma information includes adjustments for amortization of intangible assets and fair value adjustments to
acquisition-date inventory as well as acquisition, integration and restructuring expenses. The pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative
of the results of operations as they would have been had the transaction been effected on the assumed date.   

  43  

In
March 2010, Abbott acquired STARLIMS Technologies for approximately $100 million, in cash, net of cash held by STARLIMS, providing Abbott with leading products and expertise to
build its position in laboratory informatics. A substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been allocated to goodwill and amortizable intangible assets. In April 2010, Abbott
acquired the outstanding shares of Facet Biotech Corporation for approximately $430 million, in cash, net of cash held by Facet. The acquisition enhanced Abbott's early- and
mid-stage pharmaceutical pipeline, including a biologic for multiple sclerosis and compounds that complement Abbott's oncology program. A substantial portion of the fair value of the
acquisition was allocated to acquired in-process research and development that is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation.   

          Except
for the acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals, had the above acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have
been significantly different from reported amounts.   

          Abbott's
Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment has entered into various collaboration research and development agreements. In 2012, Abbott acquired AP214, a drug under development
for the prevention of acute kidney injury associated with major cardiac surgery in patients at increased risk, and as a result of this transaction, Abbott recorded a charge to acquired
in-process and collaborations research and development of $110 million. In addition, in 2012, Abbott entered into a global collaboration to develop and commercialize an oral,
next-generation JAK1 inhibitor in Phase II development with the potential to treat multiple autoimmune diseases, and as a result of this transaction Abbott recorded a charge to
acquired in-process and collaborations research and development of $150 million. Additional payments of approximately
$1.2 billion could be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under this agreement. Under another collaboration, Abbott was granted the rights
in 2012 to utilize up to three antibody-drug conjugate compounds and Abbott recorded a charge to acquired in-process and collaborations research and development of
$28 million. Additional payments of approximately $220 million for each licensed compound could be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial
milestones under this agreement. In connection with the acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals, the achievement of a certain sales milestone resulted in a payment of approximately $134 million
in the first quarter of 2012 for which a liability was previously established.   

          During
2010 and 2011, Abbott entered into a series of transactions with Reata Pharmaceuticals which included (1) a collaboration agreement for the joint development and
commercialization of second generation oral antioxidant inflammation modulators resulting in a charge to acquired in-process and collaborations research and development of
$400 million in 2011, (2) an agreement to acquire licensing rights outside the U.S., excluding certain Asian markets, to bardoxolone methyl, a product in development for the treatment of
chronic kidney disease resulting in a charge to acquired in-process and collaborations research and development of $238 million in 2010 and (3) the acquisition of equity
interests in Reata of $62 million each in 2011 and 2010. In 2011, certain milestones were achieved in the development for the treatment of chronic kidney disease and charges to acquired
in-process and collaborations research and development of $188 million were recorded. In the first quarter of 2012, $50 million of research and development expense was
recorded related to the achievement of a clinical development milestone under the license agreement. The license agreement requires additional payments of up to $150 million if certain
development and regulatory milestones associated with the chronic kidney disease compound are achieved.   

          On
October 17, 2012 Reata informed Abbott that it is discontinuing the Phase III clinical study for bardoxolone methyl for chronic kidney disease. Reata and Abbott will
closely examine the data from this study to determine whether there is an appropriate path forward for the development of bardoxolone methyl in chronic kidney disease or other indications. In the
fourth quarter of 2012, Abbott recorded a charge of approximately $50 million for the impairment of the equity investment in Reata.   

  44  

In
2011, Abbott entered into an agreement with Biotest AG to develop and commercialize a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis resulting in a charge to acquired
in-process and collaborations research and development of $85 million. Additional payments totaling up to $395 million based on projected regulatory approval timelines could
be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under this agreement. In 2010, Abbott entered into an agreement with Neurocrine Biosciences to develop and
commercialize a product for the treatment of endometriosis resulting in a charge to acquired in-process and collaborations research and development of $75 million. Additional
payments of approximately $500 million could be required
for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under this agreement.   

    Goodwill     

          At December 31, 2012, goodwill recorded as a result of business combinations totaled $15.8 billion. Goodwill is reviewed
for impairment annually or when an event that could result in an impairment occurs. The results of the last impairment test indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit was substantially in
excess of its carrying value except for the Medical Optics unit. While the fair value of the Medical Optics business exceeds its carrying value, extended economic pressure on government-reimbursed
cataract procedures in Europe and on the global LASIK surgery business as well as longer regulatory approval timelines for products currently under development could result in a valuation in the
future where the fair value of the Medical Optics unit has declined below its carrying value, thereby triggering the requirement to estimate the implied fair value of the goodwill and measure for
impairment.   

    Financial Condition     

    Cash Flow     

          Net cash from operating activities amounted to $9.3 billion, $9.0 billion and $8.7 billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Trade accounts payable and other liabilities in Net cash from operating activities in 2012 includes the payment of approximately $1.5 billion related to a litigation accrual
recorded in 2011. This was partially offset by increases in other liabilities, primarily restructuring reserves. Income taxes payable in 2012 and 2011 includes $408 million and
$580 million, respectively, of tax benefits related to the favorable resolution of various tax positions pertaining to prior years. While substantially all cash and cash equivalents at
December 31, 2012 that will be retained by Abbott after the separation and all cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2011 and 2010 is considered reinvested indefinitely in foreign
subsidiaries, Abbott does not expect such reinvestment to affect its liquidity and capital resources. If these funds were needed for operations in the U.S., Abbott would be required to accrue and pay
U.S. income taxes to repatriate these funds. Abbott believes that it has sufficient sources of liquidity to support its assumption that the disclosed amount of undistributed earnings at
December 31, 2012 can be considered to be reinvested indefinitely. Abbott funded $379 million in 2012, $394 million in 2011 and $525 million in 2010 to defined pension
plans. Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic pension plan of $170 million in 2013; the decrease
primarily reflects the separation of AbbVie and the transfer of certain plan assets and liabilities to AbbVie. Abbott expects annual cash flow from operating activities to continue to exceed Abbott's
capital expenditures and cash dividends.   

          For
2010, the reductions in cash and cash equivalents due to the effect of exchange rate changes was primarily driven by the impact of changes in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to
the euro on non-dollar denominated cash and cash equivalents. While future fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies could have a substantial effect on the
dollar value of Abbott's cash and cash equivalents, such fluctuations are not expected to materially impact Abbott's liquidity.   

  45  

Debt and Capital     

          At December 31, 2012, Abbott's long-term debt rating was A+ by Standard   Poor's Corporation and A1 by
Moody's Investors Service. In 2012, Abbott replaced unused lines of credit of $3.0 billion and $3.7 billion that were to expire in October 2012 and in 2013, respectively, with two
five-year credit facilities totaling $7.0 billion that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements. One of the credit facilities totaling $2.0 billion will support AbbVie
commercial paper borrowings after separation and expired for Abbott at the separation of AbbVie from Abbott on January 1, 2013.   

          In
2012, Abbott redeemed $7.7 billion of long-term notes in preparation for the separation of AbbVie from Abbott and repaid $1 billion of long-term
notes that were due in 2012. In addition, AbbVie Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Abbott, issued $14.7 billion of long-term notes that were guaranteed by Abbott until
AbbVie's separation from Abbott on January 1, 2013. In 2011, Abbott repaid $2.0 billion of long-term notes using primarily short-term borrowings. Under a
registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in February 2009, Abbott issued $3.0 billion of long-term debt in the second quarter of 2010 with maturity
dates in 2015, 2020 and 2040 and interest rates of 2.7 percent, 4.125 percent and 5.3 percent, respectively. The debt due in 2015 was extinguished in 2012. Proceeds from this debt
were used to pay down short-term borrowings.   

          In
October 2008, the board of directors authorized the purchase of up to $5 billion of Abbott's common shares from time to time. Under this authorization, 37.0 million and
14.8 million shares were purchased
in 2012 and 2010 at a cost of approximately $2.2 billion and $800 million, respectively. No shares were purchased under this authorization in 2011. Abbott plans to purchase shares from
time to time in 2013.   

          The
judgment entered in 2009 by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Abbott in its litigation with New York University and Centocor, Inc. required
Abbott to secure the judgment in the event that its appeal to the Federal Circuit court was unsuccessful in overturning the district court's decision. In the first quarter of 2010, Abbott deposited
$1.87 billion with an escrow agent and considered these assets to be restricted. On February 23, 2011, the Federal Circuit reversed the district court's final judgment and found
Centocor's patent invalid. On April 25, 2011, Centocor petitioned the Federal Circuit to rehear and reconsider the decision. In June 2011 the Federal Circuit denied Centocor's petition and the
restrictions on the funds were lifted.   

    Working Capital     

          Working capital was $18.0 billion at December 31, 2012, $8.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and
$5.1 billion at December 31, 2010. The increase in working capital in 2012 was due primarily to higher cash generated from operating activities and higher cash and investments as a
result of the net issuance of long-term debt in connection with the separation of AbbVie from Abbott. The increase in working capital in 2011 was due primarily to higher cash generated
from operating activities and lower debt levels. The decrease in working capital in 2010 was due primarily to cash and investments used to acquire Solvay's pharmaceuticals business and Piramal
Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business.   

          Substantially
all of Abbott's trade receivables in Italy, Spain, Portugal, and Greece are with governmental health systems. Given the economic conditions and sovereign debt issues in
these countries, the time it takes to collect outstanding receivables increased in 2011. In 2012, collection times improved   

  46  

relative
to 2011 with the exception of Greece. Outstanding net governmental receivables in these countries at December 31, 2012 were: (   dollars in
millions   )   

With
the exception of Greece, Abbott historically has collected almost all of the outstanding receivables in these countries. Abbott continues to monitor the credit
worthiness of customers located in these and other geographic areas and establishes an allowance against a trade receivable when it is probable that the balance will not be collected. In addition to
closely monitoring economic conditions and budgetary and other fiscal developments in these countries, Abbott regularly communicates with its customers regarding the status of receivable balances,
including their payment plans and obtains positive confirmation of the validity of the receivables. Abbott also monitors the potential for and periodically has utilized factoring arrangements to
mitigate credit risk although the receivables included in such arrangements have historically not been a material amount of total outstanding receivables. If government funding were to become
unavailable in these countries or if significant adverse changes in their reimbursement practices were to occur, Abbott may not be able to collect the entire balance.   

    Capital Expenditures     

          Capital expenditures of $1.8 billion in 2012, $1.5 billion in 2011 and $1.0 billion in 2010 were principally for
upgrading and expanding manufacturing, research and development, and administrative support facilities in all segments, investments in information technology, and laboratory instruments placed with
customers.   

    Contractual Obligations     

          The table below summarizes Abbott's estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2012. The amounts do not reflect the
separation of AbbVie from Abbott on January 1, 2013. After the separation of AbbVie from Abbott on January 1, 2013, principal payments required on long-term debt outstanding
and retained by Abbott are $309 million in 2013 and $3.3 billion in 2019 and thereafter. Payments on long-term debt to be made by AbbVie, including interest, total
approximately $19.6 billion.   

(a)    Purchase
commitments are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital expenditure requirements.
      (b)    Unrecognized
tax benefits totaling $2.0 billion are excluded from the table above as Abbott is unable to reasonably estimate the period of cash
settlement with the respective taxing authorities on such items.    

47  

Contingent Obligations     

          Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other
companies which has resulted in Abbott becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other
parties, Abbott is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these
agreements is remote. In addition, Abbott periodically acquires a business or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on
the occurrence of certain events.   

    Legislative Issues     

          In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively referred to
herein as "health care reform legislation") were signed into law in the U.S. Health care reform legislation included an increase in the basic Medicaid rebate rate from 15.1 percent to
23.1 percent and extended the rebate to drugs provided through Medicaid managed care organizations.   

          Beginning
in 2013, health care reform legislation will eliminate the federal income tax deduction for prescription drug expenses of retirees for which Abbott receives reimbursement under
the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy program. As a result, Abbott recorded a charge of approximately $60 million in the first quarter 2010 to reduce deferred tax assets associated
with retiree health care liabilities.   

          In
2011, Abbott began recording the annual fee imposed by health care reform legislation on companies that sell branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. The amount of
the annual fee is based on the ratio of certain of Abbott's sales as compared to the total such sales of all covered entities multiplied by a fixed dollar amount specified in the legislation by year.
In 2011, additional rebates were incurred related to the Medicare Part D coverage gap "donut hole." Beginning in 2013, Abbott will record the 2.3 percent excise tax imposed by health
care reform legislation on the sale of certain medical devices in the U.S.   

Abbott's
primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulations throughout the world. Abbott expects debate to continue over the availability, method of
delivery, and payment for health care products and services. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be adversely affected by these
factors in the future. A more complete discussion of these factors is contained in Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995   A Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements     

Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Abbott cautions investors that any
forward-looking statements or projections made by Abbott, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those
projected. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual Report on
Form 10-K.   

  48  

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK            

Financial Instruments and Risk Management            

    Market Price Sensitive Investments     

          Abbott holds available-for-sale equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions. The market value of
these investments was approximately $76 million and $93 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary declines
in market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in value occurs. A hypothetical 20 percent decrease in the share prices of these investments would
decrease their fair value at December 31, 2012 by approximately $15 million. (A 20 percent decrease is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in share
prices.)   

    Non-Publicly Traded Equity Securities     

          Abbott holds equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions that are not traded on public stock exchanges. The carrying value
of these investments was approximately $137 million and $224 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. No individual investment is recorded at a value in excess of
$30 million. Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in estimated value
occurs.   

    Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments     

          At December 31, 2012 and 2011, Abbott had interest rate hedge contracts totaling $9.5 billion and $6.8 billion,
respectively, to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of debt. The effect of these hedges is to change the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. Abbott does not use derivative financial
instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to manage its exposure to changes in interest rates for its investment securities. At December 31, 2012, Abbott had $1.3 billion of domestic
commercial paper outstanding with an average annual interest rate of 0.32% with an average remaining life of 17 days. The fair value of long-term debt at December 31, 2012
and 2011 amounted to $19.6 billion and $15.1 billion, respectively (average interest rates of 2.9%) with maturities through 2042. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the fair value of
current and long-term investment securities amounted to approximately $4.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively. A hypothetical 100-basis point change in the
interest rates would not have a material effect on cash flows, income or market values. (A 100-basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in
rates.)   

    Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments     

          Certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign
exchange rates for anticipated intercompany purchases by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability
of the cash flows due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and are marked-to-market with the resulting gains or losses reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss). Gains or losses will be included in Cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally within the next twelve months. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, Abbott held
$1.6 billion of such contracts, which all mature in the following calendar year.   

Abbott
enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated intercompany loans and trade payables and third-party trade payables
and receivables. The contracts are marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency
exposure being managed. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, Abbott held $18.2 billion and $15.7 billion, respectively, of such contracts, which mature in the next twelve months.   

  49  

Abbott
has designated foreign denominated short-term debt of approximately $615 million and approximately $680 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011,
respectively, as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign subsidiary. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of this debt due to changes in exchange rates are recorded in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.   

          The
following table reflects the total foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2012 and 2011:    (dollars in
millions)   

50  

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA            

Page    

Consolidated Statement of Earnings   

52   

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income   

53   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   

54   

Consolidated Balance Sheet   

55   

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment   

57   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

58   

Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting   

87   

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

88   

51  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Earnings   (dollars and shares in thousands except per share data)            

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  52  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income   (dollars in thousands)            

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  53  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   (dollars in thousands)            

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  54  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Balance Sheet   (dollars in thousands)            

55  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Consolidated Balance Sheet 
(dollars in thousands)     

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  56  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment   (dollars in thousands except per share data)            

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  57  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            

Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

NATURE OF BUSINESS   Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products.   

          In
October 2011, Abbott announced a plan to separate into two publicly traded companies, one in diversified medical products and the other in research-based pharmaceuticals. To
accomplish the separation, Abbott created a new company, AbbVie Inc. for its research-based pharmaceuticals business which consists primarily of Abbott's Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products
segment. On January 1, 2013, Abbott distributed all of the outstanding shares of AbbVie Inc. to Abbott's shareholders. As a result of the distribution, AbbVie is now an independent
company trading under the symbol "ABBV". Beginning in the first quarter of 2013, the historical results of the research-based pharmaceuticals business will be reflected in Abbott's consolidated
financial statements as discontinued operations.   

          CONCENTRATION
OF RISK AND GUARANTEES   Due to the nature of its operations, Abbott is not subject to significant concentration risks relating to customers, products or
geographic locations, except that three U.S. wholesalers accounted for 23 percent of trade receivables as of December 31, 2012 and 2010 and 22 percent of trade receivables as of
December 31, 2011. In addition, governmental accounts in Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal accounted for 16 percent, 23 percent, and 21 percent of total net trade
receivables as of December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Product warranties are not significant.   

          Abbott
has no material exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements; no special purpose entities; nor activities that include non-exchange-traded contracts
accounted for at fair value. Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other companies which has resulted in Abbott
becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other parties, Abbott is unable to develop an
estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. Abbott
periodically acquires a business or
product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain events.   

          BASIS
OF CONSOLIDATION AND CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE   Prior to January 1, 2011, the accounts of foreign subsidiaries were consolidated based on a fiscal
year ended November 30 due to the time needed to consolidate these subsidiaries. Effective January 1, 2011, the one month lag in the consolidation of the accounts of foreign subsidiaries
was eliminated and the year-end of foreign subsidiaries was changed to December 31. Abbott believes that the change in accounting principle related to the elimination of the one
month reporting lag is preferable because it results in more contemporaneous reporting of the results of foreign subsidiaries. In accordance with applicable accounting literature, a change in
subsidiaries' year-end is treated as a change in accounting principle and requires retrospective application. The cumulative effect of the change was an increase in retained earnings of
$289 million as of January 1, 2009 and a corresponding decrease in other long-term liabilities. The impact of the change was not material to the results of operations for the
previously reported annual and interim periods after January 1, 2009, and thus, those results have not been revised. A charge of $137 million was recorded to Other (income) expense, net
in 2011 to recognize the cumulative immaterial impacts to 2009 and 2010. Had the financial statements been revised, net sales, operating earnings and net earnings in 2010 would have decreased by
$21 million, $195 million and $175 million, respectively.   

          USE
OF ESTIMATES   The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and necessarily include
amounts based on estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates   

  58  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  include
amounts for sales rebates, income taxes, pension and other post-employment benefits, valuation of intangible assets, litigation, derivative financial instruments, and inventory and
accounts receivable exposures.   

          REVENUE
RECOGNITION   Revenue from product sales is recognized upon passage of title and risk of loss to customers. Provisions for discounts, rebates and sales
incentives to customers, and returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the related sales are recorded. Sales incentives to customers are not material. Historical data is readily
available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in gross sales. Revenue from the launch of a new product, from an improved version of an existing product, or for
shipments in excess of a customer's normal requirements are recorded when the conditions noted above are met. In those situations, management records a returns reserve for such revenue, if necessary.
In certain of Abbott's businesses, primarily within diagnostics and medical optics, Abbott participates in selling arrangements that include multiple deliverables (e.g., instruments, reagents,
procedures, and service agreements). Under these arrangements, Abbott recognizes revenue upon delivery of the product or performance of the service
and allocates the revenue based on the relative selling price of each deliverable, which is based primarily on vendor specific objective evidence. Sales of product rights for marketable products are
recorded as revenue upon disposition of the rights. Revenue from license of product rights, or for performance of research or selling activities, is recorded over the periods earned.   

          INCOME
TAXES   Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the
financial statements at the enacted statutory rate to be in effect when the taxes are paid. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries which are intended to be remitted
to the parent company. Deferred income taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries as working capital and plant and equipment. Interest and
penalties on income tax obligations are included in taxes on income.   

          EARNINGS
PER SHARE   Unvested restricted stock that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends are treated as participating securities and are included in
the computation of earnings per share under the two-class method. Under the two-class method, net earnings are allocated between common shares and participating securities. Net
earnings allocated to common shares in 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $5.917 billion, $4.714 billion and $4.613 billion, respectively.   

          PENSION
AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS   Abbott accrues for the actuarially determined cost of pension and post-employment benefits over the
service attribution periods of the employees. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rates and the expected
return on plan assets. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual return are amortized over a five-year period. Actuarial losses and gains
are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method.   

          FAIR
VALUE MEASUREMENTS   For assets and liabilities that are measured using quoted prices in active markets, total fair value is the published market price per unit
multiplied by the number of units held without consideration of transaction costs. Assets and liabilities that are measured using significant other observable inputs are valued by reference to similar
assets or liabilities, adjusted for contract restrictions and other terms specific to that asset or liability. For these items, a significant portion of fair value is derived by reference to quoted
prices of similar assets or liabilities in active markets. For all remaining assets and liabilities, fair value is derived using a fair value model, such as a discounted cash flow   

  59  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  model
or Black-Scholes model. Purchased intangible assets are recorded at fair value. The fair value of significant purchased intangible assets is based on independent appraisals. Abbott uses a
discounted cash flow model to value intangible assets. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, terminal
values and market participants. Intangible assets, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least on a quarterly and annual basis, respectively.   

          SHARE-BASED
COMPENSATION   The value of stock options and restricted stock awards and units are amortized over their service period, which could be shorter than the
vesting period if an employee is retirement eligible, with a charge to compensation expense.   

          LITIGATION  
Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with FASB ASC No. 450, "Contingencies." Under ASC No. 450, loss contingency provisions
are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded. Legal fees are recorded as incurred.   

          CASH,
CASH EQUIVALENTS AND INVESTMENTS   Cash equivalents consist of bank time deposits and U.S. treasury bills with original maturities of three months or less.
Investments in marketable equity securities and certain investments in debt securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized
holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Investments in equity securities that are not traded on public stock exchanges are recorded at cost.
Investments in other debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity, as management has both the intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity, and are reported at
cost, net of any unamortized premium or discount. Income relating to these securities is reported as interest income.   

          Abbott
reviews the carrying value of investments each quarter to determine whether an other than temporary decline in market value exists. Abbott considers factors affecting the
investee, factors affecting the industry the investee operates in and general equity market trends. Abbott considers the length of time an investment's market value has been below carrying value and
the near-term prospects for recovery to carrying value. When Abbott determines that an other than temporary decline has occurred, the investment is written down with a charge to Other
(income) expense, net.   

          TRADE
RECEIVABLE VALUATIONS   Accounts receivable are stated at their net realizable value. The allowance against gross trade receivables reflects the best estimate of
probable losses inherent in the receivables portfolio determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled accounts and other currently available information.
Accounts receivable
are charged off after all reasonable means to collect the full amount (including litigation, where appropriate) have been exhausted.   

          INVENTORIES  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs.   

  60  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

PROPERTY
AND EQUIPMENT   Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The following
table shows estimated useful lives of property and equipment:   

PRODUCT
LIABILITY   Abbott accrues for product liability claims, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the
liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. The liabilities are adjusted quarterly as additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries for
product liability claims are recorded as assets, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized. Product liability losses are self-insured.   

RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS   Internal research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the
contracted work is performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the
milestone results are achieved.   

          ACQUIRED
IN-PROCESS AND COLLABORATIONS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (IPR D)   The initial costs of rights to IPR D projects obtained in an asset acquisition
are expensed as IPR D unless the project has an alternative future use. These costs include initial payments incurred prior to regulatory approval in connection with research and development
collaboration agreements that provide rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products. The fair value of IPR D projects acquired in a business combination are capitalized
and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets.   

Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information     

The
loss on the extinguishment of debt of $1.35 billion relates to the early redemption of $7.7 billion of long-term notes. The loss consists of the premium
paid on the notes and the write off of deferred financing costs totaling $1.83 billion and was partially offset by a gain of $479 million related to the unwinding of interest rate swaps
related to a portion of the debt. Other (income) expense, net, for 2012 includes income of approximately $60 million from the resolution of a contractual agreement and a loss of approximately
$62 million for the impairment of certain equity securities. As discussed in Note 1, Other (income) expense, net, for 2011 includes a charge of $137 million to recognize the
cumulative immaterial impacts to 2009 and 2010 relating to the change in year end for foreign subsidiaries. In addition, Other   

  61  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information (Continued)    

  (income)
expense, net, for 2011 includes $56 million of fair value adjustments and accretion in the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Solvay's pharmaceutical business.
Other (income) expense, net, for 2012, 2011 and 2010 also includes ongoing contractual payments from Takeda associated with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture.   

(a)    Accrued
wholesaler chargeback rebates of $300, $239 and $216 at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, are netted in trade receivables
because Abbott's customers are invoiced at a higher catalog price but only remit to Abbott their contract price for the products. The 2011 balances have been revised to reflect a reclassification of
certain amounts from Accrued other rebates to All other.
      (b)    2011
includes $1,509 related to a previously disclosed government investigation and $400 for acquired in-process research and development. 2012,
2011 and 2010 includes acquisition consideration payable of $400 related to the acquisition of Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business.    

(c)    2012,
2011 and 2010 includes acquisition consideration payable of $385, $770 and $1,150, respectively, related to the acquisition of Piramal Healthcare
Limited's Healthcare Solutions business.    

          The
judgment entered by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Abbott in its litigation with New York University and Centocor, Inc. required Abbott to
secure the judgment in the event that its appeal to the Federal Circuit court was unsuccessful in overturning the district court's decision. In the first quarter of 2010, Abbott deposited
$1.87 billion with an escrow agent and
considered these assets to be restricted. On February 23, 2011, the Federal Circuit reversed the district court's final judgment and found Centocor's patent invalid. On April 25, 2011
Centocor petitioned the Federal Circuit to rehear and reconsider the decision. In June 2011 the Federal Circuit denied Centocor's petition and the restrictions on the funds were lifted.   

  62  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures     

Certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated intercompany purchases
by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts, totaling $1.6 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011 and $1.3 billion at
December 31, 2010 are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign exchange rates and are recorded at fair value. Accumulated gains and losses
as of December 31, 2012 will be included in Cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally through the next twelve months. The amount of hedge ineffectiveness was not
significant in 2012, 2011 and 2010.   

          Abbott
enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage currency exposures for foreign currency denominated third-party trade payables and receivables, and for
intercompany loans and trade accounts payable where the receivable or payable is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. For intercompany loans, the contracts
require Abbott to sell or buy foreign currencies, primarily European currencies and Japanese yen, in exchange for primarily U.S. dollars and other European currencies. For intercompany and trade
payables and receivables, the currency exposures are primarily the U.S. dollar, European currencies and Japanese yen. At December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, Abbott held $18.2 billion,
$15.7 billion and $10.8 billion, respectively, of such foreign currency forward exchange contracts.   

          Abbott
has designated foreign denominated short-term debt as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign subsidiary of approximately $615 million, $680 million
and $650 million as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of this debt due to changes in exchange rates are recorded in Accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.   

          Abbott
is a party to interest rate hedge contracts totaling $9.5 billion, $6.8 billion and $7.3 billion at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, to
manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt. These contracts are designated as fair value hedges of the variability of the fair value of fixed-rate debt
due to changes in the long-term benchmark interest rates. The effect of the hedge is to change a fixed-rate interest obligation to a variable rate for that portion of the debt.
Abbott records the contracts at fair value and adjusts the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt by an offsetting amount. No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in income in 2012, 2011 and
2010 for these hedges.   

          Gross
unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale equity securities totaled $51 million, $64 million and $40 million at
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

  63  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)     

The following table summarizes the amounts and location of certain derivative financial instruments as of December 31:   

The following table summarizes the activity for foreign currency forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges, debt designated as a
hedge of net investment in a foreign subsidiary and the amounts and location of income (expense) and gain (loss) reclassified into income and for certain other derivative financial instruments. The
amount of hedge ineffectiveness was not significant in 2012, 2011 and 2010 for these hedges.   

The interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges of the variability of the fair value of fixed-rate debt due to changes in
the long-term benchmark interest rates. The hedged debt is marked to market, offsetting the effect of marking the interest rate swaps to market.   

The
carrying values and fair values of certain financial instruments as of December 31 are shown in the table below. The carrying values of all other financial instruments
approximate their estimated fair   

  64  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)    

  values.
The counterparties to financial instruments consist of select major international financial institutions. Abbott does not expect any losses from nonperformance by these counterparties.   

65  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)    

The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis in the balance sheet:   

The fair value of the debt was determined based on the face value of the debt adjusted for the fair value of the interest rate swaps, which is
based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined based on an independent appraisal adjusted for the time value of money, exchange and other
changes in fair value.   

  66  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits     

Retirement plans consist of defined benefit, defined contribution and medical and dental plans. Information for Abbott's major defined benefit plans and post-employment
medical and dental benefit plans is as follows: (   dollars in millions   )   

The projected benefit obligations for non-U.S. defined benefit plans was $3.1 billion, $2.3 billion and
$3.0 billion at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The accumulated benefit obligations for all defined benefit plans was $9.4 billion, $7.7 billion and
$7.5 billion at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For plans where the accumulated benefit obligations exceeded plan assets at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the
aggregate accumulated benefit obligations were $7.9 billion, $6.7 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively; the projected benefit obligations were $9.3 billion,
$7.9 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively; and the aggregate plan assets were $6.2 billion, $5.8 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively.   

          In
connection with the separation of AbbVie from Abbott on January 1, 2013, Abbott will transfer certain liabilities and assets of both defined benefit pension plans and medical
and dental plans. The   

  67  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

  estimated
amount of the accumulated benefit obligations, projected benefit obligations, fair value of assets and deferred gains and losses to be assumed by AbbVie are $3.9 billion,
$4.5 billion, $3.1 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, for defined benefit plans. The estimated amount of the accumulated benefit obligations and deferred gains and losses to
be assumed by AbbVie are $501 million and $114 million, respectively, for medical and dental plans.   

          During
2011, $776 million of assets and liabilities of a plan sponsored by Abbott Healthcare BV, a Dutch subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories, were irrevocably transferred to
a Dutch insurance company in full settlement of that plan. The assets were used to purchase an annuity contract to fulfill the plan's obligations.   

Other
comprehensive income (loss) for 2012 includes amortization of actuarial losses and prior service cost of $235 million and $4 million, respectively, and net actuarial
losses of $1.2 billion for defined benefit plans and amortization of actuarial losses and prior service credits of $34 million and $42 million, respectively, and net actuarial
losses of $134 million for medical and dental plans. Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2011 includes amortization of actuarial losses and prior service cost of $163 million and
$4 million, respectively, and net actuarial losses of $1.1 billion for defined benefit plans and amortization of actuarial losses and prior service credits of $38 million and
$42 million, respectively, and net actuarial gains of $66 million for medical and dental plans. Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2010 includes amortization of actuarial losses and
prior service cost of $136 million and $4 million, respectively, and net actuarial losses of $305 million for defined benefit plans and amortization of actuarial losses and prior
service credits of $38 million and $22 million, respectively, and net actuarial gains of $177 million for medical and dental plans. The pretax amount of actuarial losses and prior
service cost (credits) included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December 31, 2012 that is expected to be recognized in the net periodic benefit cost in 2013 is
$175 million and $5 million,
respectively, for defined benefit pension plans and $25 million and $(23) million, respectively, for medical and dental plans.   

          The
weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans are as follows:   

68  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

          The
weighted average assumptions used to determine the net cost for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans are as follows:   

The
assumed health care cost trend rates for medical and dental plans at December 31 were as follows:   

The
discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The
health care cost trend rates represent Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A
one-percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations as of
December 31, 2012, by $274 million /$(222) million, and the total of the service and interest cost components of net post-employment health care cost for the year then
ended by approximately $24 million /$(19) million.   

  69  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

The
following table summarizes the bases used to measure defined benefit plans' assets at fair value:   

(a)    A
mix of index funds that track the S P 500 (50 percent in 2012 and 45 percent in 2011 and 2010) and separate actively managed equity
accounts that are benchmarked to the Russell 1000 (50 percent in 2012 and 55 percent in 2011 and 2010).    

70  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

(b)    A
mix of index funds (75 percent) and separate actively managed equity accounts (25 percent) that track or are benchmarked to the
S P 400 midcap index.
      (c)    Primarily
separate actively managed pooled investment accounts that are benchmarked to the MSCI and MSCI emerging market indices.
      (d)    Index
funds not actively managed (50 percent in 2012 and 45 percent in 2011 and 2010) and separate actively managed accounts
(50 percent in 2012 and 55 percent in 2011 and 2010).
      (e)    Index
funds not actively managed (20 percent in 2012, 40 percent in 2011 and 15 percent in 2010) and separate actively managed accounts
(80 percent in 2012, 60 percent in 2011 and 85 percent in 2010).
      (f)    Primarily
United Kingdom, Japan and Irish government-issued bonds.
      (g)    Primarily
mortgage backed securities.
      (h)    Primarily
funds invested by managers that have a global mandate with the flexibility to allocate capital broadly across a wide range of asset classes and
strategies including, but not limited to equities, fixed income, commodities, interest rate futures, currencies and other securities to outperform an agreed upon benchmark with specific return and
volatility targets.
      (i)    Primarily
investments in liquid commodity future contracts and private energy funds.
      (j)    Primarily
cash and cash equivalents.    

Equities
that are valued using quoted prices are valued at the published market prices. Equities in a common collective trust or a registered investment company that are
valued using significant other observable inputs are valued at the net asset value (NAV) provided by the fund administrator. The NAV is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund
minus its liabilities. Fixed income securities that are valued using significant other observable inputs are valued at prices obtained from independent financial service industry-recognized vendors.
Absolute return funds and commodities are valued at the NAV provided by the fund administrator. Private energy funds are valued at the NAV provided by the partnership on a one-quarter lag
adjusted for known cash flows and significant events through the reporting date.   

          The
following table summarizes the change in the value of assets that are measured using significant unobservable inputs:   

The
investment mix of equity securities, fixed income and other asset allocation strategies is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher return, more volatile equity
securities, and lower return, less volatile fixed income securities. Investment allocations are made across a range of markets, industry   

  71  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

  sectors,
capitalization sizes, and in the case of fixed income securities, maturities and credit quality. The plans do not directly hold any securities of Abbott. There are no known significant
concentrations of risk in the plans' assets. Abbott's medical and dental plans' assets are invested in a similar mix as the pension plan assets.   

          The
plans' expected return on assets, as shown above is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying investment
portfolios. In establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, as well as current economic and capital market
conditions.   

          Abbott
funds its domestic pension plans according to IRS funding limitations. International pension plans are funded according to similar regulations. Abbott funded $379 million
in 2012, $394 million in 2011 and $525 million in 2010 to defined pension plans. Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic pension plan of $170 million in 2013. The
projected decrease reflects the separation of AbbVie from Abbott and the transfer of certain assets and liabilities to AbbVie.   

          Total
benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, giving effect to the separation of AbbVie from Abbott, which includes payments funded from company assets as well as paid from
the plans, are as follows: (   dollars in millions   )   

The
Abbott Stock Retirement Plan is the principal defined contribution plan. Abbott's contributions to this plan were $150 million in 2012, $151 million in 2011 and
$147 million in 2010.   

          Abbott
provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation plans, to qualifying domestic employees, and accrues for the related cost over the
service lives of the employees.   

    Note 5   Taxes on Earnings     

Taxes on earnings reflect the annual effective rates, including charges for interest and penalties. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax consequences on future years of differences
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts. The $620 million domestic loss before taxes in 2012 includes Abbott's $1.35 billion net loss on the
early extinguishment of debt and approximately $395 million of separation related expenses. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries which are intended to be
remitted to the parent company. Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries. Undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign
subsidiaries as working capital and plant and equipment aggregated $40.0 billion at December 31, 2012. It is not practicable to determine the amount of deferred income taxes not provided
on these earnings. In the U.S., Abbott's federal income tax returns through 2009 are settled except for one item, and the income tax returns for years after 2009 are open. There are numerous other
income tax jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none of which are individually significant. Reserves for interest and penalties are not significant.   

  72  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    Note 5   Taxes on Earnings (Continued)     

Earnings before taxes, and the related provisions for taxes on earnings, were as follows: (   dollars in millions   )   

Differences
between the effective income tax rate and the U.S. statutory tax rate were as follows:   

As
of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, total deferred tax assets were $7.4 billion, $6.3 billion and $6.1 billion, respectively, and total deferred tax
liabilities were $2.6 billion, $2.9 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. Abbott has incurred losses in a foreign jurisdiction where realization of the future economic benefit
is so remote that the benefit is not reflected as a deferred tax asset. Valuation allowances for   

  73  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 5   Taxes on Earnings (Continued)    

  recorded
deferred tax assets were not significant. The tax effect of the differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows: (   dollars in
millions   )   

The
following table summarizes the gross amounts of unrecognized tax benefits without regard to reduction in tax liabilities or additions to deferred tax assets and liabilities if such
unrecognized tax benefits were settled. (   dollars in millions   )   

The
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate is approximately $2.0 billion. Abbott believes that it is reasonably
possible that the recorded amount of
gross unrecognized tax benefits may decrease by $550 million to $650 million, including cash adjustments, within the next twelve months as a result of concluding various domestic and
international tax matters.   

    Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information     

Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products. Abbott's products are generally sold directly to retailers,
wholesalers, hospitals, health care facilities, laboratories, physicians' offices and government agencies throughout the world. Effective January 1, 2012, certain international operations were
transferred from the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment to the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment. The segment information below has been adjusted to reflect this reorganization.
Abbott's reportable segments are as follows:   

           Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products       Worldwide sales of a broad line of proprietary pharmaceutical products.   

  74  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information (Continued)    

            Established Pharmaceutical Products       International sales of a broad line of branded generic pharmaceutical products.   

            Nutritional Products       Worldwide sales of a broad line of adult and pediatric nutritional products.   

Diagnostic Products       Worldwide sales of diagnostic systems and tests for blood banks, hospitals, commercial laboratories and
alternate-care testing sites. For segment reporting purposes, the Core Laboratories Diagnostics, Molecular Diagnostics, Point of Care and Ibis diagnostic divisions are aggregated and
reported as the Diagnostic Products segment.   

            Vascular Products       Worldwide sales of coronary, endovascular, structural heart, vessel closure and other medical device products.   

          Non-reportable
segments include the Diabetes Care and Medical Optics segments.   

          Abbott's
underlying accounting records are maintained on a legal entity basis for government and public reporting requirements. Segment disclosures are on a performance basis consistent
with internal management reporting. Intersegment transfers of inventory are recorded at standard cost and are not a measure of segment operating earnings. The cost of some corporate functions and the
cost of certain employee benefits are charged to segments at predetermined rates that approximate cost. Remaining costs, if any, are not allocated to segments. For acquisitions prior to 2006,
substantially all intangible assets and related amortization are not allocated to segments. In addition, no intangible assets or related amortization are allocated to the Established Pharmaceutical
Products segment. The following segment information has been prepared in accordance with the internal accounting policies of Abbott, as described above, and are not presented in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles applied to the consolidated financial statements.    (dollars in millions)   

(a)    Net
sales and operating earnings were unfavorably affected by the relatively stronger U.S. dollar in 2012 and were favorably affected by the relatively
weaker U.S. dollar in 2011 and 2010.    

75  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information (Continued)    

(b)    Additions
to long-term assets in 2010 for the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment include goodwill of $2,797.    

(c)    Other,
net, for 2011 includes a charge of $1,509 related to a previously disclosed government investigation. Other, net, for 2012, 2011 and 2010 includes
charges of $1,309, $402 and $881, respectively, for separation related costs in 2012 and for cost reduction initiatives and integration.    

76  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information (Continued)    

(d)    Sales
by country are based on the country that sold the product.    

    Note 7   Litigation and Environmental Matters     

Abbott has been identified as a potentially responsible party for investigation and cleanup costs at a number of locations in the United States and Puerto Rico under federal and state
remediation laws and is investigating potential contamination at a number of company-owned locations. Abbott has recorded an estimated cleanup cost for each site for which management believes Abbott
has a probable loss exposure. No individual site cleanup exposure is expected to exceed $4 million, and the aggregate cleanup exposure is not expected to exceed $15 million.   

          There
are a number of patent disputes with third parties who claim Abbott's products infringe their patents. On February 21, 2012, the United States Supreme Court denied
Centocor Inc.'s and New York University's petition to review a February 2011 Federal Circuit Court of Appeals decision reversing a $1.67 billion judgment in favor of Centocor and New
York University on a patent they claimed Abbott's    HUMIRA    infringed. This decision concludes the case.   

          The
United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia, and various state Attorneys General investigated Abbott's sales and
marketing activities for    Depakote   . The government sought to determine whether any of these activities violated civil and/or criminal laws, including the
Federal False Claims Act, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and the Anti-Kickback Statute in connection with Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement to third parties. The state Attorneys
General offices sought to determine whether any of these activities violated various state laws, including state consumer fraud/protection statutes. Abbott recorded charges of $1.5 billion in
the third quarter of 2011 and $100 million in the first quarter of 2012 related to civil and criminal claims arising from this matter. In May 2012, Abbott reached resolution of all     Depakote   -related
federal claims, Medicaid-related claims with 49 states and the District of Columbia, and consumer protection claims with 45 states and
the District of Columbia. In 2012, Abbott paid approximately $1.6 billion for the settlement. The payments were material to Abbott's cash flows in 2012.   

  77  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 7   Litigation and Environmental Matters (Continued)    

          Abbott
estimates the range of possible loss for its legal proceedings and environmental exposures to be from approximately $70 million to $100 million. The recorded accrual
balance at December 31, 2012 for these proceedings and exposures was approximately $80 million. This accrual represents management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by FASB
ASC No. 450, "Contingencies." Within the next year, legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated loss accrued by Abbott. While it is not feasible to predict the
outcome of all such proceedings and exposures with certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows,
or results of operations.   

Note 8   Incentive Stock Program     

The 2009 Incentive Stock Program authorizes the granting of nonqualified stock options, replacement stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance awards,
foreign benefits and other share-based awards. Stock options, replacement stock options and restricted stock awards and units comprise the majority of benefits that have been granted and are currently
outstanding under this program and a prior program. In 2012, Abbott granted 1,931,213 stock options, 2,124,743 replacement stock options, 1,134,062 restricted stock awards and 7,056,609 restricted
stock units under this program. The purchase price of shares under option must be at least equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant, and the maximum term of an option is
10 years. Options vest equally over three years except for replacement options, which vest in six months. Options granted before January 1, 2005 included a replacement feature. Except
for options outstanding that have a replacement feature, options granted after December 31, 2004 do not include a replacement feature. When an employee tenders mature shares to Abbott upon
exercise of a stock option, a replacement stock option may be granted equal to the amount of shares tendered. Replacement options are granted at the then current market price for a term that expires
on the date of the underlying option grant.   

          Upon
a change in control of Abbott, all outstanding stock options become fully exercisable, and all terms and conditions of all restricted stock awards and units are deemed satisfied.
Restricted stock awards generally vest between 3 and 5 years and for restricted stock awards that vest over 5 years, no more than one-third of the award vests in any one year
upon Abbott reaching a minimum return on equity target. Restricted stock units vest over three years and upon vesting, the recipient receives one share of Abbott stock for each vested restricted stock
unit. The aggregate fair market value of restricted stock awards and units is recognized as expense over the service period. Restricted stock awards and settlement of vested restricted stock units are
issued out of treasury shares. Abbott generally issues new shares for exercises of stock options. Abbott does not have a policy of purchasing its shares relating to its share-based programs.   

At
December 31, 2012, approximately 155 million shares were reserved for future grants. Subsequent to year-end, the reserve was reduced by approximately
25 million shares for stock options and restricted stock awards and units granted by the Board of Directors. In connection with the separation of AbbVie from Abbott on January 1, 2013,
Abbott employees, including those employees transferring to AbbVie, holding stock options or restricted stock awards or units as of December 31,
2012 generally received one AbbVie stock option for each Abbott stock option held and one AbbVie restricted stock award or unit for each Abbott award or unit held. For Abbott stock options, the
exercise price of an Abbott option was adjusted to reflect the effect of the separation. The per share data presented below has not been adjusted to reflect this adjustment on the per share amounts.   

  78  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 8   Incentive Stock Program (Continued)    

          The
number of restricted stock awards and units outstanding and the weighted-average grant-date fair value at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012 was
14,698,595 and $50.29 and 15,506,416 and $53.17, respectively. The number of restricted stock awards and units, and the weighted-average grant-date fair value, that were granted, vested
and lapsed during 2012 were 8,190,671 and $56.74, 6,774,145 and $51.32 and 608,705 and $52.32, respectively. The fair market value of restricted stock awards and units vested in 2012, 2011 and 2010
was $385 million, $237 million and $203 million, respectively.   

The
aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2012 was $679 million and $633 million, respectively. The total intrinsic value
of options exercised in 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $528 million, $94 million and $77 million, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost related to all share-based
compensation plans at December 31, 2012 amounted to approximately $174 million, giving effect to the separation of AbbVie from Abbott, which is expected to be recognized over the next
three years.   

          Total
non-cash compensation expense charged against income in 2012, 2011 and 2010 for share-based plans totaled approximately $433 million, $383 million and
$385 million, respectively, and the tax benefit recognized was approximately $132 million, $116 million and $119 million, respectively. Compensation cost capitalized as
part of inventory is not significant.   

The
fair value of an option granted in 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $6.80, $6.23, and $9.24, respectively. The fair value of an option grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

The
risk-free interest rate is based on the rates available at the time of the grant for zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the
option's expected life. The average life of an option is based on both historical and projected exercise and lapsing data. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on
Abbott's stock and historical volatility of Abbott's stock over the expected life of the option. Dividend yield is based on the option's exercise price and annual dividend rate at the time of grant.   

  79  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 9   Debt and Lines of Credit     

The following is a summary of long-term debt at December 31: (   dollars in millions   )   

(1)    These
notes were issued by AbbVie Inc. in November 2012. With the separation of AbbVie on January 1, 2013, Abbott no longer has any
obligations related to this debt.    

In
2012, Abbott redeemed $7.7 billion of its outstanding notes. Abbott incurred a cost of $1.35 billion to extinguish this debt, net of gains from the unwinding of interest
rate swaps related to the debt. In 2012, AbbVie Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Abbott, issued $14.7 billion of long-term debt with maturities ranging from 3 to
30 years. The debt issued by AbbVie Inc. was guaranteed by Abbott with the guarantee expiring when AbbVie Inc. separated from Abbott on January 1, 2013.   

          After
the separation of AbbVie from Abbott on January 1, 2013, principal payments required on long-term debt outstanding and retained by Abbott are $309 million
in 2013 and $3.3 billion in 2019 and thereafter.   

          At
December 31, 2012, Abbott's long-term debt rating was A+ by Standard   Poor's Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investors Service. In the third quarter 2012,
Abbott replaced unused lines of credit of $3.0 billion and $3.7 billion that were to expire in October 2012 and in 2013, respectively, with two five-year credit facilities
totaling $7.0 billion that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements. One of the credit facilities totaling $2.0 billion will support AbbVie commercial paper borrowings after
separation and expired for Abbott at the separation of AbbVie from Abbott on January 1, 2013. Abbott's weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings was 0.4% at
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.   

  80  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    Note 10   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions     

On September 8, 2010, Abbott acquired Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business, a leader in the Indian branded generics market, for $2.2 billion, in cash,
plus additional payments of $400 million annually in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. Abbott recorded a $1.6 billion liability for the present value of the additional payments at the
acquisition date. The acquisition was financed with cash. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in the recording of $2.7 billion of deductible acquired intangible assets
and $1.0 billion of deductible goodwill. Acquired intangible assets consist primarily of trade names, customer relationships and associated rights and are amortized over an average of
19 years.   

          In
February 2010, Abbott acquired Solvay's pharmaceuticals business (Solvay Pharmaceuticals) for approximately $6.1 billion, in cash, plus additional payments of up to EUR
100 million per year if certain sales milestones are met in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Contingent consideration of approximately $290 million was recorded. The acquisition of Solvay
Pharmaceuticals provided Abbott with a large and complementary portfolio of pharmaceutical products and expands Abbott's presence in key global emerging markets. Abbott acquired control of this
business on February 15, 2010 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. Net sales for the acquired operations for
2010 were approximately $3.1 billion. Pretax loss of the acquired operations, including acquisition, integration and restructuring expenses, for 2010 was approximately $395 million. The
acquisition was funded with cash and short-term investments. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in the recording of $2.2 billion of
non-deductible goodwill, $4.1 billion of non-deductible intangible assets, $500 million of non-deductible acquired in-process research and
development assets, net tangible assets of $700 million and deferred income taxes of $1.1 billion. Acquired intangible assets consist primarily of product rights for currently marketed
products and are amortized over 2 to 14 years (average of 11 years). Acquired in-process research and development projects are accounted for as indefinite lived intangible
assets until regulatory approval or discontinuation. The net tangible assets acquired consist primarily of trade accounts receivable of approximately $675 million, inventory of approximately
$390 million, property and equipment of approximately $725 million, net of assumed liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other liabilities.   

          Had
the acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals taken place on January 1, 2010, unaudited pro forma net sales, net earnings and diluted earnings per share for 2010 would have been
$35.8 billion, $4.6 billion and $2.96, respectively. The pro forma information includes adjustments for amortization of intangible assets and fair value adjustments to
acquisition-date inventory as well as acquisition, integration and restructuring expenses. The pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations as
they would have been had the transaction been effected on the assumed date.   

In
March 2010, Abbott acquired STARLIMS Technologies for approximately $100 million, in cash, net of cash held by STARLIMS, providing Abbott with leading products and expertise to
build its position in laboratory informatics. A substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been allocated to goodwill and amortizable intangible assets. In April 2010, Abbott
acquired the outstanding shares of Facet Biotech Corporation for approximately $430 million, in cash, net of cash held by Facet. The acquisition enhanced Abbott's early- and
mid-stage pharmaceutical pipeline, including a biologic for multiple sclerosis and compounds that complement Abbott's oncology program. A substantial portion of the fair value of the
acquisition was allocated to acquired in-process research and development that is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation.   

  81  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 10   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions (Continued)    

          Except
for the acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals, had the above acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have
been significantly different from reported amounts.   

          Abbott's
Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment has entered into various collaboration research and development agreements. In 2012, Abbott acquired AP214, a drug under development
for the prevention of acute kidney injury associated with major cardiac surgery in patients at increased risk, and as a result of this transaction, Abbott recorded a charge to acquired
in-process and collaborations research and development of $110 million. In addition, in 2012, Abbott entered into a global collaboration to develop and commercialize an oral,
next-generation JAK1 inhibitor in Phase II development with the potential to treat multiple autoimmune diseases, and as a result of this transaction Abbott recorded a charge to
acquired in-process and collaborations research and development of $150 million. Additional payments of approximately $1.2 billion could be required for the achievement of
certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under this agreement. Under another collaboration, Abbott was granted the rights in 2012 to utilize up to three antibody-drug
conjugate compounds and Abbott recorded a charge to acquired in-process and collaborations research and development of $28 million. Additional payments of approximately
$220 million for each licensed compound could be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under this agreement. In connection with the
acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals, the achievement of a certain sales
milestone resulted in a payment of approximately $134 million in the first quarter of 2012 for which a liability was previously established.   

          During
2010 and 2011, Abbott entered into a series of transactions with Reata Pharmaceuticals which included (1) a collaboration agreement for the joint development and
commercialization of second generation oral antioxidant inflammation modulators resulting in a charge to acquired in-process and collaborations research and development of
$400 million in 2011, (2) an agreement to acquire licensing rights outside the U.S., excluding certain Asian markets, to bardoxolone methyl, a product in development for the treatment of
chronic kidney disease resulting in a charge to acquired in-process and collaborations research and development of $238 million in 2010 and (3) the acquisition of equity
interests in Reata of $62 million each in 2011 and 2010. In 2011, certain milestones were achieved in the development for the treatment of chronic kidney disease and charges to acquired
in-process and collaborations research and development of $188 million were recorded. In the first quarter of 2012, $50 million of research and development expense was
recorded related to the achievement of a clinical development milestone under the license agreement. The license agreement requires additional payments of up to $150 million if certain
development and regulatory milestones associated with the chronic kidney disease compound are achieved.   

          On
October 17, 2012 Reata informed Abbott that it is discontinuing the Phase III clinical study for bardoxolone methyl for chronic kidney disease. Reata and Abbott will
closely examine the data from this study to determine whether there is an appropriate path forward for the development of bardoxolone methyl in chronic kidney disease or other indications. In the
fourth quarter of 2012, Abbott recorded a charge of approximately $50 million for the impairment of the equity investment in Reata.   

In
2011, Abbott entered into an agreement with Biotest AG to develop and commercialize a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis resulting in a charge to acquired
in-process and collaborations research and development of $85 million. Additional payments totaling up to $395 million based on projected regulatory approval timelines could
be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under this agreement. In 2010, Abbott entered into an   

  82  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 10   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions (Continued)    

  agreement
with Neurocrine Biosciences to develop and commercialize a product for the treatment of endometriosis resulting in a charge to acquired in-process and collaborations research and
development of $75 million. Additional payments of approximately $500 million could be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under
this agreement.   

    Note 11   Goodwill and Intangible Assets     

Abbott recorded goodwill of approximately $3.4 billion in 2010 related to the acquisitions of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business, Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions
business, Facet Biotech and STARLIMS Technologies. Goodwill related to the Solvay, Piramal and Facet acquisitions was allocated to the pharmaceutical products segments. In addition, in 2010, Abbott
paid $250 million to Boston Scientific as a result of the approval to market the    Xience V    drug-eluting stent in Japan, resulting in
an increase in goodwill in the Vascular Products segment. Foreign currency translation and other adjustments increased (decreased) goodwill in 2012, 2011 and 2010 by $69 million,
$(225) million and $(879) million, respectively. The amount of goodwill related to reportable segments at December 31, 2012 was $6.3 billion for the Proprietary
Pharmaceutical Products segment, $3.0 billion for the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment, $209 million for the Nutritional Products segment, $385 million for the
Diagnostic Products segment, and $2.7 billion for the Vascular Products segment. There were no significant reductions of goodwill relating to impairments or disposal of all or a portion of a
business.   

          The
gross amount of amortizable intangible assets, primarily product rights and technology was $17.6 billion, $17.5 billion and $17.3 billion as of
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and accumulated amortization was $9.7 billion, $8.3 billion and $6.5 billion as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Indefinite-lived intangible assets, which relate to in-process research and development acquired in a business combination, were approximately $691 million,
$814 million and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In 2012 and 2011, Abbott recorded impairment charges of $82 million and
$174 million, respectively, for certain research and development assets due to changes in the projected development and regulatory timelines for the projects. The 2012 charge relates to a
non-reportable segment and in 2011, $125 million related to a non-reportable segment and $49 million related to the Other category in Abbott's segment reporting.
Discounted cash flow analysis was used to analyze fair value and the charges are included in research and development expenses. The estimated annual amortization expense for intangible assets recorded
at December 31, 2012, adjusted for the separation of AbbVie from Abbott, is approximately $800 million in 2013, $675 million in 2014, $590 million in 2015,
$605 million in 2016 and $565 million in 2017. Intangible asset amortization is included in Cost of products sold in the consolidated statement of earnings. Amortizable intangible assets
are amortized over 2 to 30 years (average 11 years).   

Note 12   Restructuring Plans     

In 2012, Abbott management approved plans to streamline various commercial operations in order to reduce costs and improve efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostics, established
pharmaceutical and nutritionals businesses. Abbott recorded employee related severance charges of approximately $167 million in 2012. Additional charges of approximately $22 million were
also recorded in 2012, primarily for asset impairments. Approximately $70 million is recorded in Cost of products sold and approximately $119 million as Selling, general and
administrative expense. As of December 31, 2012, no significant cash payments have been made relating to these actions.   

  83  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 12   Restructuring Plans (Continued)    

In
2011 and prior years, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical and vascular manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial
and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2011 and 2010, Abbott recorded charges of approximately $194 million and $56 million, respectively, reflecting the
impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $76 million in 2011 is classified as Cost of products sold,
$69 million as Research and development and $49 million as Selling, general and administrative. Approximately $56 million in 2010 is classified as Cost of products sold. The
following summarizes the activity for these restructurings:    (dollars in millions)   

An
additional $110 million, $25 million and $13 million were recorded in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, relating to these restructurings, primarily for
accelerated depreciation.   

          In
2012 and 2010, Abbott management approved restructuring plans primarily related to the acquisition of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business. These plans streamline operations, improve
efficiencies and reduce costs in certain Solvay sites and functions as well as in certain Abbott and Solvay commercial organizations in various countries. In 2012, Abbott recorded a charge of
approximately $150 million for employee severance and contractual obligations, primarily related to the exit from a research and development facility. Approximately $142 million is
recorded as Research and development and $8 million as Selling, general and administrative. In 2010, Abbott recorded charges to Cost of products sold, Research and development and Selling,
general and administrative of approximately $99 million,
$152 million and $272 million, respectively. The following summarizes the activity for these restructurings:    (dollars in millions)   

84  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 12   Restructuring Plans (Continued)    

          An
additional $38 million, $102 million and $12 million were recorded in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, relating to these restructurings, primarily for
additional employee severance and accelerated depreciation.   

          In
2011 and 2008, Abbott management approved plans to streamline global manufacturing operations, reduce overall costs, and improve efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostic business. In
2011, a charge of $28 million was recorded in Cost of products sold. The following summarizes the activity for these restructurings:    (dollars in
millions)   

In
addition, charges of approximately $16 million, $42 million and $60 million were recorded in 2012, 2011 and 2010, primarily for accelerated depreciation and
product transfer costs.   

  85  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 13   Quarterly Results (Unaudited)     

    (dollars in millions except per share data)     

(a)    The
sum of the quarters' basic earnings per share for 2011 and 2010 and diluted earnings per share for 2012 and 2011 do not add to the full year earnings
per share amounts due to rounding.    

86  

Management Report on Internal Control   Over Financial Reporting            

          The management of Abbott Laboratories is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting. Abbott's internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company's management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published
financial statements.   

          All
internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.   

          Abbott's
management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. In making this assessment, it used the criteria
set forth in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2012, the company's internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.   

          Abbott's
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on their assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting.
This report appears on page 89.   

  Miles
D. White 
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

  Thomas
C. Freyman 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

  Greg
W. Linder 
VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER   

  February 15,
2013   

  87  

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, shareholders' investment, and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   

          We
conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

          In
our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, and
the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.   

As
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, on January 1, 2013, the Company distributed all of the outstanding shares of AbbVie Inc., which
encompasses the Company's research-based pharmaceuticals business, to the Company's shareholders. As also discussed in Note 1, in 2011 the Company changed the year end of its foreign
subsidiaries from a November 30 fiscal year end to a December 31 calendar year end.   

          We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2012, based on the criteria established in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 15, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 15, 2013   

  88  

To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in     Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   

          We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

          A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or
persons performing similar
functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

          Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to
future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

          In
our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on the criteria established in     Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   

We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2012 and our report dated February 15, 2013 expresses an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding
the distribution of the shares of AbbVie Inc. to the Company's shareholders and the Company's change to the year end of its foreign subsidiaries.   

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 15, 2013   

  89  

ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE            

As previously reported on Abbott's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 14, 2012, the Audit Committee
of Abbott's Board of Directors approved the dismissal of Deloitte   Touche LLP (Deloitte) as Abbott's independent registered public accountant, effective as of the date of Deloitte's
completion of the audit services for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2013 and the filing of Abbott's 2013 Annual Report on Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K,
and approved the appointment of Ernst   Young LLP as Abbott's independent registered public accounting firm to perform independent audit services beginning with the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2014.   

          During
the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, and through February 15, 2013, (i) there were no disagreements (as that term is defined in
Item 304(a)(1)(iv) of Regulation S-K and the related instructions) between Abbott and Deloitte on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement
disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which, if not resolved to the satisfaction of Deloitte, would have caused Deloitte to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement in connection
with its reports on Abbott's consolidated financial statements for such years, and (ii) there were no "reportable events" (as that term is defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of
Regulation S-K).    

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES            

    Disclosure Controls and Procedures     

            Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.       The Chief Executive Officer, Miles D. White, and the Chief Financial Officer, Thomas
C. Freyman,
evaluated the effectiveness of Abbott Laboratories' disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and concluded that Abbott Laboratories' disclosure controls
and procedures were effective to ensure that information Abbott is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and to ensure that information required
to be disclosed by Abbott in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Abbott's management, including its principal executive officer and principal
financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   

    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

            Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting.       Management's report on Abbott's internal control over
financial reporting is
included on page 87 hereof. The report of Abbott's independent registered public accounting firm related to their assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting is
included on page 89 hereof.   

           Changes in internal control over financial reporting.       During the quarter ended December 31, 2012, there were no changes in Abbott's
internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's
internal control over financial reporting.    

ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION            

          None.   

  90  

PART III            

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE            

          Incorporated herein by reference are "Information Concerning Nominees for Directors," "Committees of the Board of Directors,"
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance," and "Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting" to be included in the
2013 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement. The 2013 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2013. Also incorporated herein by reference is the text found under the caption,
"Executive Officers of the Registrant" on pages 21 through 23 hereof.   

          Abbott
has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer and controller. That code is part of
Abbott's code of business
conduct which is available free of charge through Abbott's investor relations website (   www.abbottinvestor.com   ). Abbott intends to include on its website
(   www.abbott.com   ) any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of its code of ethics that applies to Abbott's principal executive officer, principal
financial officer, and principal accounting officer and controller that relates to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K.   

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION            

          The material to be included in the 2013 Proxy Statement under the headings "Director Compensation," and "Executive Compensation," and
"Compensation Committee Report" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2013 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2013.    

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS            

(a)     Equity Compensation Plan Information   .    

The
following table presents information as of December 31, 2012 about our compensation plans under which Abbott common shares have been authorized for issuance.   

1.    Weighted-average
exercise prices have not been adjusted to reflect the separation of AbbVie on January 1, 2013.
      2.    (i)
   Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program   . Benefits under the 1996 Program include stock options
intended to qualify for special tax treatment under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code ("incentive stock options"), stock options that do not qualify for that special tax treatment
("non-qualified stock options"), restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance awards, and foreign qualified benefits. The shares that remain available
for issuance under the 1996 Program may be issued in connection with any one of these benefits and may be either    

91  

authorized
but unissued shares or treasury shares (except that restricted stock awards may be satisfied only from treasury shares).    

  If
there is a lapse, expiration, termination, forfeiture or cancellation of any benefit granted under the 1996 Program without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder, the shares subject
to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized under the 1996 Program. If shares are issued under any benefit
under the 1996 Program and thereafter are reacquired by Abbott pursuant to rights reserved upon their issuance, or pursuant to the payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by
delivery of other common shares of Abbott, the shares subject to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may not again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized
under the 1996 Program.    

  In
April 2009, the 1996 Program was replaced by the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program. No further awards will be granted under the 1996 Program.    

  (ii)
   Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program.    Benefits under the 2009 Program include stock options that do not qualify for special tax
treatment under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code ("non-qualified stock options"), restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards, other share-based awards
(including stock appreciation rights, dividend equivalents and recognition awards), awards to non-employee directors, and foreign benefits. The shares that remain available for issuance
under the 2009 Program may be issued in connection with any one of these benefits and may be either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares (except that restricted stock awards may be
satisfied only from treasury shares).    

  If
there is a lapse, expiration, termination, forfeiture or cancellation of any benefit granted under the 2009 Program without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder, the shares subject
to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized under the 2009 Program. If shares are issued under any benefit
under the 2009 Program and thereafter are reacquired by Abbott pursuant to rights reserved upon their issuance, or pursuant to the payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by
delivery of other common shares of Abbott, the shares subject to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may not again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized
under the 2009 Program.    

  (iii)
   Abbott Laboratories 2009 Employee Stock Purchase Plan for Non-U.S. Employees.    Eligible employees of participating non-U.S.
affiliates of Abbott may participate in this plan. An eligible employee may authorize payroll deductions at the rate of 1% to 10% of eligible compensation (in multiples of one percent) subject to a
limit of US $12,500 during any purchase cycle.    

  Purchase
cycles are generally six months long and usually begin on August 1 and February 1. On the last day of each purchase cycle, Abbott uses participant contributions to acquire
Abbott common shares. The shares acquired come from treasury shares. The purchase price is 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the shares on that date or on the first day of that purchase
cycle.    

  (iv)
   Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. Plans.    In 2009, in connection with its acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., Abbott assumed
options outstanding under the Amended and Restated Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2002 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended; AMO's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated; the
Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan; the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Director Option and Stock Deferral Plan, as amended and restated; the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Stock
Plan, as amended; the VISX, Incorporated 2000 Stock Plan; and the VISX, Incorporated 2001 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan. As of December 31, 2012, 1,385,403 options remained outstanding under
the plans. These options have a weighted average purchase price of $79.84. No further awards will be granted under the plans.   

For
additional information concerning the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program, and the Abbott Laboratories 2009
Employee Stock   

  92  

Purchase
Plan for Non-U.S. Employees, see the discussion in Note 8 entitled "Incentive Stock Program" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8,
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."    

(b)     Information Concerning Security Ownership   .    Incorporated herein by reference is the material
under the heading "Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in the 2013 Proxy Statement. The 2013 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2013.    

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE            

          The material to be included in the 2013 Proxy Statement under the headings "The Board of Directors," "Committees of the Board of
Directors," "Corporate Governance Materials," and "Approval Process for Related Person Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2013 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 15, 2013.    

ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES            

          The material to be included in the 2013 Proxy Statement under the headings "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" and "Policy on
Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Auditor" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2013 Proxy Statement will be filed
on or about March 15, 2013.   

  93  

PART IV            

ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES            

(a)     Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K.   

(1)     Financial Statements:       See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," on page
51 hereof, for a list of financial statements.
      (2)     Financial Statement Schedules:       The required financial statement schedules are found on the
pages indicated below. These schedules should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of Abbott Laboratories:    

Abbott Laboratories Financial Statement Schedules

Page No.    

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (Schedule II)  
     
  97  

Schedules I, III, IV, and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not required  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
     
  98  

Individual Financial Statements of businesses acquired by the registrant have been omitted pursuant to Rule 3.05 of
Regulation S-X  

(3)     Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K:       The information
called for by this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index on pages 99 through 105 of this Form 10-K.

(b)     Exhibits filed (see Exhibit Index on pages 99 through 105).   
      (c)     Financial Statement Schedule filed (page 97).    
  94  

SIGNATURES            

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Abbott Laboratories has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

ABBOTT LABORATORIES  

By  
      
    /s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 15, 2013  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Abbott Laboratories on February 15,
2013 in the capacities indicated below.   

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White 
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer 
and Director of Abbott Laboratories 
(principal executive officer)  
     
   /s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman 
Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief 
Financial Officer (principal financial officer)  

/s/ GREG W. LINDER 

Greg W. Linder 
Vice President and Controller 
(principal accounting officer)  

/s/ ROBERT J. ALPERN, M.D. 

Robert J. Alpern, M.D. 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ ROXANNE S. AUSTIN 

Roxanne S. Austin 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ SALLY E. BLOUNT, PH.D. 

Sally E. Blount, Ph.D. 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ W. JAMES FARRELL 

W. James Farrell 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ EDWARD M. LIDDY 

Edward M. Liddy 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ NANCY MCKINSTRY 

Nancy McKinstry 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

95  

/s/ PHEBE N. NOVAKOVIC 

Phebe N. Novakovic 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
     
   /s/ WILLIAM A. OSBORN 

William A. Osborn 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ SAMUEL C. SCOTT III 

Samuel C. Scott III 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ GLENN F. TILTON 

Glenn F. Tilton 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

96  

ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES   SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS   FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012, 2011, AND 2010   (in thousands of dollars)            

97  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

  We
have audited the consolidated financial statements of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of and for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, and the Company's
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, and have issued our reports thereon dated February 15, 2013, which report relating to the consolidated financial
statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the distribution of the shares of AbbVie Inc. to the Company's shareholders and the Company's change
to the year end of its foreign subsidiaries; such reports are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the
Company listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In
our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

Chicago,
Illinois 
February 15, 2013   

  98  

EXHIBIT INDEX   ABBOTT LABORATORIES   ANNUAL REPORT   FORM 10-K   2012            

Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934."   

10-K 
Exhibit 
Table 
Item No.    

2.1  
     
       *Amendment No. 2 to Business Transfer Agreement dated January 29, 2011, by and among Abbott Healthcare Private Limited, Abbott
Laboratories, Piramal Healthcare Limited ("Piramal") and certain shareholders of Piramal, filed as Exhibit 2 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.  

2.2  
     
       *Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of November 28, 2012, by and between Abbott Laboratories and
AbbVie Inc.  

Certain schedules and exhibits have been omitted from this filing pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. Abbott
will furnish supplemental copies of any such schedules or exhibits to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.  

3.1  
     
       *Articles of Incorporation, Abbott Laboratories, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998.  

3.2  
     
       *By-Laws of Abbott Laboratories, as amended and restated effective April 27, 2012, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the
Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 17, 2012.  

4.1  
     
       *Indenture between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, dated as of November 8, 2012, filed
as Exhibit 4.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 8, 2012.  

4.2  
     
       *Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of November 8, 2012, to the Indenture dated as of November 8, 2012,
between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, dated as of November 8, 2012, filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 8, 2012.  

4.3  
     
       *Guarantee by Abbott Laboratories in favor of U.S. Bank National Association as Trustee for the Holders of Certain Securities
specified therein of AbbVie Inc., dated as of November 8, 2012, filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 8, 2012.  

4.4  
     
       *Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 8, 2012, by and among AbbVie Inc., Abbott Laboratories, Morgan
Stanley   Co. LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated as representatives of the Initial Purchasers, filed as Exhibit 4.4 to the Abbott
Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 8, 2012.  

4.5  
     
       *Indenture dated as of February 9, 2001, between Abbott Laboratories and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
(as successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.) (including form of Security), filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated
February 12, 2001.  

99  

100  

10-K 
Exhibit 
Table 
Item No.    

10.9  
     
       Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program, as amended and restated.**  

10.10  
     
       Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, as amended and restated.**  

10.11  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on
or after February 18, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 2005.**  

10.12  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option granted with an Incentive Stock Option under the
Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.13  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.14  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option granted with a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the
Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.15  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.16  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Replacement Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.17  
     
       *Form of Employee Restricted Stock Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as
Exhibit 10.6 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.18  
     
       *Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as
Exhibit 10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.19  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as
Exhibit 10.8 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.20  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed
as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2004.**  

10.21  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option granted with an Incentive Stock Option under the
Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program on or after February 18, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 2005.**  

101  

102  

103  

104  

The
2013 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under separate cover on or about March 15, 2013.   

*    Incorporated
herein by reference. Commission file number 1-2189.
      **    Denotes
management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.    

          Abbott
will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a shareholder upon written request to the Secretary, Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois
60064-6400.   

  105  

<EX-10.3>
 2
 a2212523zex-10_3.htm
 EX-10.3

Exhibit 10.3   
     
  Amended and Restated  
  effective January 1, 2013  
     
   ABBOTT LABORATORIES 401(K) SUPPLEMENTAL PLAN   
     
  SECTION 1  
  INTRODUCTION  
     
  1-1  .                               PURPOSE.  This Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan (the  Plan ) is being established by Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) to provide eligible management employees of Abbott an opportunity to accumulate capital for their retirement or other termination of employment in excess of the contributions allowed under the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan ( Stock Plan ).  
     
  1-2.                               EFFECTIVE DATE; GRANDFATHERED AMOUNTS.  The Plan became effective as of October 1, 1993 was subsequently amended and restated, effective as of January 1, 2008, in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A ( Code Section 409A ) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), and is hereby amended and restated, effective as of January 1, 2013.  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, any amounts under the Plan that were earned and vested before January 1, 2005 (as determined in accordance with Code Section 409A) with respect to participants who retired before January 1, 2005 ( Grandfathered Amounts ) shall be subject to the    terms and conditions of the Plan as administered and as in effect on December 31, 2004, provided that the provisions of the Plan, as amended effective December 9, 2005 in accordance with Code Section 409A, shall also apply to Grandfathered Amounts.  Except as expressly provided above or elsewhere herein, amendments made to the Plan pursuant to this amendment and restatement or otherwise shall not affect the Grandfathered Amounts.  The terms and conditions applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto.  
     
  1-3.                               JANUARY 1, 2013 RESTATEMENT NOT APPLICABLE TO RETIREES.  Except as expressly provided herein, the provisions of the Plan as they were in effect immediately prior to the January 1, 2013 amendment and restatement shall continue to apply to any participant who retired or terminated employment prior to January 1, 2013.  
     
  1-4.                               ADMINISTRATION.  The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) appointed by the Board of Directors of Abbott (the  Board of Directors ).  
     
  SECTION 2  
  ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION  
     
  2-1.                               PERSONS ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE.  Participation in the Plan shall be limited to employees who are serving as corporate officers of Abbott as of October 1, 1993 or who become corporate officers thereafter. The term  corporate officer  for purposes of the Plan shall mean an individual elected an officer of Abbott by its Board of Directors (or designated as such for  
     
  1    

purposes of the Plan by the Committee), but shall not include assistant officers. In the event an employee should cease to be a corporate officer of Abbott due to demotion or otherwise while remaining in the employ of Abbott, (a) such employee s elective deferral in effect for such year shall remain irrevocable, (b) Abbott s matching contributions under Section 4 shall immediately cease, and (c) such employee shall no longer be eligible to participate in the Plan as of the end of such calendar year.  In the event an employee should cease to be a corporate officer of Abbott due to termination of employment, such employee shall cease to be eligible to participate in the Plan and any contributions then being made on behalf of such employee shall immediately cease.  
     
  2-2.                               PARTICIPANT.  An eligible employee may elect to participate in the Plan by electing to have contributions made on the employee s behalf as provided in Section 5.  
     
  SECTION 3  
  EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS  
     
  3-1.                               ALLOWABLE CONTRIBUTIONS.  An eligible employee may elect to have his employer make  pre-tax contributions  on his behalf in an amount not greater than 18% in total of his compensation in any calendar year for services rendered to his employer. A pre-tax contribution made by an employer on behalf of a participant shall reduce the participant s compensation at the time of payment of such compensation. Each election hereunder shall be in writing, and shall be in multiples of 1% of compensation.  
     
  3-2.                               COMPENSATION.  A participant s  compensation  shall have the same meaning as that term is used in Article 15 of the Stock Plan.  
     
  3-3.                               MAXIMUM EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS.  Notwithstanding subsection 3-1, in no event shall the sum of:  
     
  (a)                                     the participant s total contributions, pre-tax contributions, supplemental deposits and supplemental pre-tax contributions made under the Stock Plan; plus  
     
  (b)                                     the participant s total pre-tax contributions made under the Plan;  
     
  for any calendar year, exceed 18% of the employee s compensation for such year.  In the event the limitation described in this subsection 3-3 would be exceeded for any participant, the participant s pre-tax contributions made under this Plan shall be reduced until the limit is not exceeded.  
     
  3-4.                               CHANGE IN STOCK PLAN.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Sections 3-1 and 3-3 above, no action or inaction by an employee under the Stock Plan may result in a change in amounts contributed to the Plan in excess of the limit with respect to elective deferrals under Section 402(g)(1)(A), (B) and (C) of the Code in effect for the year in which the action or inaction occurs.  
     
  2    

SECTION 4  
  EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS  
     
  For the calendar year ending December 31, 1993, and for each subsequent calendar year, Abbott shall make a contribution on behalf of each participant in the Plan who makes pre-tax contributions ( basic contributions ) under the Plan during such year at the rate of two percent (2%) of compensation in excess of, for calendar year 1993, Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000), and for calendar years subsequent to 1993, the limit in effect for such year under Code Section 40l(a)(17). Such employer contribution shall be in an amount equal to the contribution the participant would have received under subsection 8-3 of the Stock Plan with respect to such basic contributions had such basic contributions been made under subsection 7-1 of the Stock Plan.  
     
  To the extent applicable, a contribution made by a participant under subsection 5-4 shall be considered a basic contribution for purposes of this Section 4 to the extent it includes contributions at the rate of two percent (2%) of compensation for 1993 in excess of Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000).  
     
  SECTION 5  
  ELECTIONS  
     
  5-1.                               ANNUAL ELECTIONS REQUIRED.  Except as provided in Section 5-3, a participant shall elect to make pre-tax contributions with respect to compensation earned in any calendar year on or prior to December 31  st   of the prior calendar year.  Each such election shall be in writing, shall be filed with the Committee, shall be effective only for the calendar year for which made and shall be irrevocable.  An employee who fails to make a timely election under this subsection 5-1 for a calendar year may not contribute to the Plan during the following year.  
     
  5-2.                               [Section intentionally omitted.]  
     
  5-3.                               NEWLY ELIGIBLE AND NEWLY HIRED EMPLOYEES.  A newly hired corporate officer described in Section 2-1 shall become eligible to participate in the Plan on the first day of the month next following the month after the individual s date of hire;  provided , that in no event may such individual begin to participate in the Plan later than 90 days following his or her date of hire.  An eligible employee described in the preceding sentence (who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) shall make the election described in Section 5-1 within thirty (30) days of the date on which he first becomes eligible under the Plan.  Any such election shall become effective for compensation earned no earlier than the first payroll period commencing after receipt of the election by the Committee and shall be irrevocable for the remainder of the calendar year.  Any other newly eligible employee shall make the election described in Section 5-1 no later than December 31  st   of the year in which such employee first becomes eligible under the Plan.  Any such election shall become effective for compensation earned in the calendar year following the year in which the election is made.  
     
  5-4.                               SPECIAL CONTRIBUTION FOR 1993.  Employees who are serving as corporate officers of Abbott and who have established  Grantor Trusts  under the 1986 Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan ( MIP ) as of October 1, 1993, may elect to make a lump-sum  
     
  3    

contribution based on compensation earned during the period of January 1, 1993 through September 30, 1993 (the  Make-Up Period ) by filing an election with the Administrator and tendering payment in cash to such Grantor Trust of the amount of the contribution, not later than October 31, 1993.  Any such contribution shall not exceed the maximum contribution allowed under subsection 3-3 based on the employee s Stock Plan contributions made, and compensation earned, during the Make-Up Period.  
     
  5-5.                               GRANTOR TRUST ELECTION.  At the time of the annual elections described in subsection 5-1, each participant may elect to have his pre-tax and employer contributions for the following year deposited in a  Grantor Trust  established by the participant under the circumstances and on the terms described in subsection 6-1, rather than defer such contributions under subsection 5-1.  Any such election shall be irrevocable and shall apply to all pre-tax contributions made during, and employer contributions made for, such calendar year on behalf of such participant.  If the participant fails to make an election under this subsection 5-5, the participant s pre-tax contributions made during, and employer contribution made for, such calendar year shall be retained by Abbott and shall not be deposited in a Grantor Trust in the future.  In no event shall such contributions be paid to the Grantor Trust later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  
     
  SECTION 6  
  FUNDING EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS  
     
  6-1.                               CONTRIBUTIONS TO BE DEPOSITED IN GRANTOR TRUSTS.  Each participant s pre-tax contributions and employer contributions for which the participant has filed an election under subsection 5-5 shall be deposited in a  Grantor Trust  established by the participant, as described in subsection 6-3, provided such trust is in a form which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust attached to this Plan as Exhibit B.  
     
  6-2.                               CONTRIBUTIONS TO BE RETAINED BY ABBOTT.  Each participant s pre-tax contributions and employer contributions for which the participant has not filed an election under subsection 5-5 shall be retained by Abbott and credited to a Deferred Account established under subsection 7-1.  
     
  6-3.                               AFTER ESTABLISHMENT OF GRANTOR TRUST.  After a Grantor Trust has been established by a participant under subsection 6-1, all pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made thereafter for which the participant has filed an election under subsection 5-5, shall be deposited in such Grantor Trust (less the aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes withheld on behalf of the participant (determined under subsection 8-5) attributable to such contributions). Such deposits shall be made as soon as practicable after the last complete payroll period of the calendar quarter in which the contributions are made.  In no event shall such contributions be paid to the Grantor Trust or the participant later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  
     
  6-4.                               [Section intentionally omitted.]  
     
  4    

6-5.                               ELIMINATION OF GRANTOR TRUST FUNDING THRESHOLD.  Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, effective as of January 1, 2005, the Grantor Trust established by the participant shall be funded in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  
     
  6-6.                               UTILIZATION OF TRANSITION RELIEF UNDER SECTION 409A OF THE CODE.  Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, pursuant to Q A-20 of Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 (the  Notice ), Abbott shall cause the amount of all pre-tax and employer contributions and all associated earnings, including guaranteed rate payments, for the periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2005 for each participant who has made a Grantor Trust election under subsection 5-5, to the extent not previously contributed to a Grantor Trust established by the participant, to be deposited in such Grantor Trust on or prior to December 31, 2005.  Such contribution is intended to result in a partial termination of participation in the Plan as permitted by the Notice.  Each participant who has established a Grantor Trust and who receives such contribution shall include the full amount of such Grantor Trust contribution in the participant s income in 2005.  
     
  SECTION 7  
  ACCOUNTING  
     
  7-1.                               SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.  The Committee shall establish accounts for participants who have made elections pursuant to subsection 5-1 or 5-5 as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The Committee shall maintain a  Deferred Account  in the name of each participant who has elected to defer payment of all or a portion of his or her pre-tax contributions under subsection 5-1.  The Deferred Account shall be comprised of any pre-tax contributions made on behalf of the participant under subsection 3-1 and any other allocations made on behalf of the participant under Section 4, in each case, for which the participant has not made an election under subsection 5-5, and any adjustments made pursuant to subsection 7-2.  
     
  (b)                                     The Committee shall maintain two separate Accounts, a  Pre-Tax Account  and an  After-Tax Account,  in the name of each participant who has declined to defer allocations by electing to have a portion of his or her pre-tax and employer contributions deposited in cash to a Grantor Trust according to subsection 5-5.  The Pre-Tax Account shall consist of the aggregate of all pre-tax contributions contemplated by subsection 3-1, whether deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust or paid in cash to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant, and any adjustments in accordance with subsection 7-3.  The After-Tax Account shall consist of employer contributions deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust in cash according to subsection 5-5 and any adjustments made in accordance with subsection 7-4.  
     
  7-2.                               ADJUSTMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS.  No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s Deferred Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  5    

(a)                                     FIRST, reduced by an amount equal to any distribution made to the participant during that year pursuant to subsections 7-11 or 7-12;  
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made on behalf of such participant for that year for which the participant has not made an election under subsection 5-5; and  
     
  (c)                                      FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the Interest earned for that year pursuant to subsection 7-5.  
     
  7-3.                               ADJUSTMENT OF PRE-TAX ACCOUNTS.  No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s Pre-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  (a)                                 FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the participant if the aggregate amounts allocated according to subsection 5-5 had instead been deferred under subsection 5-1;  
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made on behalf of the participant for that year that are paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant (including any contributions paid to the participant s Grantor Trust) according to subsection 5-5; and  
     
  (c)                                      FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the Interest earned for that year pursuant to subsection 7-5.  
     
  7-4.                               ADJUSTMENT OF AFTER-TAX ACCOUNTS.  No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s After-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant is in receipt of a benefit distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount calculated as provided by subsection 7-16 which represents the distribution for such year;  
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made on behalf of the participant for that year that are deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust according to subsection 5-5; and  
     
  (c)                                      FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest earned for that year pursuant to subsection 7-5.  
     
  7-5.                               INTEREST ACCRUALS ON ACCOUNTS.  
     
  (a)                                     No later than as of the end of each calendar year, a participant s Deferred Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be credited with interest ( Interest ) at the following rate:  
     
  6    

(i)                                         the average of the  prime rate  of interest published by the Wall Street Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the calendar year; plus  
     
  (ii)                                      two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  
     
  (b)                                     No later than as of the end of each calendar year, a participant s After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest set forth above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable federal, state and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate, determined in accordance with subsections 8-4 and 8-5) (the  After-Tax Interest ).  
     
  (c)                                      The Interest and After-Tax Interest, as applicable, shall be credited on the conditions established by the Committee.  
     
  7-6.                               INTEREST PAYMENTS.    In addition to any employer contribution made on behalf of a participant for any calendar year pursuant to section 4, Abbott shall also make a payment (an  Interest Payment ) with respect to each participant who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  Prior to the amendment and restatement effective as of January 1, 2013, the Interest Payment equaled the excess, if any, of the participant s Net Interest Accrual (as defined below) over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year (the  Pre-Amendment Amount ) and was paid to the participant s Grantor Trust within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  Effective as of January 1, 2013, the Interest Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the participant s adjustment in subsection 7-3(c), over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year, as adjusted by the amounts described in Schedule A, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  A portion of such Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust (i.e., the Pre-Amendment Amount), shall be deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust exceed the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with subsection 8-11.  A participant s Net Interest Accrual for a year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest credited to the participant s After-Tax Account for that year in accordance with subsection 7-5.  
     
  7-7.                               GRANTOR TRUST ASSETS.  Each participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit B.  
     
  7-8.                               DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARIES.  Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth below, each participant, and after a participant s death, each primary beneficiary designated by a participant in accordance with the provisions of this subsection 7-8, shall have the right from time to time to designate a primary beneficiary or beneficiaries and, successive or  
     
  7    

contingent beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive unpaid amounts from the participant s Deferred Account under the Plan.  Beneficiaries may be a natural person or persons or a fiduciary, such as a trustee of a trust or the legal representative of an estate.  Any such designation shall take effect upon the death of the participant or such beneficiary, as the case may be, or in the case of any fiduciary beneficiary, upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the Plan).  The conditions and limitations relating to the designation of beneficiaries are as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall have the right to designate a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the original participant or the next preceding primary beneficiary, as the case may be, shall have expressly so provided in writing; and  
     
  (b)                                     A fiduciary beneficiary shall designate as a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only those persons or other fiduciaries who are entitled to receive the amounts payable from the participant s account under the trust or estate of which it is a fiduciary.  
     
  Any beneficiary designation or grant of any power to any beneficiary under this subsection may be exercised only by an instrument in writing, executed by the person making the designation or granting such power and filed with the Secretary of Abbott during such person s lifetime or prior to the termination of a fiduciary s duties.  If a deceased participant or a deceased nonfiduciary beneficiary who had the right to designate a beneficiary as provided above dies without having designated a further beneficiary, or if no beneficiary designated as provided above is living or qualified and acting, the Committee, in its discretion, may direct distribution of the amount remaining from time to time to either:  
     
  (i)                                    any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the participant or the deceased beneficiary, as the case may be, and in such proportions as the Committee determines; or  
     
  (ii)                                      the legal representative of the estate of the deceased participant or deceased beneficiary as the case may be.  
     
  7-9.                               NON-ASSIGNABILITY AND FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  Amounts payable to participants and their beneficiaries under the Plan are not in any way subject to their debts and other obligations, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned; provided that the preceding provisions of this section shall not be construed as restricting in any way a designation right granted to a beneficiary pursuant to the terms of subsection 7-8.  When a participant or the beneficiary of a participant is under legal disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Committee may direct that payments shall be made to the participant s or beneficiary s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of the participant or beneficiary for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary, or the Committee may direct the payment or distribution for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary in any manner that the Committee determines.  
     
  7-10.                        PAYER OF AMOUNTS ALLOCATED TO PARTICIPANTS.  Any employer contribution made on behalf of a participant in the Plan and any interest credited with respect thereto will be paid by the employer (or such employer s successor) by whom the participant was  
     
  8    

employed during the calendar year for which any amount was contributed, and for that purpose, if a participant shall have been employed by two or more employers during any calendar year the amount allocated under this Plan for that year shall be an obligation of each of the respective employers in proportion to the respective amounts of compensation paid by each of them in that calendar year.  
     
  7-11.                        MANNER OF PAYMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS.  Subject to subsection 7-12, a participant shall elect to receive payment of his Deferred Account in substantially equal annual installments over a minimum period of ten years, or a longer period, at the time of his election for such calendar year under subsection 5-1.  Payment of a participant s Deferred Account shall commence on the first business day of January of the year following the year in which the participant incurs a termination of employment.  
     
  7-12.                        PAYMENT UPON TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if a participant incurs a termination of employment with Abbott and its subsidiaries for any reason within two (2) years following the date of a Change in Control, provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change in control event,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with respect to a participant whose contributions under the Plan are deferred in accordance with subsection 5-1, the aggregate unpaid balance of the participant s Deferred Account shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment, and (b) with respect to a participant whose contributions under the Plan are made pursuant to subsection 5-5, (i) the aggregate of the participant s unpaid contributions under subsection 5-5 (if any) for the fiscal year in which the termination occurs and (ii) a pro rata portion of the unpaid Interest Payment under subsection 7-6 attributable to the portion of the year elapsed prior to the date of termination, shall be paid to such participant s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment.  
     
  7-13.                        CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  
     
  (a)                                     the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  
     
  (b)                                     the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of Abbott) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by Abbott s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either  
     
  9    

were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
     
  (c)                                      the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of Abbott or any direct or indirect subsidiary of Abbott with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of Abbott, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if Abbott or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of Abbott outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any subsidiary of Abbott, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of Abbott or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Abbott (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (d)                                     the date the shareholders of Abbott approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of Abbott or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets, other than a sale or disposition by Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by shareholders of Abbott, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any subsidiary of Abbott, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of Abbott immediately prior to such sale.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of Abbott immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have    substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of Abbott immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) Abbott or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other  
     
  10    

fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of Abbott in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of Abbott.  
     
   7-14.                     POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  
     
  (a)                                     Abbott enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  
     
  (b)                                     Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  
     
  (c)                                      Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of Abbott or the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates).  
     
  (d)                                     The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  
     
  7-15.                        PROHIBITION AGAINST AMENDMENT.  The provisions of subsections 7-12, 7-13, 7-14 and this subsection 7-15 may not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Plan, (i) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control.  
     
  7-16.                        ADMINISTRATOR S CALCULATION OF GRANTOR TRUST DISTRIBUTIONS. The Administrator shall calculate the amount to be distributed from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in which the participant is entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (i) the amount of the reduction determined in accordance with subsection 7-3(a), by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the participant s After-Tax Account as of  
     
  11    

the end of the prior calendar year and the denominator of which is the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date.  
     
  SECTION 8  MISCELLANEOUS  
     
  8-1.                               RULES.  The Committee may establish such rules and regulations as it may consider necessary or desirable for the effective and efficient administration of the Plan.  
     
  8-2.                               TAXES.  Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or desirable, to pay, or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax attributable to any amounts payable by it under the Plan and may require payment from the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  
     
  8-3.                               RIGHTS OF PARTICIPANTS.  Employment rights of participants with Abbott and its subsidiaries shall not be enlarged or affected by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant in the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan shall require Abbott or any subsidiary to segregate or earmark any assets, funds or property for the purpose of payment of any amounts which may have been deferred.  The Deferred, Pre-Tax and After-Tax Accounts established pursuant to subsection 7-1 are for the convenience of the administration of the Plan and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied.  Participant s rights shall be limited to payment to them at the time or times and in such amounts as are contemplated by the Plan.  Any decision made by the Committee which is within his sole and uncontrolled discretion, shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons whomsoever.  
     
  8-4.                               EMPLOYMENT TAX ASSUMPTIONS.  For purposes of Sections 7 and 8, a participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made.  
     
  8-5.                               INCOME TAX ASSUMPTIONS.  For purposes of Sections 7 and 8, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal individual income tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made, and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses.  
     
  8-6.                               GENDER.  For purposes of the Plan, words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.  
     
  8-7.                               MANNER OF ACTION BY COMMITTEE.  A majority of the members of the Committee qualified to act on any particular question may act by meeting or by writing signed without meeting, and may execute any instrument or document required or delegate to one of its members authority to sign.  The Committee from time to time may delegate the performance of certain ministerial functions in connection with the Plan, such as the keeping of records, to such person or persons as the Committee may select.  Except as otherwise expressly provided in the  
     
  12    

Plan, the costs of administration of the Plan will be paid by Abbott.  Any notice required to be given to, or any document required to be filed with the Committee, will be properly given or filed if mailed or delivered in writing to the Secretary of Abbott.  
     
  8-8.                               RELIANCE UPON ADVICE.  The Board of Directors and the Committee may rely upon any information or advice furnished to it by any Officer of Abbott or by Abbott s independent auditors, or other consultants, and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information or advice.  No member of the Board of Directors or the Committee shall be liable for any act or failure to act on their part, excepting only any acts done or omitted to be done in bad faith, nor shall they be liable for any act or failure to act of any other member.  
     
  8-9.                               CHANGE OF CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS.  No change to the time of payment or the time of commencement of payment and any period over which payment shall be made shall be effected except in strict compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b), to the extent subject thereto.  
     
  8-10.                        CODE SECTION 409A.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all purposes of the Plan, a participant shall not be deemed to have had a termination of employment until the participant has incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under the Plan that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the rate of Interest provided in subsection 7-5(a) (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant under subsection 7-6), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  In addition, for purposes of the Plan, each amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  
     
  8-11.                        DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER.  In accordance with Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), distributions shall be made to an individual (other than to the participant) pursuant to the terms of a  domestic relations order  (as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 414(p)(1)(B)), as determined and administered by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Abbott or his or her delegate, provided, that such order (a) does not require the plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option not otherwise provided under the plan, (b) does not require the plan to provide increased benefits, and (c) does not require the payment of benefits to an alternate payee which are required to be paid to another alternate payee under another order.  
     
  8-12.                        GRANTOR TRUSTS.  Abbott, as the administrator of the participant s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to the participant from the income of such Grantor Trust an amount sufficient to pay the taxes on the Grantor Trust earnings for such year, to the extent a  
     
  13    

sufficient sum of money has not been paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant pursuant to subsection 7-6.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with subsections 8-4 and 8-5.  
     
  SECTION 9  AMENDMENT, TERMINATION AND CHANGE OF  CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS  
     
  The Plan will be effective from its effective date until terminated by the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors reserves the right to amend the Plan from time to time and to terminate the Plan at any time. No such amendment or any termination of the Plan shall reduce any fixed or contingent obligations which shall have arisen under the Plan prior to the date of such amendment or termination.  
     
  14    

EXHIBIT A   
     
   ABBOTT LABORATORIES 401(k) SUPPLEMENTAL PLAN   
     
  [Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan, as amended, as filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 9, 2005.]  
     
  1    

EXHIBIT B   
     
   IRREVOCABLE GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT, made this             day of                    ,      , by and between                         of                             , Illinois (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  
     
  WITNESSETH THAT:  
     
  WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the Abbott Laboratories 40l(k) Supplemental Plan, as it may be amended from time to time;  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  
     
  ARTICLE I  INTRODUCTION  
     
  I-1.          NAME. This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to as the                   Grantor Trust .  
     
  I-2.          THE TRUST FUND.  The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  
     
  I-3.          STATUS OF THE TRUST.  The trust shall be irrevocable. The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  
     
  I-4.          THE ADMINISTRATOR. Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below. Abbott will certify to the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the administrator. The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  
     
  I-5.          ACCEPTANCE.  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.  
     
  ARTICLE II  DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND  
     
  II-1.        DEFERRED ACCOUNT.  The administrator shall maintain a  deferred account  under the trust. As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge the deferred account with all distributions made from such account during that year; and credit such account  
     
  2    

with income and realized gains and charge such account with expenses and realized losses for the year.  
     
  II-2.        DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE DEFERRED ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  Principal and accumulated income credited to the deferred account shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s retirement or other termination of employment with Abbott or a subsidiary of Abbott (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the deferred account for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in that account.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date. Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the amounts from time to time credited to the deferred account to the grantor, if then living, either in a lump-sum payable as soon as practicable following the settlement date, or in a series of annual installments, with the amount of each installment computed by one of the following methods:  
     
  (a)                                     The amount of each installment shall be equal to the sum of: (i) the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs, divided by the number of years over which installments are to be distributed; plus (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year (excluding the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs).  
     
  (b)                                     The amount of each installment shall be determined by dividing the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the preceding year by the difference between (i) the total number of years over which installments are to be distributed, and (ii) the number of annual installment distributions previously made from the deferred account.  
     
  (c)                                      Each installment (after the first installment) shall be approximately equal, with the amount comprised of the sum of: (i) the amount of the first installment, plus interest thereon at the rate determined under the Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan, compounded annually; and (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the final installment distribution made to the grantor under this paragraph II-3 shall equal the total principal and accumulated income then held in the trust fund. The grantor, by writing filed with the trustee and the administrator on or before the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs, may select either the lump-sum or an installment payment method and, if an installment method is selected, may select both the period (which may not be less than ten years from the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurred) over which the installment distributions are to be made and the method of computing the amount of each installment.  In the absence of such a written direction by the grantor, installment distributions shall be made over a period of ten years, and the amount of each installment shall be computed by using the method described in subparagraph (a) next above.  Installment distributions under this Paragraph II-2 shall be made as of January 1 of each year, beginning with the calendar year following the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the amount of each installment distribution under this  
     
  3    

paragraph II-2, and the trustee shall be fully protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  
     
  II-3.        DISTRIBUTIONS AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The grantor, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof shall be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s death.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum. If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.  
     
  II-4.        FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  
     
  II-5.        PERPETUITIES.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  
     
  ARTICLE III  MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND  
     
  III-1.      GENERAL POWERS.  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  
     
  (a)                                     Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  
     
  4    

(b)                                 To retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  
     
  (c)                                      To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such depositary.  
     
  (d)                                     To invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the trustee solely for the investment of trust funds.  
     
  (e)                                      To borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  
     
  (f)                                       To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  
     
  (g)                                      To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  
     
  (h)                                     To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  
     
  (i)                                         To give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  
     
  (j)                                        To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  
     
  (k)                                     To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  
     
  (l)                                         To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing  
     
  5    

authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee considers necessary for its protection.  
     
  (m)                                 To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity, without liability for any loss that may result.  
     
  (n)                                     To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  
     
  (o)                                     To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  
     
  (p)                                     To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.  
     
  (q)                                     To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  
     
  III-2.      PRINCIPAL AND INCOME.  Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust. The grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  
     
  III-3.      STATEMENTS.  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period.  
     
  III-4.      COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  
     
  6    

ARTICLE IV  GENERAL PROVISIONS  
     
  IV-1.       INTERESTS NOT TRANSFERABLE.  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  
     
  IV-2.       DISAGREEMENT AS TO ACTS.  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper court.  
     
  IV-3.       TRUSTEE S OBLIGATIONS.  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or distribution.  The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement.  
     
  IV-4.       GOOD FAITH ACTIONS.  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee.  
     
  IV-5.       WAIVER OF NOTICE.  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  IV-6.       CONTROLLING LAW.  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  
     
  IV-7.       SUCCESSORS.  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  
     
  ARTICLE V  CHANGES IN TRUSTEE  
     
  V-1.        RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE.  The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty days  advance written notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  
     
  V-2.        APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary  
     
  7    

then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement.  A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  
     
  V-3.        DUTIES OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account. Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee. With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  
     
  ARTICLE VI  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION  
     
  VI-1.       AMENDMENT.  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  
     
  (b)                                     This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.  
     
  VI-2.       TERMINATION.  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II.  
     
  *      *      *  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor           

The Northern Trust   Company, as Trustee           

By       

Its       

8    

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.4>
 3
 a2212523zex-10_4.htm
 EX-10.4

Exhibit 10.4   
     
  Amended and Restated  effective January 1, 2013  
     
   ABBOTT LABORATORIES SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN   
     
  Section 1  INTRODUCTION  
     
  1-1.                               On September 9, 1977, December 14, 1979 and February 10, 1984 the Board of Directors of Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) adopted certain resolutions providing for payment of (i) pension benefits calculated under the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan ( Annuity Plan ) in excess of those which may be paid under that plan under the limits imposed by Section 415 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ) and (ii) the additional pension benefits that would be payable under the Annuity Plan if deferred awards under the Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan and the Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan were included in  final earnings  as defined in the Annuity Plan.  The ABBOTT LABORATORIES SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN (this  Supplemental Plan ) clarified, restated and superseded the prior resolutions, was amended and restated in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Code Section 409A ) effective January 1, 2008 and is hereby amended and restated effective January 1, 2013, except as expressly provided herein.  
     
  1-2.                               The Supplemental Plan shall apply to employees of Abbott and its subsidiaries and affiliates existing as of the date of adoption of the Supplemental Plan or thereafter created or acquired.  (Abbott and each of such subsidiaries and affiliates are hereinafter referred to as an  employer  and collectively as the  employers ).  
     
  1-3.                               All benefits provided under the Supplemental Plan shall be provided from the general assets of the employers and not from any trust fund or other designated asset.  All participants in the Supplemental Plan shall be general creditors of the employers with no priority over other creditors.  
     
  1-4.                               The Supplemental Plan shall be administered by the Abbott Laboratories Employee Benefit Board of Review appointed and acting under the Annuity Plan ( Board of Review ).  Except as stated below, the Board of Review shall perform all powers and duties with respect to the Supplemental Plan, including the power to direct payment of benefits, allocate costs among employers, adopt amendments and determine questions of interpretation.  The Board of Directors of Abbott (the  Board of Directors ) shall have the sole authority to terminate the Supplemental Plan.  
     
  1-5.                               Notwithstanding anything in the Supplemental Plan to the contrary, any amounts under the Supplemental Plan that were earned and vested before January 1, 2005 (as determined in accordance with Code Section 409A) with respect to participants who retired before January 1, 2005 ( Grandfathered Amounts ) shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Supplemental Plan as administered and as in effect on December 31, 2004.  Amendments made to the Supplemental Plan pursuant to this amendment and restatement or otherwise shall not affect the Grandfathered Amounts unless expressly provided for in the amendment.  The terms and conditions applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto.  
     
  1    

1-6.                               Except as expressly provided in Section 9, the provisions of the Supplemental Plan as they were in effect immediately prior to the January 1, 2013 amendment and restatement shall continue to apply to any participant who retired or terminated employment prior to January 1, 2013.  
     
  Section 2     ERISA ANNUITY PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT  
     
  2-1.                               The benefits described in this Section 2 shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who retire, or terminate with a vested pension under that plan, on or after September 9, 1977.  
     
  2-2.                               Each Annuity Plan participant whose retirement or vested pension under that plan would otherwise be limited by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code, shall receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount, which, when added to his or her Annuity Plan pension (calculated as if such pension had been payable based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4), will equal the amount the participant would be entitled to under the Annuity Plan as in effect from time to time, calculated as if such pension had been payable based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, without regard to the limitations imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code.  
     
  Section 3     1986 TAX REFORM ACT SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT  
     
  3-1.                               The benefits described in this Section 3 shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who retire, or terminate with a vested pension under that plan, after December 31, 1988.  
     
  3-2.                               Each Annuity Plan participant shall receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount determined as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The supplemental pension shall be the difference, if any, between:  
     
  i.                                              the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section  and  
     
  ii.                                           the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan, calculated based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, (without regard to the limits imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code) if the participant s  final earnings , as defined in the Annuity Plan, had included compensation in excess of the limits imposed by Section 401(a)(17), Internal Revenue Code, and any  pre-tax contributions  made by the participant under the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental 401(k) Plan.  
     
  2    

Section 4     DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN ANNUITY PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT  
     
  4-1.                               The benefits described in this Section 4 shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who retire, or terminate with a vested pension, under that plan, on or after January 1, 2002 and who made a Deferral Election under the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ) with respect to any calendar month during the one hundred twenty consecutive calendar months immediately preceding retirement or termination of employment.  
     
  4-2.                               Each Annuity Plan participant shall receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount determined as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The supplemental pension shall be the difference, if any, between:  
     
  i.                                              the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section 2 and Section  and  
     
  ii.                                           the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan, calculated based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, (without regard to the limits imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code) if the participant s  base earnings , as defined in the Annuity Plan, included deferrals made under the Deferred Compensation Plan and any compensation in excess of the limits imposed by Section 401(a)(17), Internal Revenue Code.  
     
  Section 5     DEFERRED MIP ANNUITY PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT  
     
  5-1.                               The benefits described in this Section 5 shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who retire, or terminate with a vested pension, under that plan, on or after December 14, 1979 and who were awarded Management Incentive Plan awards for any calendar year during the ten consecutive calendar years ending with the year of retirement or termination of employment.  
     
  5-2.                               Each Annuity Plan participant shall receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount determined as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The supplemental pension shall be the difference, if any, between:  
     
  i.                                              the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section 2, Section 3, and Section  and  
     
  3    

ii.                                           the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan, calculated based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, (without regard to the limits imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code) if the participant s  final earnings , as defined in the Annuity Plan, were one-sixtieth of the sum of:  
     
  A.                                        the participant s total  basic earnings  (excluding any payments under the Management Incentive Plan or any Division Incentive Plan) received in the sixty consecutive calendar months for which his basic earnings (excluding any payments under the Management Incentive Plan or any Division Incentive Plan) were highest within the last one hundred twenty consecutive calendar months immediately preceding his retirement or termination of employment; and  
     
  B.                                        the amount of the participant s total awards under the Management Incentive Plan and any Division Incentive Plan (whether paid immediately or deferred) made for the five consecutive calendar years during the ten consecutive calendar years ending with the year of retirement or termination for which such amount is the greatest and (for participants granted Management Incentive Plan awards for less than five consecutive calendar years during such ten year period) which include all Management Incentive Plan awards granted for consecutive calendar years within such ten year period.  
     
  (b)                                     That portion of any Management Incentive Plan award which the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Abbott ( Committee ) has determined shall be excluded from the participant s  basic earnings  shall be excluded from the calculation of  final earnings  for purposes of this subsection 5-2.   Final earnings  for purposes of this subsection 5-2 shall include any compensation in excess of the limits imposed by Section 401(a)(17), Internal Revenue Code.  
     
  (c)                                      In the event the period described in subsection 5-2(a)(ii)(B) is the final five calendar years of employment and a Management Incentive Plan award is made to the participant subsequent to retirement for the participant s final calendar year of employment, the supplemental pension shall be adjusted by adding such new award and subtracting a portion of the earliest Management Incentive Plan award included in the calculation, from the amount determined under subsection 5-2(a)(ii)(B).  The portion subtracted shall be equal to that portion of the participant s final calendar year of employment during which the participant was employed by Abbott.  
     
  4    

Section 6     CORPORATE OFFICER ANNUITY PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT  
     
  6-1.                               The benefits described in this Section 6 shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who are corporate officers of Abbott as of September 30, 1993 or who become corporate officers thereafter, and who retire, or terminate with a vested pension under that plan on or after September 30, 1993.  The term  corporate officer  for purposes of this Supplemental Plan shall mean an individual elected an officer of Abbott by its Board of Directors (or designated as such for purposes of this Section 6 by the Compensation Committee), but shall not include assistant officers.  
     
  6-2.                               Subject to the limitations and adjustments described below, each participant described in subsection 6-1 shall receive a monthly supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan commencing on the date determined in accordance with subsection 8-2 and payable as a life annuity, equal to 6/10 of 1 percent (.006) of the participant s final earnings (as determined under subsection 5-2) for each of the first twenty years of the participant s benefit service (as defined in the Annuity Plan) occurring after the participant s attainment of age 35.  
     
  6-3.                               In no event shall the sum of (a) the participant s aggregate percentage of final earnings calculated under subsection 6-2 and (b) of the participant s aggregate percentage of final earnings calculated under subsection 5-1 of the Annuity Plan, excluding 5-1(a)(ii)(B), exceed the maximum aggregate percentage of final earnings allowed under subsection 5-1 (also excluding 5-1(a)(ii)(B)) of the Annuity Plan (without regard to any limits imposed by the Internal Revenue Code), as in effect on the date of the participant s retirement or termination.  In the event the limitation described in this subsection 6-3 would be exceeded for any participant, the participant s aggregate percentage calculated under subsection 6-2 shall be reduced until the limit is not exceeded.  
     
  6-4.                               Benefit service occurring between the date a participant ceases to be a corporate officer of Abbott and the date the participant again becomes a corporate officer of Abbott shall be disregarded in calculating the participant s aggregate percentage under subsection 6-2.  
     
  6-5.                               Any supplemental pension otherwise due a participant under this Section 6 shall be reduced by the amount (if any) by which:  
     
  (a)                                     the hypothetical benefits that would be payable to such participant under the Annuity Plan, based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, and this Supplemental Plan exceeds  
     
  (b)                                     the hypothetical maximum benefit that would be payable to the participant under the Annuity Plan, calculated based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, (without regard to the limits imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code) based on the participant s final earnings (as determined under subsection 5-2), if the participant had accrued the maximum benefit service recognized by the Annuity Plan.  
     
  5    

6-6.                               Any supplemental pension due a participant under this Section 6 shall be actuarially adjusted as provided in the Annuity Plan to reflect the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 and the participant s age at commencement of the pension as provided in Section 7.  
     
  Section 7     CORPORATE OFFICER ANNUITY PLAN  SUPPLEMENTAL EARLY RETIREMENT BENEFIT  
     
  7-1.                               The benefits described in this Section 7 shall apply to all persons described in subsection 6-1.  
     
  7-2.                               The supplemental pension due under Sections 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 to each participant described in subsection 7-1 shall be reduced in accordance with the rules provided in subsections 5-3 and 5-6 of the Annuity Plan for each month by which its commencement date precedes the last day of the month in which the participant will attain age 60.  No reduction will be made for the period between the last day of the months the participant will attain age 60 and age 62.  
     
  7-3.                               Each participant described in subsection 7-1 shall receive a monthly supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan equal to any hypothetical reduction made in such participant s Annuity Plan pension in accordance with the rules provided in subsections 5-3 or 5-6 of the Annuity Plan for the period between the last day of the months the participant will attain age 60 and age 62, calculated as if the participant had commenced receipt of the participant s Annuity Plan pension on the same date on which the participant commences receipt of the participant s supplemental pension based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4.  
     
  Section 8     MISCELLANEOUS  
     
  8-1.                               For purposes of this Supplemental Plan, the term  Management Incentive Plan  shall mean the Abbott Laboratories 1971 Management Incentive Plan, the Abbott Laboratories 1981 Management Incentive Plan and all successor plans to those plans.  
     
  8-2.                               The monthly vested supplemental pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 shall commence to be paid to the participant or his or her beneficiary on the last day of the month following the month in which:  
     
  (a)                                     For the participant hired before 2004, the later of the date on which such participant attains age 50 and the date such participant s employment is terminated; or  
     
  (b)                                     For the participant hired after 2003, the later of the date on which such participant attains age 55 and the date such participant s employment is terminated.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of subsection 8-2, any participant eligible to make an election under Section 9 may make such election with respect to any accruals for services performed in the year following the year such election is made.  
     
  6    

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of subsection 8-2, in the event that the present value of participant s supplemental pension under Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 does not exceed in the aggregate $25,000 as of the commencement date of the pension payable to such participant or his or her beneficiary, and payment of such supplemental pension has not been previously made under Section 9, the present value of such supplemental pension shall be paid to such participant in a lump-sum on such commencement date.  
     
  8-3.                               Except as otherwise specifically provided, payment of the monthly vested supplemental pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 shall be made to a participant as follows:  
     
  (a)                                      Life Annuity   .  A participant who is not legally married on the date as of which such payments commence shall receive a monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit in accordance with the plan payable on a life annuity basis, with the last payment to be made for the month in which his or her death occurs.  
     
  (b)                                      50% Joint and Survivor Annuity   .  A participant who is legally married on the date as of which such payments commence shall receive a 50% joint and survivor annuity which is actuarially equivalent to the amount of monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit otherwise payable to him or her in accordance with the plan on a life annuity basis. Such joint and survivor annuity shall consist of a reduced monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit continuing during the participant s lifetime, and if the participant s spouse is living at the date of the participant s death, payment of one-half of such reduced monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit to such spouse until the spouse s death occurs, with the last payment to be made for the month of the death of the last to die of the participant and his or her spouse. The joint and survivor annuity payable hereunder to or with respect to a participant who retires on a late retirement date shall be computed as if such participant had retired on his or her normal retirement date using for the age of his or her spouse as of his or her late retirement date, that spouse s age as of his or her normal retirement date.  
     
  8-4.                               In lieu of the form and amount of supplemental pension benefit specified in subsection 8-3, a participant may elect, prior to commencement, a supplemental pension benefit, which is actuarially equivalent to the form of payment specified in subsection 8-3(a), in the annuity forms permitted by the Board of Review, provided that the scheduled date for the first annuity payment is not changed as a result of such election.  For purposes of this provision, the term  actuarially equivalent  shall have the meaning provided by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(A), applying reasonable actuarial methods and assumptions, which must be the same for each annuity payment option and otherwise comply with the rules provided by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(D).  
     
  An election under this subsection 8-4 must be in writing, signed by the participant, and filed with the Board of Review at such time and in such manner as the Board of Review shall determine; and will be effective only if the participant s spouse, if any, consents to the election in writing, and such consent acknowledges the effect of the election and is witnessed by a plan representative or a notary public. In any case where a participant elects an optional form of benefit,  
     
  7    

the option shall be designed so that more than 50 percent of the actuarial reserve required to provide the participant s monthly vested supplemental pension benefit in the normal form will be applied to provide the participant s benefits under the option during the period of the participant s life expectancy. Payment of an optional form of benefit will commence no later than the date on which the participant s monthly supplemental pension benefit would otherwise commence. An election under this subs 8-4 may not be changed after payment of the participant s supplemental pension benefit has commenced.  
     
  8-5.                               Notwithstanding any other provision of this Supplemental Plan, if a participant terminates employment within two (2) years following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the present value of his or her supplemental pension under Sections 2, 3, 4 and 5, but excluding any amounts with respect to which an election under Section 9 has been made, whether or not then payable or vested) shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum, calculated using reasonable actuarial assumptions and methods, within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment; provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change in control event , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5).  The supplemental pension under Section 2 shall be computed using as the applicable limit under Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code, such limit as is in  effect on the termination date and based on the assumption that the participant will receive his or her supplemental pension in the form of a straight life annuity with no ancillary benefits.  The present values of the supplemental pensions under Sections 2, 3, 4 and 5 shall be computed as of the date of payment using an interest rate equal to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation interest rate applicable to an immediate annuity, as in effect on the date of payment.  
     
  8-6.                               For purposes of subsection 8-5, a  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  
     
  (a)                                     the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  
     
  (b)                                     the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of Abbott) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by Abbott s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
     
  (c)                                      the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of Abbott or any direct or indirect subsidiary of Abbott with any other corporation or other entity,  
     
  8    

other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of Abbott, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if Abbott or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of Abbott outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any subsidiary of Abbott, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of Abbott or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Abbott (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (d)                                     the date the shareholders of Abbott approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of Abbott or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets, other than a sale or disposition by Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by shareholders of Abbott, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any subsidiary of Abbott, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of Abbott immediately prior to such sale.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of Abbott immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of Abbott immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  For purposes of this Supplemental Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) Abbott or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the  
     
  9    

shareholders of Abbott in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of Abbott.  
     
  8-7.                               POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  
     
  (a)                                     Abbott enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  
     
  (b)                                     Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  
     
  (c)                                      Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of Abbott or the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates).  
     
  (d)                                     The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  
     
  8-8.                               The provisions of subsections 8-5, 8-6, 8-7 and this subsection 8-8 may not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Supplemental Plan, (i) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control.  
     
  8-9.                               All benefits due under this Supplemental Plan shall be paid by Abbott and Abbott shall be reimbursed for such payments by the employee s employer.  In the event the employee is employed by more than one employer, each employer shall reimburse Abbott in proportion to the period of time the employee was employed by such employer, as determined by the Board of Review in its sole discretion.  
     
  8-10.                        The benefits under the Supplemental Plan are not in any way subject to the debts or other obligations of the persons entitled to benefits and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned.  
     
  10    

8-11.                        Nothing contained in this Supplemental Plan shall confer on any employee the right to be retained in the employ of Abbott or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.  
     
  8-12.                        Upon adoption of this Supplemental Plan, the prior resolutions shall be deemed rescinded.  
     
  8-13.                        A participant shall not become vested in the participant s supplemental pension under Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 until the participant has attained sixty (60) months of vesting service.  For purposes of the Supplemental Plan, beginning January 1, 1987, a participant shall be entitled to 1/12  th   of a year of vesting service for each calendar month (or portion thereof) during which the participant is employed by an employer; provided, however, that a participant employed by an employer on December 31, 1986 shall receive the greater of vesting service calculated in accordance with the terms of the Annuity Plan in effect on December 31, 1986 or vesting service calculated in accordance with the rule immediately above, for service with an employer after 1986.  The payments required by Section 8 or Section 9 of the Supplemental Plan shall, in each case, relate only to the vested portion of a participant s supplemental pension.  
     
  8-14.                        To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Supplemental Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Supplemental Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Supplemental Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, a participant shall not be considered to have terminated employment with Abbott or any employer hereunder for purposes of the Supplemental Plan and no payments shall be due under Supplemental Plan which are payable upon the participant s termination of employment unless the participant would be considered to have incurred a  separation from service  from Abbott within the meaning of Section 409A.  To the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to the Supplemental Plan during the six-month period immediately following the participant s termination of employment shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following the participant s termination of employment (or upon the participant s death, if earlier), plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the applicable  Federal short-term rate  (as defined in Section 1274(d) of the Code) for the month in which such termination of employment occurs (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant under subsection 9.10), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  With respect to expenses eligible for reimbursement under the terms of the Supplemental Plan, (i) the amount of such expenses eligible for reimbursement in any taxable year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement in another taxable year and (ii) any reimbursements of such expenses shall be made no later than the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the related expenses were incurred, except, in each case, to the extent that the right to reimbursement does not provide for a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  
     
  8-15.                        In accordance with Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), distributions shall be made to an individual (other than to the participant) pursuant to the terms of a  domestic relations order  (as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 414(p)(1)(B)), as determined and  
     
  11    

administered by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Abbott or his or her delegate, provided, that such order (a) does not require the plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option not otherwise provided under the plan, (b) does not require the plan to provide increased benefits, and (c) does not require the payment of benefits to an alternate payee which are required to be paid to another alternate payee under another order.  
     
  Section 9     ALTERNATE PAYMENT OF SUPPLEMENTAL PENSIONS  
     
  9-1.                               A participant who is actively employed by Abbott as a corporate officer as of December 31 of his or her first year as a corporate officer shall be entitled to receive payment of the present value of the vested supplemental pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 which accrues with respect to the year and shall elect to receive such payment by either of the following methods: (a) current payment in cash directly to the participant, or (b) current payment of a portion of such present value in cash for the participant directly to a Grantor Trust established by the participant, determined to be substantially similar to the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit B, and current payment of the balance of such present value in cash paid directly to or withheld on behalf of the participant equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes owed with respect to the gross payment (as determined in accordance with subsection 9-10). The payment of any amount provided under this subsection 9-1 shall be made to the Grantor Trust established by the participant within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the year following the year in which such present value is accrued.  
     
  9-2.                               For each year subsequent to the year in which a participant becomes a corporate officer, if the present value of a participant s vested and accrued supplemental pension has been paid to the participant (including amounts paid to the participant s Grantor Trust) pursuant to subsection 9-1 (either as in effect prior to January 1, 2005 that applied to corporate officers with a present value in excess of $100,000, or as currently in effect for all corporate officers who are participants as of the applicable December 31) then, with respect to each subsequent year of active participation, as of that December 31, a participant shall be entitled to a payment in an amount equal to (i) the present value (as of that December 31) of the participant s vested supplemental pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, less (ii) the current value (as of that December 31) of the payments previously made to the participant under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 (if any).  Each year a participant who is a corporate officer may elect to receive payment of the amounts described in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above for the year by either of the following methods: (a) current payment in cash directly to the participant, or (b) current payment of such amount in cash for the participant directly to a Grantor Trust established by the participant (less the aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes paid to or withheld on behalf of the participant (as determined in accordance with subsection 9-10).  The payment of any amount provided under this subsection 9-2 shall be made to the Grantor Trust established by the participant within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the year following the year in which such present value is accrued.  No payments shall be made under this subsection 9-2 as of any December 31 after the calendar year in which the participant retires or otherwise terminates employment with Abbott.  
     
  9-3.                               Present values for the purposes of subsections 9-1 and 9-2 shall be determined using reasonable actuarial assumptions specified for this purpose by Abbott and consistently  
     
  12    

applied in accordance with the requirements of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(D).  The  current value  of the payments previously made to a participant under subsection 9-2 means the aggregate amount of such payments, with interest thereon (at the rate specified in subsection 9-7).  
     
  9-4.                               Abbott, as the administrator of the participant s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to the participant from the income of such Grantor Trust an amount sufficient to pay the taxes on the Grantor Trust earnings for such year, to the extent a sufficient sum of money has not been paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant pursuant to subsection 9-8.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with subsection 9-10.  
     
  9-5.                               Except as provided in subsection 9-9, a participant shall be deemed to have irrevocably waived and shall be foreclosed from any right to receive any supplemental pension benefits on that portion of the supplemental pension that the participant elects to be paid in cash under subsection 9-1 or 9-2.  A participant, who has elected to receive a payment under subsection 9-1 or 9-2 to a Grantor Trust, must establish such trust in a form which Abbott determines to be substantially similar to the trust attached to this Supplemental Plan as Exhibit B.  If a participant fails to make an election under subsection 9-1 or 9-2, or if a participant makes an election under subsection 9-1 or 9-2 to receive payment in a Grantor Trust but fails to establish a Grantor Trust, then payment shall be made in cash directly to the participant.  
     
  9-6.                               Abbott will establish and maintain a separate Supplemental Pension Account in the name of each participant, a separate After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account in the name of each participant, and a separate Tax Payment Account in the name of each participant.  The Supplemental Pension Account shall reflect any amounts:  (i) paid to, or withheld on behalf of, a participant to satisfy the aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes (including amounts paid to a participant s Grantor Trust) pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2; (ii) credited to such Account pursuant to subsection 9-7; and (iii) disbursed to a participant for supplemental pension benefits (or which would have been disbursed to a participant if the participant had not elected to receive a cash disbursement pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2).  The After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account shall also reflect such amounts but shall be maintained on an after-tax basis.  Prior to January 1, 2013, the Tax Payment Account reflected all amounts disbursed to the Grantor Trust or to a participant pursuant to subsections 9-4, 9-5 and 9-8, as such subsections were then in effect.  Effective as of January 1, 2013, the Tax Payment Account shall reflect any amounts disbursed to a participant for the payment of taxes pursuant to subsection 9-4.  The accounts established pursuant to this subsection 9-6 are for the convenience of the administration of the Plan and no trust relationship with respect to such accounts is intended or should be implied.  
     
  9-7.                               As of the end of each calendar year, a participant s Supplemental Pension Account shall be credited with interest calculated at the rate of eight percent (8%) per year.  Any amount so credited shall be referred to as a participant s  Interest Accrual.   The calculation of the Interest Accrual shall be based on the balance of the payments made pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2 and any Interest Accrual thereon from previous years.  As of the end of each calendar year a participant s After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account shall be credited with interest which shall be referred to as the After-Tax Interest Accrual.  The  After-Tax Interest Accrual  shall be an amount equal to the product of (a) the Interest Accrual credited to the participant s Supplemental Pension Account for such year multiplied by (b) one minus the aggregate of the federal, state, and  
     
  13    

local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate (determined in accordance with subsection 9-10).  
     
  9-8.                               In addition to any payment made to a participant for a calendar year pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2, a participant shall also be entitled to a payment (an  Interest Payment ) for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  Prior to January 1, 2013, the Interest Payment equaled the excess, if any, of the participant s Net Interest Accrual (as defined below) over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year (the  Pre-Amendment Amount ) and was paid to the participant s Grantor Trust within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  Effective as of January 1, 2013, the Interest Payment shall equal the excess of the gross amount of the participant s Interest Accrual (as defined in subsection 9-7), over the net income of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year, as adjusted by the amounts described in Schedule A, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  A portion of such Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust (i.e., the Pre-Amendment Amount), shall be deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the Participant; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust exceeds the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with subsection 9-4.  A participant s Net Interest Accrual for a year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest Accrual credited to the participant s After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account for that year in accordance with subsection 9-7.  No payments shall be made under this subsection 9-8 for any year following the year in which the participant dies, retires or otherwise terminates employment with Abbott.  
     
  9-9.                               In addition and notwithstanding the payments made to a participant s Grantor Trust under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 and subject only to the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b), Abbott shall make the monthly vested supplemental pension payments that would have been payable to the participant had no payments been made to the participant s Grantor Trust under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 in the form provided by subsection 8-3.  The monthly vested supplemental pension payments hereunder shall commence on the first business day of February following the sixth anniversary of the participant s termination of employment and ending with the month of the participant s (or surviving spouse s) death.  By way of example, (i) if a participant terminated employment on June 1, 2008, the commencement date would be the first business day in February, 2015 and (ii) if a participant terminated employment on January 15, 2008, the commencement date would be the first business day in February, 2014.  For purposes of determining the commencement date under this subsection 9-9, a participant who retired prior to January 1, 2009 but after December 31, 2004 shall be deemed to have terminated employment on March 1, 2008.  Payments under this subsection 9-9 shall be made by the employers (in such proportions as Abbott shall designate) directly from their general corporate assets.  Payment of the annuity required by this subsection 9-9 may be deferred by Abbott in compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b).  Any election to defer payment hereunder shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the election is made; shall be made not less than 12 months before the annuity commencement date; and shall require payment to be deferred for a period of no less than five years from such annuity commencement date.  
     
  14    

9-10.                        For purposes of this Supplemental Plan, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal individual income tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under this Supplemental Plan is to be made; state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s residence in the calendar year for which such a calculation is to be made; and a participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax in effect in the calendar year for which such a calculation is to be made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses.  Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or desirable, to pay, or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax, attributable to any amounts payable by it under the Supplemental Plan, and may require payment or indemnification from the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  
     
  9-11.                        Each participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit B.  
     
  9-12.                        Notwithstanding anything contained in the Supplemental Plan to the contrary, effective as of January 1, 2005, (a) with respect to each participant who is actively employed by Abbott as a corporate officer, the Grantor Trust funding threshold of $100,000 formerly referenced in subsections 8-2, 9-1 and 9-2 of the Plan shall no longer be applied or have any force or effect and (b) the Grantor Trusts established by the participants under the Supplemental Plan shall be funded in accordance with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  
     
  9-13.                        Notwithstanding anything contained in the Supplemental Plan to the contrary, pursuant to Q A-20 of Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 (the  Notice ), Abbott shall cause the present value of accrued benefits under the Supplemental Plan for the periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2005 for each participant who has made a Grantor Trust election under Section 9-1, to the extent not previously paid to a Grantor Trust established by the participant, to be deposited in such Grantor Trust on or prior to December 31, 2005.  Such payment is intended to result in a partial termination of participation in the Supplemental Plan as permitted by the Notice.  Each participant who has established a Grantor Trust and who receives such payment shall include the full amount of such payment to the Grantor Trust in the participant s income in 2005.  
     
  9-14.                        Notwithstanding anything contained in the Supplemental Plan to the contrary, with respect to each participant who (a) has made a Grantor Trust election under Section 9-1 and (b) first became a corporate officer in 2006, 2007 or 2008, Abbott shall cause such participant s  Pre-Officer Benefit (as defined below) to be deposited in the Grantor Trust established by the participant in 2009, to the extent not previously subject to an election under Section 9-1 and paid to such Grantor Trust.  For purposes of the Supplemental Plan,  Pre-Officer Benefit  means the present value of such participant s accrued supplemental pension benefits which (i) accrued prior to 2007 in the case of a participant who first became a corporate officer in 2006; (ii) accrued prior to 2008 in the case of a participant who first became a corporate officer in 2007; or (iii) accrued prior to 2009 in the case of a participant who first became a corporate officer in 2008.  The  
     
  15    

foregoing amendment is made in accordance with and pursuant to Q A-19(c) of the Notice and the guidance extending the same for the transition period ending on December 31, 2008  For the avoidance of doubt, the amounts deposited in the participant s Grantor Trusts hereunder shall no longer be payable pursuant to subsection 8-2, as such amounts will have been distributed to the respective participants pursuant to the transition relief described in the preceding sentence.  
     
  16    

Exhibit A   
     
   ABBOTT LABORATORIES SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN   
     
  [Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan, as amended, as filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 9, 2005.]  
     
  1    

Exhibit B   
     
   SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT  GRANTOR TRUST   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT, made this              day of                                              , 20        , by and between                                                              , (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company, located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  
     
  WITNESSETH THAT:  
     
  WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  
     
   ARTICLE I  Introduction   
     
  I-1                                     Name   .  This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to as the                                                                 Supplemental Benefit Grantor Trust.   
     
  I-2                                     The Trust Fund   .  The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  
     
  I-3                                     Status of the Trust   .  The trust shall be irrevocable.  The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  
     
  I-4                                     The Administrator   .  Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below.  Abbott will certify to the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the administrator.  The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  
     
  I-5                                     Acceptance   .  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.  
     
   ARTICLE II  Distribution of the Trust Fund   
     
  II-1                                Supplemental Pension Account   .  The administrator shall maintain a  supplemental pension account  under the trust.  As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall  
     
  1    

charge the account with all distributions made from the account during that year; and credit the account with its share of trust income and realized gains and charge the account with its share of trust expenses and realized losses for the year.  
     
  II-2                                Distributions Prior to the Grantor s Death   .  Principal and accumulated income shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s retirement or other termination of employment with Abbott or a subsidiary of Abbott (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the trust fund for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in the trust.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date.  Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the amounts from time to time credited to the supplemental pension account to the grantor, if then living, in the same manner, at the same time and over the same period as the pension payable to the grantor under Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan.  
     
  II-3                                Distributions After the Grantor s Death   .  The grantor, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof shall be distributed upon the grantor s death.  The grantor may direct that such amounts be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust (a  Trust ) for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in the same manner, at the same time and over the same period as the pension payable to the grantor s surviving spouse under the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan.  If the grantor directs the same method of distribution as the pension payable to the surviving spouse under the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs the same method of distribution as the pension payable to the surviving spouse under the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan to a Trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such Trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a Trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such Trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.   
     
  2    

II-4                                Facility of Payment   .  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  
     
  II-5                                Perpetuities   .  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  
     
   ARTICLE III  Management of the Trust Fund   
     
  III-1                           General Powers   .  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  
     
  (a)                                     Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  
     
  (b)                                     To invest and reinvest the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government and in any mutual funds, common trust funds or collective investment funds which invest solely in such obligations, provided that to the extent practicable no more than Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) shall be invested in such mutual funds, common trust funds or collective investment funds at any time; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  
     
  (c)                                      To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, in amounts not in excess of those reasonably necessary to make distributions from the trust.  
     
  (d)                                     To borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  
     
  (e)                                      To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  
     
  (f)                                       To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  
     
  3    

(g)                                      To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  
     
  (h)                                     To give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  
     
  (i)                                         To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  
     
  (j)                                        To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  
     
  (k)                                     To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee considers necessary for its protection.  
     
  (l)                                         To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity, without liability for any loss that may result.  
     
  (m)                                 Upon the prior written consent of the administrator, to appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  
     
  (n)                                     To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  
     
  (o)                                     To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.  
     
  (p)                                     To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  
     
  III-2                           Principal and Income   .  Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust.  The grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  
     
  4    

III-3                           Statements   .  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period.  
     
  III-4                           Compensation and Expenses   .  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  
     
   ARTICLE IV  General Provisions   
     
  IV-1                            Interests Not Transferable   .  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  
     
  IV-2                            Disagreements as to Acts   .  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any court.  
     
  IV-3                            Trustee s Obligations   .  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or distribution.  The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement; and the trustee shall not be liable for any action taken because of the specific direction of the administrator.  
     
  IV-4                            Good Faith Actions   .  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee.  
     
  IV-5                            Waiver of Notice   .  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  IV-6                            Controlling Law   .  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  
     
  IV-7                            Successors   .  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  
     
  5    

ARTICLE V  Changes in Trustee   
     
  V-1                                 Resignation or Removal of Trustee   .  The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty days  advance notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  
     
  V-2                                 Appointment of Successor Trustee   .  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement.  A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  
     
  V-3                                 Duties of Resigning or Removed Trustee and of Successor Trustee   .  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account.  Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee.  With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  
     
   ARTICLE VI  Amendment and Termination   
     
  VI-1                            Amendment   .  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  
     
  (b)                                     This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.  
     
  VI-2                            Termination   .  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II.  
     
  *     *     *  
     
  6    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor           

The Northern Trust   Company, as Trustee           

By       

Its       

7    

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.5>
 4
 a2212523zex-10_5.htm
 EX-10.5

Exhibit 10.5   
     
   1986  ABBOTT LABORATORIES  MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN  (as amended and restated effective January 1, 2013)   
     
   SECTION 1     INTRODUCTION   
     
  1.1                                   BACKGROUND AND PURPOSES.  This 1986 ABBOTT LABORATORIES MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN (the  Plan ) is a successor Plan to the 1961, 1971 and 1981 Management Incentive Plans (the  Predecessor Plans ).  This Plan is being established by ABBOTT LABORATORIES ( Abbott ) for the following purposes:  
     
  (a)                                     To provide greater incentive for participants in the Plan to attain and maintain the highest standards of managerial performance by rewarding them for services rendered with compensation, in addition to their base salaries, in proportion to the success of Abbott and to the participants  respective contribution to such success; and  
     
  (b)                                     To attract and retain in the employ of Abbott and its subsidiaries persons of outstanding competence.  
     
  1.2                                   EFFECTIVE DATE AND FISCAL YEAR.  The Plan became effective as of January 1, 1986, was subsequently amended and restated as of January 1, 2008, in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Code Section 409A ), and is hereby amended and restated as of January 1, 2013.  Except as expressly provided herein, the provisions of the Plan as they were in effect immediately prior to the January 1, 2013 amendment and restatement shall continue to apply to any participant who retired or terminated employment prior to January 1, 2013.  The term  fiscal year,  as used in this Plan, means the fiscal period from time to time employed by Abbott for the purpose of reporting earnings to shareholders.  
     
  1.3                                   ADMINISTRATION.  The Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) appointed by the Board of Directors of Abbott (the  Board of Directors ).  
     
  1.4                                   GRANDFATHERED AMOUNTS.  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, any amounts under the Plan that were earned and vested before January 1, 2005 (as determined in accordance with Code Section 409A) with respect to participants who retired before January 1, 2005 ( Grandfathered Amounts ) shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as administered and as in effect on December 31, 2004.  Amendments made to the Plan pursuant to this amendment and restatement or otherwise shall not affect the Grandfathered Amounts unless expressly provided for in the amendment.  The terms and conditions applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto.  

SECTION 2  ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION   
     
  2.1                                   PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR PARTICIPATION.  Participation in the Plan will be limited to those Officers and managerial employees of Abbott and its subsidiaries who, from time to time, shall be selected as participants by the Committee.  
     
  2.2                                   PARTICIPANTS.  The term  participant,  as used in the Plan, shall include both active participants and inactive participants.  
     
  2.3                                   ACTIVE PARTICIPANTS.  For each fiscal year, there shall be a group of active participants which, except as provided below, shall not exceed forty-five persons and shall consist of those persons eligible for participation who shall have been designated as active participants and notified of that fact by the Committee.  If, as a result of the growth of Abbott and its subsidiaries or changes in Abbott s organization, the Board of Directors deems it appropriate, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, from time to time, increase the number of persons who may be designated as active participants for any fiscal year beyond the limit of forty-five persons provided for above.  Selection as an active participant for any fiscal year shall not confer upon any person a right to be an active participant in any subsequent fiscal year, nor shall it confer upon him the right to receive any allocation under the Plan, other than amounts allocated to him by the Committee pursuant to the Plan, and all such allocations shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan.  
     
  2.4                                   INACTIVE PARTICIPANTS.  Inactive participants shall consist of those persons, including beneficiaries of deceased participants, if any, for whom an allocation shall have been made for a prior fiscal year under this Plan or a Predecessor Plan, the payment of which was deferred and remains unpaid.  Status as an inactive participant shall not preclude a person from also being an active participant during any fiscal year.  
     
   SECTION 3  MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN FUND   
     
  3.1                                   BASE FOR MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN FUND.  The  base earnings  for determining whether any portion of consolidated net income for any fiscal year may be allocated to the Management Incentive Plan Fund for such year shall be that amount of consolidated net income (as defined in subsection 3.2) which is equal to 15 percent of the Abbott Common Shareholder s Equity for such fiscal year. For this purpose,  Abbott Common Shareholders  Equity  for any fiscal year shall mean the Shareholders  Investment, as reflected in the consolidated balance sheet of Abbott as of the close of the next preceding fiscal year, plus or minus such adjustments thereof as may be determined by the Committee in order to reflect:  
     
  (a)                                     The existence, issuance, sale, exchange, conversion or retirement of any securities, other than common shares, of Abbott (whether involving preferred stock, debt, convertible preferred stock or convertible debt securities); and  
     
  2    

(b)                                     The issuance or retirement of any common shares or any changes in accounting methods or period adopted by Abbott since the close of such next preceding fiscal year.  
     
  Any adjustments to be made in accordance with (a) and (b) above in determining Abbott Common Shareholders  Equity for any fiscal year shall be determined by the Committee after consultation with Abbott s independent auditors, and any determination made by the Committee after such consultation shall be conclusive upon all persons.  
     
  3.2                                   CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME.  For the purposes of this Plan, for any fiscal year or period, the  consolidated net income  shall be the consolidated net income of Abbott and its subsidiaries, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied, after provision for any interest accrued with respect to such period on account of deferred payments under this Plan or a Predecessor Plan, but before allowances for any amount to be allocated to the Management Incentive Plan Fund, both net of applicable income taxes, and after such adjustments for the following, as may be determined by the Committee after consultation with Abbott s independent auditors (all net of applicable income taxes):  
     
  (a)                                     The exclusion of any charges for amortization or goodwill arising out of acquisitions made for securities which, as a result of adjustments made in determining Abbott Common Shareholders  Equity pursuant to subsection 3.1, are treated as common share equivalents; and  
     
  (b)                                     The exclusion of any interest on debt securities which are convertible into common shares of Abbott and which shall have been considered as common share equivalents in determining Abbott Common Shareholders  Equity pursuant to subsection 3.1 hereof; and  
     
  (c)                                      The deduction of any dividend requirement for preferred shares which has not been considered as common share equivalents in determining Common Shareholders  Equity pursuant to subsection 3.1 hereof.  
     
  In the sole discretion of the Committee there shall also be excluded in the calculation of  consolidated net income  unusual gains and losses and the tax effects thereof, changes in generally accepted accounting principles and the tax effects thereof and extraordinary gains and losses.  
     
  3.3                                   DETERMINATION OF MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN AMOUNT FOR ANY YEAR.  For each fiscal year that consolidated net income exceeds base earnings, and as soon as practicable after ascertainment of that fact, the Committee shall determine a tentative amount as the Management Incentive Plan Amount for that year, which tentative amount shall not exceed the lesser of:  
     
  3    

(a)                                     an amount which, when treated as an expense currently deductible for income tax purposes in such year, would cause a 5 percent reduction in such year s excess of consolidated net income over the base earnings for such year; and  
     
  (b)                                     an amount which, when treated as an expense currently deductible for income tax purposes in such year, would cause a 1-1/2 percent reduction in such year s consolidated net income; and  
     
  (c)                                      an amount which equals 200 percent of the aggregate base salaries of all active participants for such year.  
     
  For purposes of the Plan  base salary  means the amount of salary paid to each active participant by Abbott and its subsidiaries for such year plus the includible portion (as described below) of any  Eligible Restricted Stock Award,  as defined in Section 5-2 of the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan and does not include bonuses, other awards or any other compensation of any kind.  The includible portion of a participant s Eligible Restricted Stock Award shall be the portion of the participant s Eligible Restricted Stock Award that is included in the participant s final earnings under the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan for such year.  Following determination of such tentative Management Incentive Plan Amount, the Committee shall report in writing the amount of such tentative amount to the Board of Directors. At the meeting of the Board of Directors coincident with or next following receipt by it of the Committee s determination, the Board of Directors shall have the power to approve or reduce, but not to increase, the tentative amount reported to it by the Committee.  The amount approved by the Board of Directors shall be the Management Incentive Plan Amount for such year.  
     
  3.4                                   THE MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN FUND.  The Management Incentive Plan Fund at any time shall consist of an amount equal to the aggregate of the Management Incentive Plan Amounts established pursuant to subsection 3.3 of this Plan for all fiscal years during which this Plan shall have been operative, plus the amounts established as Management Incentive Plan Amounts for any prior fiscal year pursuant to a Predecessor Plan, reduced by an amount equal to the aggregate of the amounts of awards which shall have been allocated to participants in accordance with this Plan or a Predecessor Plan, and awards, or any other compensation of any kind.  
     
   SECTION 4  ALLOCATION OF MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE FUND   
     
  4.1                                   ANNUAL ALLOCATION OF MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE FUND.  As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year, part or all of the amount then in the Management Incentive Plan Fund (including the Management Incentive Plan Amount for such fiscal year) will be allocated by the Committee among active participants in the Plan for such fiscal year, having due regard for the purposes for which the Plan was established, in the following manner and order:  
     
  4    

(a)                                     First, if the Chairman of the Board of Abbott shall be an active participant for such year, the members of the Committee, other than the Chairman of the Board, shall determine the amount, if any, to be allocated to the Chairman of the Board from such Fund for such year; and  
     
  (b)                                     Next, all or a part of the balance of such Fund may be allocated among the active participants (other than the Chairman of the Board) for such year, in such amounts and proportions as the Committee shall determine provided, however, that the amount allocated to any active participant for any year shall not exceed 200 percent of such participant s base salary for that year.  
     
  4.2                                   COMMITTEE S DISCRETION IN ALLOCATIONS.  In making any allocations in accordance with subsection 4.1 for any year, the discretion of the Committee shall be absolute, and no active participants for any year, by reason of their designation as such, shall be entitled to any particular amounts or any amount whatsoever.  
     
   SECTION 5  PAYMENT OF AMOUNTS ALLOCATED TO PARTICIPANTS   
     
  5.1                                   TIME OF PAYMENT.  For fiscal years beginning after December 31, 1988, a participant shall direct the payment or deferral of an allocation made to him pursuant to subsection 4.1 (a  Plan Award ) at the time specified in subsection 5.2 (subject to such conditions relating to the right of the participant to receive payment of such amount as established by the Committee) by one or more of the following methods:  
     
  (a)                                     current payment in cash to the participant, which payment shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A);  
     
  (b)                                     current payment of a portion in cash and deposited to a grantor trust (the  Grantor Trust ) established by the participant (in a form which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust in Exhibit B) and the balance withheld on behalf of the participant to satisfy the participant s aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes (determined in accordance with subsections 6.6 and 6.7); provided that all payments or contributions to the Grantor Trust and participant contemplated by this subsection 5.1(b) shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A); or  
     
  (c)                                      deferral of payment until such time and in such manner as determined in accordance with subsection 5.14.  
     
  5    

5.2                                   TIME OF ELECTION.  
     
  (a)                                     A participant must make the election described in subsection 5.1 by filing it with the Committee or its delegate on or before December 31 of the year prior to the fiscal year during which the incentive compensation is earned under the Plan.  
     
  (b)                                     Notwithstanding the timing requirements described above, an individual who newly becomes eligible to participate in the Plan by being designated as a participant under subsection 2.1 (and who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) may make an initial deferral election as described in subsection 5.1 by filing it with the Committee or its delegate within the thirty (30) day period immediately following the date he or she first is designated as participant, provided that the compensation deferred pursuant to such election relates solely to services performed after the date of such election.  For this purpose, an election shall be deemed to apply to compensation paid for services performed after the election if the election applies to no more than the amount prescribed by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(a)(7)(i).  
     
  (c)                                      Any election described in subsection 5.1 shall be irrevocable for the fiscal year to which the election applies.  
     
  5.3                                   SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.  The Committee shall establish accounts for participants who have made elections pursuant to subsection 5.1(b) or 5.1(c) as follows.  
     
  (a)                                     The Committee will maintain a  Deferred Account  in the name of each participant who has elected to defer payment of all or a portion of his or her Plan Award under subsection 5.1(c).  The Deferred Account shall consist of allocations deferred according to subsection 5.1(c) and any adjustments made in accordance with subsection 5.4.  
     
  (b)                                     The Committee will maintain two separate Accounts, a  Pre-Tax Account  and an  After-Tax Account,  in the name of each participant who has elected to have a portion of his or her Plan Award deposited in cash to a Grantor Trust according to subsection 5.1(b).  The Pre-Tax Account shall consist of the aggregate of all allocations contemplated by subsection 5.1(b), whether deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust or made in cash to the participant, and any adjustments made in accordance with subsection 5.5.  The After-Tax Account shall consist of after-tax allocations deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust in cash according to subsection 5.1(b) and any adjustments made in accordance with subsection 5.6.  
     
  6    

5.4                                   ADJUSTMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS.  As of the end of each fiscal year, each participant s Deferred Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, reduced by an amount equal to any distributions made to the participant during that year pursuant to subsections 5.14 or 5.15;  
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, increased by an amount equal to the Plan Award for that year that is deferred pursuant to subsection 5.1(c); and  
     
  (c)                                      FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the interest earned for that year according to subsection 5.7.  
     
  5.5                                   ADJUSTMENT OF PRE-TAX ACCOUNTS.  As of the end of each fiscal year, each participant s Pre-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant receives a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the participant if the aggregate amounts allocated according to subsection 5.1(b) had instead been deferred under subsection 5.1(c);  
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any Plan Award for that year that is withheld on behalf of the participant to satisfy the participant s aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes (including the amount deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust) according to subsection 5.1(b); and  
     
  (c)                                      FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the pre-tax interest earned for that year according to subsection 5.7(a) and (c).  
     
  5.6                                   ADJUSTMENT OF AFTER-TAX ACCOUNTS.  As of the end of each fiscal year, each participant s After-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant receives a benefit distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount calculated as provided in subsection 5.19 which represents the distribution for such year;  
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, increased by an amount equal to the Plan Award for that year that is deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust according to subsection 5.1(b); and  
     
  (c)                                      FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the after-tax interest earned for that year according to subsection 5.7(b) and (c).  
     
  7    

5.7                                   INTEREST ACCRUALS ON ACCOUNTS.  
     
  (a)                                     As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Deferred Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be credited with interest ( Interest ) at the following rate:  
     
  (i)                                         the average of the  prime rate  of interest published by the Wall Street Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the fiscal year;  
     
  (ii)                                      plus two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  
     
  (b)                                     As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest provided above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable federal, state and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate determined in accordance with subsections 6.6 and 6.7) (the  After-Tax Interest ).  
     
  (c)                                      This Interest and After-Tax Interest, as applicable, shall be credited on the conditions established by the Committee, provided that any award allocation shall be considered to have been made and credited to a participant s Account as of the first day of the fiscal year in which the award is made.  
     
  5.8                                   INTEREST PAYMENTS.  In addition to any Plan Award made to a participant for any fiscal year in accordance with subsection 5.1(b), Abbott shall also make a payment (an  Interest Payment ) with respect to each participant who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  Prior to January 1, 2013, the Interest Payment equaled the excess, if any, of the participant s Net Interest Accrual (as defined below) over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year (the  Pre-Amendment Amount ) and was paid to the participant s Grantor Trust within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  Effective as of January 1, 2013, the Interest Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the pre-tax Interest credited to the participant s Pre-Tax Account pursuant to subsection 5.5(c), over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year, as adjusted by the amounts described in Schedule A, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  A portion of such Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust (i.e., the Pre-Amendment Amount), shall be deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the Participant; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust exceeds the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with Section 6.9. A participant s Net Interest Accrual for the year is an amount equal to the After-Tax   
     
  8    

Interest credited to the participant s After-Tax Account for that year in accordance with subsection 5.7.  
     
  5.9                                   GRANTOR TRUST ASSETS.  Each participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of subsection 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit B.  
     
  5.10                            DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARIES.  Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth below, each participant, and after a participant s death, each primary beneficiary designated by a participant in accordance with the provisions of this subsection 5.10, shall have the right from time to time to designate a primary beneficiary or beneficiaries and, successive or contingent beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive unpaid amounts from the participant s Deferred Account under the Plan and the Predecessor Plans.  A beneficiary may be a natural person or persons or a fiduciary, such as a trustee of a trust or the legal representative of an estate.  Any such designation shall take effect upon the death of the participant or such beneficiary, as the case may be, or in the case of any fiduciary beneficiary, upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the Plan or a Predecessor Plan).  The conditions and limitations relating to the designation of beneficiaries are as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall have the right to designate a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the original participant or the next preceding primary beneficiary, as the case may be, shall have expressly so provided in writing; and  
     
  (b)                                     A fiduciary beneficiary shall designate as a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only those persons or other fiduciaries who are entitled to receive the amounts payable from the participant s account under the trust or estate of which it is a fiduciary.  
     
  Any beneficiary designation or grant of any power to any beneficiary under this subsection may be exercised only by an instrument in writing, executed by the person making the designation or granting such power and filed with the Secretary of Abbott during such person s lifetime or prior to the termination of a fiduciary s duties.  If a deceased participant or a deceased nonfiduciary beneficiary who had the right to designate a beneficiary as provided above dies without having designated a further beneficiary, or if no beneficiary designated as provided above is living or qualified and acting, the Committee, in its discretion, may direct distribution of the amount remaining from time to time to either:  
     
  (i)                                         any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the participant or the deceased   
     
  9    

beneficiary, as the case may be, and in such proportions as the Committee determines; or  
     
  (ii)                                      the legal representative of the estate of the deceased participant or deceased beneficiary as the case may be.  
     
  5.11                            STATUS OF BENEFICIARIES.  Following a participant s death, the participant s beneficiary or beneficiaries will be considered and treated as an inactive participant for all purposes of this Plan.  
     
  5.12                            NON-ASSIGNABILITY AND FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  Amounts payable to participants and their beneficiaries under the Plan are not in any way subject to their debts and other obligations, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned; provided that the preceding provisions of this subsection shall not be construed as restricting in any way a designation right granted to a beneficiary pursuant to the terms of subsection 5.10. When a participant or the beneficiary of a participant is under legal disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Committee may direct that payments shall be made to the participant s or beneficiary s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of the participant or beneficiary for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary, or the Committee may direct the payment or distribution for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary in any manner that the Committee determines.  
     
  5.13                            PAYER OF AMOUNTS ALLOCATED TO PARTICIPANTS.  Any amount allocated to a participant in the Plan and any interest credited thereto will be paid by the employer (or such employer s successor) by whom the participant was employed during the fiscal year for which any amount was allocated, and for that purpose, if a participant shall have been employed by two or more employers during any fiscal year the amount allocated under this Plan for that year shall be an obligation of each of the respective employers in proportion to the respective amounts of base salary paid by each of them in that fiscal year.  
     
  5.14                            MANNER OF PAYMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS.  Subject to subsection 5.15, a participant shall elect to receive payment of his Deferred Account in substantially equal annual installments over a minimum period of ten years, or a longer period, at the time of his deferral election under subsection 5.1(c).  Payment of a participant s Deferred Account shall commence on the first business day of January of the year following the year in which the participant incurs a termination of employment.  
     
  5.15                            PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or the provisions of any award made under the Plan, if a participant incurs a termination of employment with Abbott and its subsidiaries for any reason within two (2) years following the date of a Change in Control, provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change in control event , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with respect to a participant whose allocations under the Plan are deferred in accordance with subsection 5.1(c), the aggregate unpaid balance of the participant s  
     
  10    

Deferred Account shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment, and (b) with respect to a participant whose Plan Awards are made pursuant to subsection 5.1(b), (i) the aggregate of the participant s unpaid Plan Award under subsection 5.1(b) (if any) for the fiscal year in which the termination occurs and (ii) a pro rata portion of the unpaid Guaranteed Rate Payment under subsection 5.8 attributable to the portion of the year elapsed prior to the date of termination, shall be paid to such participant s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment.  
     
  5.16        CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  
     
  (a)                                     the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  
     
  (b)                                     the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of Abbott) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by Abbott s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
     
  (c)                                      the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of Abbott or any direct or indirect subsidiary of Abbott with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of Abbott, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if Abbott or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of Abbott outstanding immediately prior to such merger      or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the  
     
  11    

surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any subsidiary of Abbott, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of Abbott or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Abbott (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (d)                                     the date the shareholders of Abbott approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of Abbott or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets, other than a sale or disposition by Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by shareholders of Abbott, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any subsidiary of Abbott, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of Abbott immediately prior to such sale.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of Abbott immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of Abbott immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) Abbott or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of Abbott in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of Abbott.  
     
  5.17        POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c)  
     
  12    

or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  
     
  (a)                                     Abbott enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  
     
  (b)                                     Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  
     
  (c)                                      Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of Abbott or the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates).  
     
  (d)                                     The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  
     
  5.18        PROHIBITION AGAINST AMENDMENT.  The provisions of subsections 5.15, 5.16, 5.17 and this subsection 5.18 may not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Plan, (i) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control.  
     
  5.19        ADMINISTRATOR S CALCULATION OF GRANTOR TRUST DISTRIBUTIONS.  The Administrator shall calculate the amount to be distributed from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in which the participant is entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (i) the amount of the reduction determined in accordance with subsection 5.5(a), by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the      participant s After-Tax Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date.  
     
  13    

SECTION 6  MISCELLANEOUS   
     
  6.1          RULES.  The Committee may establish such rules and regulations as it may consider necessary or desirable for the effective and efficient administration of the Plan.  
     
  6.2          MANNER OF ACTION BY COMMITTEE.  A majority of the members of the Committee qualified to act on any particular question may act by meeting or by writing signed without meeting, and may execute any instrument or document required or delegate to one of its members authority to sign.  The Committee from time to time may delegate the performance of certain ministerial functions in connection with the Plan, such as the keeping of records, to such person or persons as the Committee may select. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, the costs of administration of the Plan will be paid by Abbott.  Any notice required to be given to, or any document required to be filed with the Committee, will be properly given or filed if mailed or delivered in writing to the Secretary of Abbott.  
     
  6.3          RELIANCE UPON ADVICE.  The Board of Directors and the Committee may rely upon any information or advice furnished to it by any Officer of Abbott or by Abbott s independent auditors, or other consultants, and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information or advice.  No member of the Board of Directors or the Committee shall be liable for any act or failure to act on their part, excepting only any acts done or omitted to be done in bad faith, nor shall they be liable for any act or failure to act of any other member.  
     
  6.4          TAXES.  Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or desirable, to pay or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax attributable to any amounts payable by it under the Plan, and may require payment or indemnification from the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  
     
  6.5          RIGHTS OF PARTICIPANTS.  Employment rights of participants with Abbott and its subsidiaries shall not be enlarged or affected by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant in the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan shall require Abbott or any subsidiary to segregate or earmark any assets, funds or property for the purpose of payment of any amounts which may have been deferred.  The Deferred Account, Pre-Tax Account and After-Tax Account with respect to any participant established pursuant to subsection 5.2 are for the convenience of the administration of the Plan and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied. Participant s rights shall be limited to payment to them at the time or times and in such amounts as are contemplated by the Plan.  Any decision made by the Board of Directors or the Committee, which is within the sole and uncontrolled discretion of either, shall be conclusive and binding upon the other and upon all other persons whomsoever.  
     
  6.6          EMPLOYMENT TAX ASSUMPTION.  For purposes of Sections 5 and 6, a participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made.  
     
  14    

6.7          INCOME TAX ASSUMPTIONS.  For purposes of Sections 5 and 6, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal income individual tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made, and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses.  
     
  6.8          CODE SECTION 409A.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all purposes of the Plan, a participant shall not be deemed to have had a termination of employment until the participant has incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under the Plan that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the rate specified in subsection 5.7 (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant under subsection 5.6), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  In addition, for purposes of the Plan, each amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  
     
  6.9          DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER.  In accordance with Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), distributions shall be made to an individual (other than to the participant) pursuant to the terms of a  domestic relations order  (as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 414(p)(1)(B)), as determined and administered by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Abbott or his or her delegate, provided, that such order (a) does not require the plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option not otherwise provided under the plan, (b) does not require the plan to provide increased benefits, and (c) does not require the payment of benefits to an alternate payee which are required to be paid to another alternate payee under another order.  
     
  6.10        GRANTOR TRUSTS.  Abbott, as the administrator of the participant s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to the participant from the income of such Grantor Trust an amount sufficient to pay the taxes on the Grantor Trust earnings for such year, to the extent a sufficient sum of money has not been paid to, or withheld on behalf of,      the participant pursuant to Section 5.8.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with Sections 6.6 and 6.7.  
     
  15    

SECTION 7     AMENDMENT, TERMINATION AND CHANGE OF  CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS   
     
  7.1          AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.  The Plan will be effective from its effective date until terminated by the Board of Directors. During the fifth year after the Plan s effective date and during every fifth year thereafter, the Committee may recommend to the Board of Directors whether the Plan should be amended or terminated.  The Board of Directors reserves the right to amend the Plan from time to time and to terminate the Plan at any time, except that no such amendment or any termination of the Plan shall reduce any fixed or contingent obligations which shall have arisen under the Plan prior to the date of such amendment or termination, or change the terms and conditions of payment of any allocation theretofore made without the consent of the participant concerned.  
     
  7.2          CHANGE OF CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS.  No change to the time or payment or the time of commencement of payment and any period over which payment shall be made shall be effected except in strict compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b) to the extent subject thereto.  
     
  16    

EXHIBIT A   
     
   1986 ABBOTT LABORATORIES MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN   
     
  [The 1986 Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan, as amended, as filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003.]  
     
  1    

EXHIBIT B   
     
   IRREVOCABLE GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT, made this            day of                         , 20    , by and between                                                of                       , Illinois (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  
     
  WITNESSETH THAT:  
     
  WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the 1986 Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time;  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  
     
   ARTICLE I             INTRODUCTION   
     
  I-1           NAME.  This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to as the                               20     Grantor Trust .  
     
  I-2           THE TRUST FUND.  The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  
     
  I-3           STATUS OF THE TRUST.  The trust shall be irrevocable.  The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  
     
  I-4           THE ADMINISTRATOR.  Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below.  Abbott will certify to the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the administrator.  The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  
     
  I-5           ACCEPTANCE.  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.  
     
   ARTICLE II     DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  II-1         SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.  The administrator shall maintain two separate accounts under the trust, a  rollout account  and a  deferred account.   Funds delivered to the trustee shall be allocated between the accounts by the trustee as directed by the administrator.  As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge each account with all distributions made from such account during that year; and credit each account with its share of income and  
     
  1    

realized gains and charge each account with its share of expenses and realized losses for the year.  The trustee shall not be required to make any separate investment of the trust fund for the accounts, and may administer and invest all funds delivered to it under the trust as one trust fund.  
     
  II-2         DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE ROLLOUT ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The trustee shall distribute principal and accumulated income credited to the rollout account to the grantor, if then living, at such times and in such amounts as the administrator shall direct.  
     
  II-3         DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE DEFERRED ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  Principal and accumulated income credited to the deferred account shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s retirement or other termination of employment with Abbott or a subsidiary of Abbott (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the deferred account for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in that account.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date. Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the amounts from time to time credited to the deferred account to the grantor, if then living, in a series of annual installments, with the amount of each installment computed by one of the following methods:  
     
  (a)           The amount of each installment shall be equal to the sum of: (i) the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs, divided by the number of years over which installments are to be distributed; plus (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year  (excluding the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs).  
     
  (b)           The amount of each installment shall be determined by dividing the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the preceding year by the difference between (i) the total number of years over which installments are to be distributed, and (ii) the number of annual installment distributions previously made from the deferred account.  
     
  (c)           Each installment (after the first installment) shall be approximately equal, with the amount comprised of the sum of: (i) the amount of the first installment, plus interest thereon at the rate determined under the 1986 Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan, compounded annually; and (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year.  
     
  (i)            the foregoing, the final installment distribution made to the grantor under this paragraph II-3 shall equal the total principal and accumulated income then held in the trust fund.  The grantor, by writing filed with the trustee and the administrator on or before the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs (or the end of the calendar year in which this trust is established, if the grantor s settlement date has already occurred), may select both the period (which may not be less than ten years from the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurred) over which the installment distributions are to be made and the method of computing the amount of each installment.  In the absence of such a written direction by the grantor, installment distributions shall be made over a period of ten years, and the amount of each installment  
     
  2    

shall be computed by using the method described in subparagraph (a) next above.  Installment distributions under this Paragraph II-3 shall be made as of January 1 of each year, beginning with the calendar year following the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the amount of each installment distribution under this paragraph II-3, and the trustee shall be fully protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  
     
  II-4                               DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE TRUST FUND AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The grantor, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income therefrom shall be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s death.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-4 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.  
     
  II-5                               FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  
     
  II-6                               PERPETUITIES.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  
     
   ARTICLE III  MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  III-1                          GENERAL POWERS.  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  
     
  3    

(a)                                     Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  
     
  (b)                                     To retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  
     
  (c)                                      To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such depositary.  
     
  (d)                                     To invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the trustee solely for the investment of trust funds.  
     
  (e)                                      To borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  
     
  (f)                                       To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  
     
  (g)                                      To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  
     
  (h)                                     To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  
     
  (i)                                         To give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  
     
  (j)                                        To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  
     
  (k)                                     To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  
     
  (l)                                         To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before  
     
  4    

making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee consider necessary for its protection.  
     
  (m)                                 To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity without liability for any loss that may result.  
     
  (n)                                     To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  
     
  (o)                                     To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  
     
  (p)                                     To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.  
     
  (q)                                     To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  
     
  III-2                          PRINCIPAL AND INCOME.  Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust. The grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  
     
  III-3                          STATEMENTS.  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period.  
     
  III-4                          COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  
     
  5    

ARTICLE IV  GENERAL PROVISIONS   
     
  IV-1                           INTERESTS NOT TRANSFERABLE.  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  
     
  IV-2                           DISAGREEMENT AS TO ACTS.  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper court.  
     
  IV-3                           TRUSTEE S OBLIGATIONS.  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or distribution. The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement.  
     
  IV-4                           GOOD FAITH ACTIONS.  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee.  
     
  IV-5                           WAIVER OF NOTICE.  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  IV-6                           CONTROLLING LAW.  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  
     
  IV-7                           SUCCESSORS.  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  
     
   ARTICLE V  CHANGES IN TRUSTEE   
     
  V-1                                RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE.  The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty (30) days  advance written notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  
     
  V-2                                APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement. A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  
     
  6    

V-3                                DUTIES OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account. Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee. With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  
     
   ARTICLE VI  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION   
     
  VI-1                           AMENDMENT.  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  
     
  (b)                                     This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.  
     
  VI-2                           TERMINATION.  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II.  
     
  *      *      *  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor           

The Northern Trust   Company as Trustee           

By           

Its              
     
  7    

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.7>
 5
 a2212523zex-10_7.htm
 EX-10.7

Exhibit 10.7   
     
  Amended and Restated  
  effective January 1, 2013  
     
   1998 PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN (PIP) RULES   
     
  The following rules shall govern the administration of the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan (PIP) and any comparable successor plan with respect to all amounts that are not Grandfathered Amounts.  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in these Rules shall have the meaning provided in the PIP.  These PIP rules became effective as of January 1, 1998, were subsequently amended and restated as of January 1, 2008, in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Code Section 409A ), and are hereby amended and restated as of January 1, 2013. Except as expressly provided herein, the provisions of these rules as they were in effect immediately prior to the January 1, 2013 amendment and restatement shall continue to apply to any participant who retired or terminated employment prior to January 1, 2013.  These rules shall remain in effect until amended by the Committee:  
     
  1.                                           Fiscal Year   .  The term  fiscal year,  as used in the PIP, means the fiscal period from time to time employed by Abbott for the purpose of reporting earnings to shareholders.  
     
  2.                                           Consolidated Net Income   .   Consolidated Net Earnings  shall be the consolidated net earnings for such fiscal year as stated in Abbott s Audited Financial Statements, shall reflect the incremental cost of FAS 123(R) in the current year and may, at the Compensation Committee s discretion, be adjusted to exclude acquired in-process research and development costs, and other specified items, net of income taxes.  
     
  3.                                           Naming of Participants   .  For any fiscal year, all participants in the PIP must be named by the Committee prior to the completion of the immediately preceding fiscal year.  A PIP participant may not be an active participant in the MIP in the same fiscal year.  
     
  4.                                           Inclusion in Pensionable Earnings   .  The full amount of any PIP award earned under Rule 5 will be included in the participant s pensionable earnings.  
     
  5.                                           Time of Payment   .  Beginning with any award allocation paid after December 31, 1998, a participant must direct payment or deferral of an allocation made to the participant under the PIP by one or more of the following methods:  
     
  (a)                                     In cash to the participant, which payment shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2   month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A);  
     
  (b)                                     A portion in cash and deposited to a grantor trust (the  Grantor Trust ) established by the participant (in a form which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust in Exhibit A) and the balance withheld on behalf of the participant to satisfy the participant s aggregate federal, state and local individual  

income and employment taxes; provided that all payments or contributions to the Grantor Trust and participant contemplated by this Rule 5(b) shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A); or  
     
  (c)                                      Deferral of payment until the time, and in the manner determined in Rule 17.  
     
  Amounts paid under the PIP will not be considered amounts paid under the MIP for purposes of subsections 3.3 and 3.4 and Section 4 of the MIP.  The base salaries of PIP participants will not be considered for determination of the MIP amount in subsection 3.3 of the MIP.  
     
  6.                                           Time of Election   .  
     
  (a)                                     A participant must make the election described in Rule 5 by filing it with the Committee before expiration of the election period established by the Committee, which period shall end    no later than December 31 of the fiscal year prior to the year during which the performance incentive compensation is earned under the PIP.  
     
  (b)                                     Notwithstanding the timing requirements of Rule 6(a), an individual who newly becomes eligible to participate in the PIP by being designated as a participant under subsection 3.1 of the PIP (and who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) may make the an initial deferral election described in Rule 5 by filing it with the Committee or its delegate within the thirty (30) day period immediately following the date he or she first is designated as participant,  provided , that the compensation deferred pursuant to such election relates solely to services performed after the date of such election.  For this purpose, an election shall be deemed to apply to compensation paid for services performed after the election if the election applies to no more than the amount prescribed by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(a)(7)(i).  
     
  (c)                                      Any election described in Rule 5 shall be irrevocable for the fiscal year to which the election applies.  
     
  7.                                           Accounts   .  The Committee shall establish accounts for participants who have made elections pursuant to Rule 5(b) or 5(c) as follows.  
     
  (a)                                     The Committee will maintain a  Deferred Account  in the name of each participant who has elected to defer payment of all or a portion of his or her PIP award under Rule 5(c).  The Deferred Account shall consist of allocations deferred according to Rule 5(c) and any adjustments made in accordance with Rule 8.  
     
  (b)                                     The Committee will maintain two separate Accounts, a  Pre-Tax Account  and an  After-Tax Account,  in the name of each participant who has declined to defer allocations by electing to have a portion of his or her PIP award deposited in cash to a Grantor Trust according to Rule 5(b).  The Pre-Tax Account shall consist of the aggregate of all allocations contemplated by Rule 5(b), whether deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust or withheld on behalf of the participant to satisfy the  
     
  2    

participant s aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes, and any adjustments made in accordance with Rule 9.  The After-Tax Account shall consist of after-tax allocations deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust in cash according to Rule 5(b) and any adjustments made in accordance with Rule 10.  
     
  8.                                           Adjustment of Deferred Accounts   .  At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Deferred Account will be adjusted as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     First, reduced by an amount equal to any distribution made to the participant during the year according to Rule 17 or Rule 18;  
     
  (b)                                     Next, increased by an amount equal to any allocation for that year that is deferred according to Rule 5(c); and  
     
  (c)                                      Last, increased by an amount equal to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  
     
  9.                                           Adjustment of Pre-Tax Accounts   .  At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Pre-Tax Account will be adjusted as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     First, reduced, in any year in which the participant is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the participant if the aggregate amounts allocated according to Rule 5(b) had instead been deferred under Rule 5(c);  
     
  (b)                                     Next, increased by an amount equal to any allocation for that year that is paid to the participant and withheld on behalf of the participant to satisfy the participant s aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes (including the amount paid to the participant s Grantor Trust) according to Rule 5(b); and  
     
  (c)                                      Last, increased by an amount equal to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  
     
  10.                                    Adjustment of After-Tax Accounts   .  At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s After-Tax Account will be adjusted as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     First, reduced, in any year in which the participant is in receipt of a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount calculated as provided in Rule 28 which represents the distribution for such year;  
     
  (b)                                     Next, increased by an amount equal to the allocation for that year that is deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust according to Rule 5(b); and  
     
  (c)           Last, increased by an amount equal to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  
     
  3    

11.                                    Interest Accruals on Accounts   .  
     
  (a)                                     As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Deferred Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be credited with interest ( Interest ) at the following rate:  
     
  (i)                                         the average of the  prime rate  of interest  published by The Wall Street Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the fiscal year; plus  
     
  (ii)                                      two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  
     
  (b)                                     As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest set forth above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable federal, state and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate, determined in accordance with Rules 25 and 26) (the  After-Tax Interest ).  
     
  (c)                                      The Interest and After-Tax Interest, as applicable, shall be credited on the conditions established by the Committee, provided that any award allocation shall be considered to have been made and credited to a participant s Account as of the first day of the fiscal year in which the award is made.  
     
  12.                                    Interest Payments   .  In addition to any allocation made to a participant for any fiscal year in accordance with Rule 5(b), Abbott shall also make a payment (an  Interest Payment ) with respect to each participant who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  Prior to January 1, 2013, the Interest Payment equaled the excess, if any, of the participant s Net Interest Accrual (as defined below) over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year (the  Pre-Amendment Amount ) and was paid to the participant s Grantor Trust within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  Effective as January 1, 2013, the Interest Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the participant s adjustment in Rule 9(c), over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year, as adjusted by the amounts described in Schedule A, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  A portion of such Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust (i.e., the Pre-Amendment Amount), shall be deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the Participant; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust exceed the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with Rule 31.  A participant s Net Interest Accrual for a year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest credited to the participant s After-Tax Account for that year in accordance with Rule 11(b).  
     
  13.                                    Grantor Trust Assets   .  Each participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that  
     
  4    

any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Attachment A.  
     
  14.                                    Designation of Beneficiaries   .  Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth below, each participant, and after a participant s death, each primary beneficiary designated by a participant in accordance with the provisions of this Rule 14, shall have the right from time to time to designate a primary beneficiary or beneficiaries and, successive or contingent beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive unpaid amounts from the participant s Deferred Account under the PIP.  Beneficiaries may be a natural person or persons or a fiduciary, such as a trustee of a trust or the legal representative of an estate.  Any such designation shall take effect upon the death of the participant or such beneficiary, as the case may be, or in the case of any fiduciary beneficiary, upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the PIP).  The conditions and limitations relating to the designation of beneficiaries are as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall have the right to designate a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the original participant or the next preceding primary beneficiary, as the case may be, shall have expressly so provided in writing; and  
     
  (b)                                     A fiduciary beneficiary shall designate as a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only those persons or other fiduciaries that are entitled to receive the amounts payable from the participant s account under the trust or estate of which it is a fiduciary.  
     
  Any beneficiary designation or grant of any power to any beneficiary under this Rule 14 may be exercised only by an instrument in writing, executed by the person making the designation or granting such power and filed with the Secretary of Abbott during the person s lifetime or prior to the termination of a fiduciary s duties.  If a deceased participant or a deceased nonfiduciary beneficiary who had the right to designate a beneficiary as provided above dies without having designated a further beneficiary, or if no beneficiary designated as provided above is living or qualified and acting, the Committee, in its discretion, may direct distribution of the amount remaining from time to time to either: (i)  any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the participant or the deceased beneficiary, as the case may be, and in such proportions as the Committee determines; or (ii)  the legal representative of the estate of the deceased participant or deceased beneficiary as the case may be.  
     
  15.                                    Non-assignability and Facility of Payment   .  Amounts payable to participants and their beneficiaries under the PIP are not in any way subject to their debts and other obligations, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned; provided that the provisions of these Rules shall not be construed as restricting in any way a designation right granted to a beneficiary under Rule 14.  When a participant or the beneficiary of a participant is under legal disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Committee may direct that payments shall be made to the participant s or beneficiary s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of the participant or beneficiary for the benefit of the participant or  
     
  5    

beneficiary, or the Committee may direct the payment or distribution for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary in any manner that the Committee determines.  
     
  16.                                    Payer of Amounts Allocated to Participants   .  Any amount allocated to a participant in the PIP and any interest credited thereto will be paid by the employer (or such employer s successor) by whom the participant was employed during the fiscal year for which any amount was allocated, and for that purpose, if a participant shall have been employed by two or more employers during any fiscal year the amount allocated under the PIP for that year shall be an obligation of each of the respective employers in proportion to the respective amounts of base salary paid by each of them in that fiscal year.  
     
  17.                                    Manner of Payment of Deferred Accounts   .  Subject to Rule 18, a participant shall elect to receive payment of his Deferred Account in substantially equal annual installments over a minimum period of ten years, or a longer period, at the time of his deferral election under Rule 5.  Payment of a participant s Deferred Account shall commence on the first business day of January of the year following the year in which the participant incurs a termination of employment.  
     
  18.                                    Payment Upon Termination Following Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the PIP or the provisions of any award made under the PIP, if a participant incurs a termination of employment with Abbott and its subsidiaries for any reason within two (2) years following the date of a Change in Control, provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change in control event , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with respect to a participant whose allocations under the PIP are deferred in accordance with Rule 5(c), the aggregate unpaid balance of the participant s Deferred Account shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment, and (b) with respect to a participant whose allocations under the PIP are made pursuant to Rule 5(b), (i) the aggregate of the participant s unpaid allocation under Rule 5(b) (if any) for the fiscal year in which the termination occurs and (ii) a pro rata portion of the unpaid Guaranteed Rate Payment under Rule 12 attributable to the portion of the year elapsed prior to the date of termination, shall be paid to such participant s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment.  
     
  19.                                    Change in Control   .  A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  
     
  (a)                                     the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  
     
  (b)                                     the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of  
     
  6    

office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of Abbott) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by Abbott s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
     
  (c)                                      the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of Abbott or any direct or indirect subsidiary of Abbott with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of Abbott, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if Abbott or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of Abbott outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any subsidiary of Abbott, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of Abbott or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Abbott (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (d)                                     the date the shareholders of Abbott approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of Abbott or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets, other than a sale or disposition by Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by shareholders of Abbott, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any subsidiary of Abbott, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of Abbott immediately prior to such sale.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of Abbott immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have    substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of Abbott immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  7    

For purposes of these Rules:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) Abbott or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of Abbott in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of Abbott.  
     
  20.                                    Potential Change in Control   .  A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  
     
  (a)                                     Abbott enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  
     
  (b)                                     Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  
     
  (c)                                      Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of Abbott or the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates).  
     
  (d)                                     The Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  
     
  21.                                    Prohibition Against Amendment   .  The provisions of Rules 18, 19, 20 and this Rule 21 may not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other Rule, (i) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control.  
     
  8    

22.                                    Reliance Upon Advice   .  The Board and the Committee may rely upon any information or advice furnished to it by any Officer of Abbott or by Abbott s independent auditors, or other consultants, and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information or advice.  No member of the Board or the Committee shall be liable for any act or failure to act on their part, excepting only any acts done or omitted to be done in bad faith, nor shall they be liable for any act or failure to act of any other member.  
     
  23.                                    Taxes   .  Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or desirable, to pay or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax attributable to any amounts payable by it under the PIP, and may require payment from the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  
     
  24.                                    Rights of Participants   .  Employment rights of participants with Abbott and its subsidiaries shall not be enlarged or affected by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant in the PIP.  Nothing contained in the PIP shall require Abbott or any subsidiary to segregate or earmark any assets, funds or property for the purpose of payment of any amounts which may have been deferred.  The Deferred, Pre-Tax and After-Tax Accounts established in accordance with Rule 7 are for the convenience of the administration of the PIP and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied.  Participant s rights shall be limited to payment to them at the time or times and in such amounts as are contemplated by the PIP and these Rules.  Any decision made by the Board or the Committee, which is within the sole and uncontrolled discretion of either, shall be conclusive and binding upon the other and upon all other persons whomsoever.  
     
  25.                                    Employment Tax Assumptions   .  For purposes of these Rules, a participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of Federal Insurance Contribution Act taxes in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under the applicable Rule is to be made.  
     
  26.                                    Income Tax Assumptions   .  For purposes of these Rules, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal income individual tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under the Rules is to be made, and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses.  
     
  27.                                    Change of Conditions Relating to Payments   .  No change to the time of payment or the time of commencement of payment and any period over which payment shall be made shall be effected except in strict compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b) to the extent subject thereto.  
     
  28.                                    Administrator s Calculation of Grantor Trust Distributions   . The Administrator shall calculate the amount to be distributed from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in which the participant is entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (i) the amount of the reduction determined in accordance with Rule 9(a), by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the participant s After-Tax Account as of the end of the prior fiscal  
     
  9    

year and the denominator of which is the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date.  
     
  29.                                    Code Section 409A   .  To the extent applicable, it is intended that these Rules comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Rules will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Rules to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all purposes of these Rules, a participant shall not be deemed to have had a termination of employment until the participant has incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under the Rules that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the rate specified in Rule 11 (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant under Rule 12), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  In addition, for purposes of these Rules, each amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  
     
  30.                                    Domestic Relations Order   .  In accordance with Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), distributions shall be made to an individual (other than to the participant) pursuant to the terms of a  domestic relations order  (as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 414(p)(1)(B)), as determined and administered by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Abbott or his or her delegate, provided, that such order (a) does not require the plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option not otherwise provided under the plan, (b) does not require the plan to provide increased benefits, and (c) does not require the payment of benefits to an alternate payee which are required to be paid to another alternate payee under another order.  
     
  31.                                    Grantor Trusts   .  Abbott, as the administrator of the participant s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to the participant from the income of such Grantor Trust, a sum of money sufficient to pay the taxes on the Grantor Trust earnings for such year, to the extent a sufficient sum of money has not been paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant pursuant to Rule 12.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with Rules 25 and 26.  
     
  10    

EXHIBIT A   
     
   IRREVOCABLE GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT, made this            day of                         , 20    , by and between                                                of                       , Illinois (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  
     
  WITNESSETH THAT:  
     
  WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time;  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  
     
   ARTICLE I             INTRODUCTION   
     
  I-1                                    NAME.  This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to as the                               20     Grantor Trust .  
     
  I-2                                    THE TRUST FUND.  The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  
     
  I-3                                    STATUS OF THE TRUST.  The trust shall be irrevocable.  The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  
     
  I-4                                    THE ADMINISTRATOR.  Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below.  Abbott will certify to the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the administrator.  The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  
     
  I-5                                    ACCEPTANCE.  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.  
     
   ARTICLE II     DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  II-1                               SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.  The administrator shall maintain two separate accounts under the trust, a  rollout account  and a  deferred account.   Funds delivered to the trustee shall be allocated between the accounts by the trustee as directed by the administrator.  As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge each account with all distributions made from such account during that year; and credit each account with its share of income and  

realized gains and charge each account with its share of expenses and realized losses for the year.  The trustee shall not be required to make any separate investment of the trust fund for the accounts, and may administer and invest all funds delivered to it under the trust as one trust fund.  
     
  II-2                               DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE ROLLOUT ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The trustee shall distribute principal and accumulated income credited to the rollout account to the grantor, if then living, at such times and in such amounts as the administrator shall direct.  
     
  II-3                               DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE DEFERRED ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  Principal and accumulated income credited to the deferred account shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s retirement or other termination of employment with Abbott or a subsidiary of Abbott (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the deferred account for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in that account.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date. Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the amounts from time to time credited to the deferred account to the grantor, if then living, in a series of annual installments, with the amount of each installment computed by one of the following methods:  
     
  (a)                                     The amount of each installment shall be equal to the sum of: (i) the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs, divided by the number of years over which installments are to be distributed; plus (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year  (excluding the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs).  
     
  (b)                                     The amount of each installment shall be determined by dividing the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the preceding year by the difference between (i) the total number of years over which installments are to be distributed, and (ii) the number of annual installment distributions previously made from the deferred account.  
     
  (c)                                      Each installment (after the first installment) shall be approximately equal, with the amount comprised of the sum of: (i) the amount of the first installment, plus interest thereon at the rate determined under the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan, compounded annually; and (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year.  
     
  (i)                                         the foregoing, the final installment distribution made to the grantor under this paragraph II-3 shall equal the total principal and accumulated income then held in the trust fund.  The grantor, by writing filed with the trustee and the administrator on or before the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs (or the end of the calendar year in which this trust is established, if the grantor s settlement date has already occurred), may select both the period (which may not be less than ten years from the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurred) over which the installment distributions are to be made and the method of computing the amount of each installment.  In the absence of such a written direction by the grantor, installment distributions shall be made over a period of ten years, and the amount of each installment  
     
  2    

shall be computed by using the method described in subparagraph (a) next above.  Installment distributions under this Paragraph II-3 shall be made as of January 1 of each year, beginning with the calendar year following the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the amount of each installment distribution under this paragraph II-3, and the trustee shall be fully protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  
     
  II-4                               DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE TRUST FUND AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The grantor, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income therefrom shall be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s death.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-4 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.  
     
  II-5                               FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  
     
  II-6                               PERPETUITIES.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  
     
   ARTICLE III  MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  III-1                          GENERAL POWERS.  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  
     
  3    

(a)                                     Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  
     
  (b)                                     To retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  
     
  (c)                                      To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such depositary.  
     
  (d)                                     To invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the trustee solely for the investment of trust funds.  
     
  (e)                                      To borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  
     
  (f)                                       To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  
     
  (g)                                      To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  
     
  (h)                                     To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  
     
  (i)                                         To give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  
     
  (j)                                        To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  
     
  (k)                                     To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  
     
  (l)                                         To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before  
     
  4    

making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee consider necessary for its protection.  
     
  (m)                                 To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity without liability for any loss that may result.  
     
  (n)                                     To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  
     
  (o)                                     To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  
     
  (p)                                     To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.  
     
  (q)                                     To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  
     
  III-2                          PRINCIPAL AND INCOME.  Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust. The grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  
     
  III-3                          STATEMENTS.  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period.  
     
  III-4                          COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  
     
  5    

ARTICLE IV  GENERAL PROVISIONS   
     
  IV-1                           INTERESTS NOT TRANSFERABLE.  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  
     
  IV-2                           DISAGREEMENT AS TO ACTS.  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper court.  
     
  IV-3                           TRUSTEE S OBLIGATIONS.  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or distribution. The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement.  
     
  IV-4                           GOOD FAITH ACTIONS.  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee.  
     
  IV-5                           WAIVER OF NOTICE.  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  IV-6                           CONTROLLING LAW.  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  
     
  IV-7                           SUCCESSORS.  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  
     
   ARTICLE V  CHANGES IN TRUSTEE   
     
  V-1                                RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE.  The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty (30) days  advance written notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  
     
  V-2                                APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement. A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  
     
  6    

V-3                                DUTIES OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account. Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee. With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  
     
   ARTICLE VI  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION   
     
  VI-1                           AMENDMENT.  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  
     
  (b)                                     This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.  
     
  VI-2                           TERMINATION.  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II.  
     
  *      *      *  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor           

The Northern Trust   Company as Trustee           

By           

Its              
     
  7    

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.9>
 6
 a2212523zex-10_9.htm
 EX-10.9

Exhibit 10.9   
     
  Amended and Restated  effective January 1, 2013  
     
   ABBOTT LABORATORIES   
     
   2009 INCENTIVE STOCK PROGRAM   
     
   1.                                              PURPOSE.   
     
  The purpose of the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program is to attract and retain outstanding directors, officers and other employees of Abbott Laboratories and its Subsidiaries, and to furnish incentives to such persons by providing opportunities to acquire common shares of the Company, or monetary payments based on the value of such shares or the financial performance of the Company, or both, on advantageous terms as herein provided and to further align such persons  interests with those of the Company s other shareholders through compensation that is based on the value of the Company s common shares.  
     
   2.                                              ADMINISTRATION.   
     
  The Program will be administered by the Committee.  For purposes of the Program, the  Committee  shall be a committee of at least two persons which shall be either the Compensation Committee of the Board or such other committee comprised entirely of persons who are both: (i)  disinterested persons  as defined in Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and (ii)  outside directors  as defined under Code Section 162(m).  The Compensation Committee of the Board shall serve as the Committee administering the Program until such time as the Board designates a different Committee.  
     
  The Committee has the following powers, which it may exercise in its sole discretion, subject to and not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Program: (i) to administer the Program; (ii) to exercise all the power and authority either specifically granted to it under the Program or necessary or advisable in the administration of the Program; (iii) to grant Benefits; (iv) to determine the persons to whom and the time or times at which Benefits shall be granted, (v) to determine the type and number of Benefits to be granted, the number of Shares to which a Benefit may relate and the terms, conditions, restrictions and Performance Goals relating to any Benefit; (vi) to determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances a Benefit may be settled, canceled, forfeited, accelerated, exchanged, deferred (in accordance with the requirements of Code Section 409A) or surrendered; provided that, except as described in Section 5, the Committee shall neither lower the exercise price or base price of an outstanding option or Stock Appreciation Right nor grant any Benefit or provide cash in replacement of a canceled option or Stock Appreciation Right which had been granted at a higher exercise price or base price without the prior approval of the Company s shareholders; (vii) to make adjustments in the terms and conditions (including Performance Goals) applicable to Benefits; (viii) to construe and interpret the Program and any Benefit; (ix) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Program, including any sub-Program contemplated by Section 10; (x) to determine the terms and provisions of any Benefit Agreement (which need not be identical for each Grantee); and (xi) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Program.  The Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Program or in any Benefit Agreement in the  
     
  1    

manner and to the extent it shall deem necessary or advisable to carry the Program into effect and shall be the sole and final judge of such necessity or advisability.  
     
  A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum and all determinations of the Committee shall be made by a majority of its members.  Any determination of the Committee under the Program may be made without notice of a meeting of the Committee by a writing signed by all of the Committee members.  The decision of the Committee as to all questions of interpretation, application and administration of the Program shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons.  
     
  The Committee may, from time to time, delegate any or all of its duties, powers and authority to any officer or officers of the Company, except to the extent such delegation would be inconsistent with Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission or other applicable law, rule or regulation.  The Chief Executive Officer of the Company may grant Benefits under the Program other than to persons subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act with respect to transactions involving equity securities of the Company at the time that delegated authority is exercised.  All such grants by the Chief Executive Officer shall be reported annually to the Committee, however, the Committee is not required to take any action with respect to such grants.  No Committee member or delegate thereof shall be liable for any action taken or determination made, or which the Committee member or delegate fails to take or make, in good faith with respect to the Program or any Benefit.  
     
   3.                                              PARTICIPANTS.   
     
  Participants in the Program shall consist of the employees of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries who the Committee in its sole discretion may designate from time to time to receive Benefits, optionees who are eligible to receive replacement options with respect to options originally granted under the Prior Program or the Program that include a replacement option feature, and, solely for purposes of receiving Benefits under Section 11 and Section 12, Non-Employee Directors of the Company.  The Committee s designation of a person to receive a Benefit in any year shall not require the Committee to designate such person to receive a Benefit in any other year.  The Committee shall consider such factors as it deems pertinent in selecting participants and in determining the type and amount of their respective Benefits, including without limitation (i) the financial condition of the Company; (ii) anticipated profits for the current or future years; (iii) contributions of participants to the profitability and development of the Company; (iv) prior awards to participants; and (v) other compensation provided to participants.  
     
   4.                                              SHARES RESERVED UNDER THE PROGRAM AND ADJUSTMENTS.   
     
  Subject to adjustment as provided in this Section 4, the maximum number of Shares available for issuance under the Program is 175,000,000 Shares plus: (i) the number of shares previously reserved under the Prior Program in excess of the number of shares as to which Benefits have been granted under the Prior Program as of the Effective Date, and (ii) the number of Shares subject to outstanding awards as of the Effective Date under the Prior Program that on or after the Effective Date cease for any reason to be subject to such awards (other than by  
     
  2    

reason of exercise or settlement of the awards to the extent they are exercised for or settled in vested and non-forfeitable Shares) (the  Share Limit  provided that each Share issued under the Program pursuant to a Full Value Award shall be counted against the foregoing Share Limit as three shares for every one share actually issued in connection with such award.  Such Shares may, in whole or in part, be authorized but unissued Shares or Shares that shall have been or may be reacquired by the Company in the open market, in private transactions or otherwise.  Any Shares as to which Benefits granted under the Prior Program may lapse, expire, terminate or be canceled after the Effective Date, shall also be reserved and available for issuance under this Program.  No Benefits shall be granted under the Prior Program after the date of shareholder approval of this Program.  
     
  If there is a lapse, expiration, termination, forfeiture or cancellation of any Benefit without the issuance of Shares or payment of cash thereunder, the Shares reserved for such Benefit may again be used for the grant of new Benefits of any type authorized under this Program; provided, however, that in no event may the number of Shares issued under this Program exceed the total number of Shares reserved for issuance hereunder.  Shares that are issued under any Benefit and thereafter reacquired by the Company pursuant to rights reserved upon the issuance thereof, or pursuant to the payment of the exercise price of Shares under options by delivery of other Shares, or Shares under options or stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights that were not issued upon the net exercise or net settlement of such options or Stock Appreciation Rights, or Shares repurchased by the Company with the proceeds collected in connection with the exercise of outstanding options, and Shares that are exchanged by a Grantee or withheld by the Company to satisfy tax withholding requirements in connection with any Program Benefit shall not be available for subsequent awards of Program Benefits.  Upon the exercise of any Benefit granted in tandem with any other Benefits, such related Benefits shall be canceled to the extent of the number of Shares as to which the Benefit is exercised and, notwithstanding the foregoing, such number of shares shall no longer be available for Program Benefits.  Benefits that may be settled only in cash shall not reduce the number of Shares available for subsequent awards of Benefits.  
     
  The maximum number of Shares with respect to which Non-Qualified Stock Options under Section 6 and Stock Appreciation Rights under Section 9(a) may be granted to any one participant, in the aggregate in any one calendar year, shall be two million (2,000,000) Shares.  Determinations made in respect of the limitation set forth in this paragraph shall be made in a manner consistent with Code Section 162(m).  
     
  Except as provided in a Benefit Agreement or as otherwise provided in the Program, if the Committee determines that any special dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination, repurchase, or share exchange, or other similar corporate transaction or event, affects the Shares such that an equitable change or adjustment relating to the Program or Program Benefits is appropriate, then the Committee shall make any such equitable changes or adjustments as it deems necessary or appropriate, including by way of illustration, changes or adjustments to any or all of (i) the number and kind of Shares or other property (including cash) that may thereafter be issued in connection with Benefits, including the Share Limit, (ii) the number and kind of Shares or other property issued or issuable in respect of  
     
  3    

outstanding Benefits, (iii) the exercise price, grant price or purchase price relating to any Benefit, (iv) the Performance Goals and (v) the individual and other limitations applicable to Benefits; provided that no such adjustment shall cause any Benefit hereunder which is or becomes subject to Code Section 409A to fail to comply with the requirements of such section; and provided further that, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, any additional Shares or other securities or property issued with respect to Shares covered by awards granted under the Program as a result of any stock split, combination, stock dividend, recapitalization or other adjustment event described in this Section 4 shall be subject to the restrictions and other provisions of the original Benefit awarded under the Program.  
     
   5.                                              TYPES OF BENEFITS.   
     
  The following Benefits, alone or in combination, may be granted under the Program: (i)  Nonqualified Stock Options, (ii) Restricted Stock Awards, (iii) Restricted Stock Units, (iv) Performance Awards, (v) Other Share-Based Awards (including Stock Appreciation Rights, dividend equivalents and recognition awards), (vi) awards to Non-Employee Directors, and (vii) Foreign Benefits, all as described below.  
     
   6.                                              OPTIONS.   
     
   (a)                                         In General.   
     
  The Committee may grant Nonqualified Stock Options to Grantees which may be subject to such restrictions, terms and conditions, as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion and as shall be evidenced by the applicable Benefit Agreement (provided that any such Benefit is subject to the vesting requirements described herein).  
     
  The Committee shall determine the exercise price for each Share purchasable under an option, but in no event shall the exercise price per Share be less than the Fair Market Value of a Share on the option s date of grant.  The exercise price shall be paid in full at the time of exercise; payment may be made as determined by the Committee, including (1) in cash, which may be paid by check, or other instrument acceptable to the Company; (2) unless otherwise provided in the Benefit Agreement, in Shares having a then market value equal to the aggregate exercise price (including by withholding Shares that otherwise would be distributed to the Grantee upon exercise of the option); (3) delivery of a properly executed exercise notice, together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to the Company the amount of sales proceeds from the option Shares or loan proceeds to pay the exercise price and any withholding taxes due to the Company; or (4) by any other method permitted by the Committee.  Any amount necessary to satisfy applicable federal, state or local tax withholding requirements (or corresponding requirements under applicable laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions) shall be paid promptly upon notification of the amount due.  The amount of tax withholding may be paid in Shares having a then market value equal to the amount required to be withheld (including by withholding Shares that otherwise would be distributed to the Grantee upon exercise of the option), or a combination of cash and Shares.  
     
  4    

An option shall be exercisable over its term (which shall not exceed ten years from the date of grant), at such times and upon such conditions as the Committee may determine, as reflected in the Benefit Agreement.  An option may be exercised to the extent of any or all full Shares as to which the option has become exercisable, by giving written notice of such exercise to the Committee or its designated agent, in such form as the Committee may prescribe.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no option granted pursuant to this Section 6 shall be exercisable earlier than six (6) months from its date of grant.  
     
  Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Benefit Agreement, (i) in the event of termination of employment for any reason other than retirement, disability or death, the right of the optionee to exercise an option shall terminate upon the earlier of the end of the original term of the option or three (3) months after the optionee s last day of work for the Company or its Subsidiaries; (ii) in the event of termination of employment due to retirement or disability, or if the optionee should die while employed, the right of the optionee or his or her successor in interest to exercise an option shall terminate upon the end of the original term of the option; and (iii) if the optionee should die within three (3) months after termination of employment for any reason other than retirement or disability, the right of his or her successor in interest to exercise an option shall terminate upon the earlier of the end of the original term of the option or three (3) months after the date of such death.  
     
   (b)                                         Replacement Options.   
     
  Options are outstanding under the Prior Program that provide for the grant of replacement options if all or any portion of the exercise price or taxes incurred in connection with the exercise of the original option are paid by delivery of other Shares (or, in the case of payment of taxes, by withholding of Shares).  The Committee may only grant replacement options ( replacement options ) under the Program to the extent required with respect to such options granted under the Prior Program and with respect to replacement options granted with a replacement option feature.  Any replacement options granted under the Program shall be Nonqualified Stock Options.  In addition, any such replacement options shall (i) cover the number of Shares surrendered to pay the exercise price plus the number of Shares surrendered or withheld to satisfy the optionee s tax liability, (ii) have an exercise price equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date such replacement option is granted, (iii) first be exercisable six months from the date such replacement option is granted, (iv) have an expiration date identical to the expiration date of the original option, and (v) contain a similar replacement option feature.  
     
   7.                                              RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS.   
     
   (a)                                         Restricted Stock Awards.   
     
  The Committee may grant Restricted Stock Awards, subject to such restrictions, terms and conditions, as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion and as shall be evidenced by the applicable Benefit Agreement (provided that any such Benefit is subject to the vesting requirements described herein).  The vesting of a Restricted Stock Award may be conditioned upon the completion of a specified period of employment or service with the Company or any  
     
  5    

Subsidiary, upon the attainment of specified Performance Goals, and/or upon such other criteria as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion.  
     
  Except as provided in the applicable Benefit Agreement, no Shares underlying a Restricted Stock Award may be sold, assigned, transferred, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of by the Grantee until such Shares have vested in accordance with the terms of such Benefit.  Subject to such other restrictions as are imposed by the Committee, the Shares covered by an award of Restricted Stock to a participant who is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act may be sold or otherwise disposed of only after six (6) months from the grant date (unless such sale would not affect the exemption under Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission).  
     
  If and to the extent that the applicable Benefit Agreement may so provide, a Grantee shall have the right to vote and receive dividends on Restricted Stock granted under the Program.  Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Benefit Agreement, any Shares received as a dividend on or in connection with a stock split of the Shares underlying a Restricted Stock Award awarded under this Section shall be subject to the same restrictions as the Shares underlying such Restricted Stock Award.  
     
  Upon the termination of a Grantee s employment or service with the Company and its Subsidiaries, the Restricted Stock granted to such Grantee shall be subject to the terms and conditions specified in the applicable Benefit Agreement.  
     
   (b)                                         Restricted Stock Units.   
     
  The Committee may grant Restricted Stock Units, subject to such restrictions, terms and conditions, as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion and as shall be evidenced by the applicable Benefit Agreement (provided that any such Restricted Stock Unit is subject to the vesting requirements described herein).  The vesting of a Restricted Stock Unit granted under the Program may be conditioned upon the completion of a specified period of employment or service with the Company or any Subsidiary, upon the attainment of specified Performance Goals, and/or upon such other criteria as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion.  
     
  Unless otherwise provided in a Benefit Agreement, upon the vesting of a Restricted Stock Unit there shall be delivered to the Grantee, as soon as practicable following the date on which such Benefit (or any portion thereof) vests (but in no event later than two and one-half (2  ) months following the end of the calendar year in which such Restricted Stock Unit vests), subject to Section 13, that number of Shares equal to the number of Restricted Stock Units that have vested (or the cash equivalent thereof in the case of a cash-settled award).  
     
  Except as provided in the applicable Benefit Agreement, a Restricted Stock Unit may not be sold, assigned, transferred or otherwise encumbered or disposed of by the Grantee.  Subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A, Restricted Stock Units may provide the Grantee with the right to receive dividend equivalent payments with respect to Shares subject to the Benefit (both before and after the Benefit is earned or vested), which payments may be either made currently or credited to an account for the participant, and may be settled in cash or Shares, as determined by the Committee.  Any such settlements and any such crediting of dividend  
     
  6    

equivalents may be subject to such conditions, restrictions and contingencies as the Committee shall establish, including the reinvestment of such credited amounts in Share equivalents.  
     
  Upon the termination of a Grantee s employment or service with the Company and its Subsidiaries, the Restricted Stock Units granted to such Grantee shall be subject to the terms and conditions specified in the applicable Benefit Agreement.  
     
   8.                                              PERFORMANCE AWARDS.   
     
  The Committee may grant Benefits including Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units and Other Share-Based Awards, which may be earned in whole or in part based on the attainment of performance goals established by the Committee, which shall be based on one or more of the following criteria: earnings per share, return on equity, return on assets, return on net assets, return on investment, total shareholder return, net operating income, cash flow, increase in revenue, economic value added, increase in share price or cash flow return on investment, and any combination of, or a specified increase in, any of the foregoing (the  Performance Goals ).  Where applicable, the Performance Goals may be expressed in terms of attaining a specified level of the particular criteria or the attainment of a percentage increase or decrease in the particular criteria, and may be applied to one or more of the Company, a Subsidiary, or a division or strategic business unit of the Company, or may be applied to the performance of the Company relative to a market index, a group of other companies or a combination thereof, all as determined by the Committee.  The Performance Goals may include a threshold level of performance below which no payment will be made (or no vesting will occur), levels of performance at which specified payments will be made (or specified vesting will occur), and a maximum level of performance above which no additional payment will be made (or at which full vesting will occur).  In addition, partial achievement of Performance Goals may result in payment or vesting corresponding to the degree of achievement of the Performance Goal.  Where necessary to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 162(m), each of the foregoing Performance Goals shall be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or such other objective standards satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m), and shall be subject to written certification by the Committee; provided that, to the extent a Benefit is intended to satisfy the performance-based compensation exception to the limits of Code Section 162(m) and then to the extent consistent with such exception, the Committee may make equitable adjustments to the Performance Goals in recognition of unusual or non-recurring events affecting the Company or any Subsidiary or the financial statements of the Company or any Subsidiary, in response to changes in applicable laws or regulations, or to account for items of gain, loss or expense determined to be extraordinary or unusual in nature or infrequent in occurrence or related to the disposal of a segment of a business or related to a change in accounting principles.  No payment shall be made to a Covered Employee prior to the written certification by the Committee that the Performance Goals have been attained.  The Committee may establish such other rules applicable to Benefits intended to be qualified performance-based compensation to the extent consistent with Code Section 162(m).  
     
  The maximum amount which may be granted under this Section 8 for any one year for any one participant shall be $15 million, determined by multiplying the number of shares or units granted under the Benefit by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant.  For any  
     
  7    

performance period in excess of one year, such maximum value shall be determined by multiplying $15 million by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months in the performance period and the denominator of which is twelve.  
     
  Payments earned in respect of any Benefit may be decreased or, with respect to any Grantee who is not a Covered Employee, increased in the sole discretion of the Committee based on such factors as it deems appropriate.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Benefits may be adjusted in accordance with Section 4.  
     
   9.                                              OTHER SHARE-BASED AWARDS AND RECOGNITION AWARDS.   
     
   (a)                                         Other Share-Based Awards.   
     
  The Committee may grant Other Share-Based Awards, including Stock Appreciation Rights, under terms and conditions specified by the Committee in the applicable Benefit Agreement, which may include the attainment of Performance Goals; provided, however, that with respect to a Stock Appreciation Right, in no event shall (i) the base price per Share be less than the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Stock Appreciation Right s date of grant nor (ii) the term of such Stock Appreciation Right exceed ten years from the date of grant.  Such terms and conditions shall be consistent with the terms of the Program.  Shares or other securities or property delivered pursuant to a Benefit in the nature of a purchase right granted under this Section 9 shall be purchased for such consideration, paid for at such times, by such methods, and in such forms, including, without limitation, Shares, other Benefits, notes or other property, as the Committee shall determine, subject to any required corporate action.  
     
   (b)                                         Recognition Awards.   
     
  In addition to Restricted Stock Awards governed by Section 7(a), the Committee may grant fully vested Shares to employees of the Company, its Subsidiaries, in recognition of the employee s contribution to the Company; provided that the aggregate value of such recognition awards granted in any fiscal year to any single individual shall not exceed one thousand (1,000) Shares.  
     
   10.                                       FOREIGN BENEFITS.   
     
  The Committee may grant Benefits to employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries who reside in foreign jurisdictions.  Notwithstanding anything in the Program to the contrary, each of the Committee and, to the extent permitted under applicable law, the Senior Vice President, Human Resources, may, in its or his sole discretion:  (a) amend or vary the terms of the Program in order to conform such terms with the requirements of each jurisdiction where a Subsidiary is located; (b) amend or vary the terms of the Program in each jurisdiction where a Subsidiary is located as it or he considers necessary or desirable to take into account or to mitigate or reduce the burden of taxation and social security contributions for Participants and/or the Subsidiary; or (c) amend or vary the terms of the Program in a jurisdiction where the Subsidiary is located as it or he considers necessary or desirable to meet the goals and objectives of the Program.  Each of the Committee and, to the extent permitted under applicable law, the  
     
  8    

Senior Vice President, Human Resources, may, where it deems appropriate in its or his sole discretion, establish one or more sub-Programs for these purposes.  The Committee and, to the extent permitted under applicable law, the Senior Vice President, Human Resources, may, in its or his sole discretion, establish administrative rules and procedures to facilitate the operation of the Program in such jurisdictions.  The terms and conditions contained herein which are subject to variation in a jurisdiction shall be reflected in a written attachment to the Program for each Subsidiary in such jurisdiction.  To the extent permitted under applicable law, the Committee may delegate its authority and responsibilities under this Section 10 to one or more officers of the Company.  In this regard and to the extent permitted under applicable law, the Committee hereby delegates its authority and responsibilities under this Section 10 to the Senior Vice President, Human Resources.  
     
   11.                                       NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS TO NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS.   
     
  Each Non-Employee Director may elect to receive any or all of his or her fees earned under Section 3 of the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors  Fee Plan (the  Directors  Fee Plan ) in the form of Nonqualified Stock Options under this Section.  Each such election shall be irrevocable, and must be made in writing and filed with the Secretary of the Company by December 31 of the calendar year preceding the period in which such fees are earned.  A Non-Employee Director may file a new election each calendar year applicable to fees earned in the immediately succeeding calendar year, provided that a new election to receive benefits in the form of options shall not be effective until the period covered by the Non-Employee Director s current election has ended.  If no new election is received by December 31 of any calendar year, the election, if any, then in effect shall continue in effect until a new election is made and has become effective.  If a director does not elect to receive his or her fees in the form of Nonqualified Stock Options, the fees due such director shall be paid or deferred as provided in the Directors  Fee Plan and any applicable election thereunder by the director.  
     
  Each Nonqualified Stock Option due to a director under this Program pursuant to an election shall be granted annually, on the date of the annual shareholders meeting.  Except as otherwise provided, each such Nonqualified Stock Option shall be (A) subject to the terms and conditions of Section 6, (B) immediately exercisable and non-forfeitable and (C) exercisable until the expiration of ten years from the date of grant.  Non-Employee Directors who hold replacement options granted under the Prior Program shall also receive replacement options consistent with the provisions of Section 6(b).  
     
   12.                                       RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS TO NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS.   
     
  Each year, on the date of the annual shareholders meeting, each person who is elected a Non-Employee Director at the annual shareholders meeting shall be awarded: Restricted Stock Units covering a number of Shares with a Fair Market Value on the date of the award closest to, but not in excess of the sum of (A) an amount equal to six times the monthly fee in effect under Section 3.1 of the Directors  Fee Plan on the date of the award and (B) Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000).  
     
  9    

The Restricted Stock Units granted to Non-Employee Directors shall be fully vested on the date of the award and shall be awarded and/or issued or paid in a manner that will comply with Code Section 409A.  Subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A, the Non-Employee Director receiving the Restricted Stock Units shall be entitled to receive one Share for each Restricted Stock Unit upon the earliest of (A) the director s  separation from service  (within the meaning of Code Section 409A); (B) the date the director dies; or (C) the date of occurrence of a Change in Control that also qualifies as a  change in control event  (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)).  
     
  Subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A, the Non-Employee Director receiving the Restricted Stock Units shall be entitled to receive cash payments equal to the dividends and distributions paid on the Shares (other than dividends or distributions of securities of the Company which may be issued with respect to its shares by virtue of any stock split, combination, stock dividend or recapitalization) to the same extent as if each Restricted Stock Unit was a Share, and those shares were not subject to the restrictions imposed by this Program, provided that the record date with respect to such dividend or distribution occurs within the period commencing with the date of grant of the Benefit and ending upon the earliest of (A) the date of the director s death, (B) the date of the director s  separation from service  (within the meaning of Code Section 409A), or (C) the date of the occurrence of a Change in Control that also qualifies as a  change in control event  (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)).  
     
  While outstanding, the Restricted Stock Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  
     
  Except in the event of conflict, all provisions of the Program shall apply to this Section 12.  In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Program and this Section 12, this Section 12 shall control.  
     
   13.                                       CHANGE IN CONTROL PROVISIONS.   
     
  (a)           Notwithstanding any other provision of this Program or the Prior Program, the following provisions shall apply upon the occurrence of a Change in Control unless otherwise provided in a Benefit Agreement:  
     
  (i)            All options then outstanding under this Program or the Prior Program shall become fully vested and exercisable as of the date of the Change in Control, whether or not then otherwise vested or exercisable;  
     
  (ii)           All Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Share-Based Awards then outstanding shall become fully vested and exercisable as of the date of the Change in Control, whether or not then otherwise vested or exercisable;  

10    

(iii)          All terms and conditions of all Restricted Stock Awards then outstanding shall be deemed satisfied and all restrictions on those Restricted Stock Awards will lapse as of the date of the Change in Control;  
     
  (iv)          All terms and conditions of all Restricted Stock Units then outstanding shall be deemed satisfied and all restrictions on those Restricted Stock Units will lapse as of the date of the Change in Control; and  
     
  (v)           All performance criteria shall be deemed to have been attained and all Performance Awards then outstanding shall be deemed to have been fully earned and to be immediately payable as of the date of the Change in Control.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to each Benefit that is subject to Code Section 409A, if a Change in Control would have occurred under the Program but such Change in Control does not also qualify as a  change in control event  (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)), then each such Benefit shall become vested and non-forfeitable; provided, however, that the Grantee shall not be able to exercise the Benefit, and the Benefit shall not become payable, except in accordance with the terms of such Benefit or until such earlier time as the exercise and/or payment complies with Code Section 409A.  
     
  (b)           A   Change in Control   shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  
     
  (i)            The date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner (as defined below), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (a) of paragraph (iii) below; or  
     
  (ii)           The date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
     
  (iii)          The date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation or other entity, other than (a) a merger or consolidation (I) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the board of directors of the Company, the entity surviving such merger or  
     
  11    

consolidation or, if the Company or the entity surviving such merger is then a Subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (II) which results in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (b) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (iv)          The date the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by shareholders of the Company, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common shares of the Company immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  For purposes of this Program:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and as used in Section 13(d) and 14(d) thereof and the rules thereunder, except that such term shall not include (1) the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (2) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary, (3) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (4) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of the Company; and  Subsidiary  shall mean any corporation, partnership, joint venture or business trust, fifty percent (50%) or more of the control of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company.  
     
  (c)           In the event that, in connection with a Change in Control, outstanding options under the Program or Prior Program are either assumed or converted into substituted options  
     
  12    

consistent with Section 5, each such assumed or substituted option shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions (including, without limitation, with respect to any right to receive replacement options upon option exercise) to which it was subject immediately prior to the transaction resulting in the assumption or substitution.  
     
  (d)           Upon a Change in Control in which the outstanding Shares are changed into, or exchanged for, property (including cash) other than solely stock or securities of the Company or another corporation (disregarding, for this purpose, cash paid in lieu of fractional shares), each Grantee may elect to receive, immediately following such Change in Control in exchange for cancellation of any stock option or Stock Appreciation Right held by such Grantee immediately prior to the Change in Control, a cash payment, with respect to each Share subject to such option or right, equal to the difference between the value of consideration (as determined by the Committee) received by the shareholders for a Share in the Change in Control, less any applicable purchase price.  
     
   14.                                       GENERAL PROVISIONS.   
     
   (a)                                         Nontransferability, Deferrals and Settlements.   
     
  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee or provided in a Benefit Agreement, Benefits shall not be transferable by a Grantee except by will or the laws of descent and distribution and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of a Grantee only by such Grantee or his guardian or legal representative.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any transfer of Benefits to independent third parties for cash consideration without shareholder approval is prohibited.  Any Benefit shall be null and void and without effect upon any attempted assignment or transfer, except as herein provided, including without limitation any purported assignment, whether voluntary or by operation of law, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition, attachment, divorce, trustee process or similar process, whether legal or equitable, upon such Benefit.  With respect to Benefits other than options, the Committee may require or permit Grantees to elect to defer the issuance of Shares (with settlement in cash or Shares as may be determined by the Committee or elected by the Grantee in accordance with procedures established by the Committee), or the settlement of Benefits in cash under such rules and procedures as established under the Program to the extent that such deferral complies with Code Section 409A and any regulations or guidance promulgated thereunder.  It may also provide that such deferred settlements include the payment or crediting of interest, dividends or dividend equivalents on the deferral amounts.  
     
   (b)                                         No Right to Continued Employment, etc.   
     
  Nothing in the Program or in any Benefit granted or any Benefit Agreement or other agreement entered into pursuant hereto shall confer upon any Grantee the right to continue in the employ or service of the Company, any Subsidiary or to be entitled to any remuneration or benefits not set forth in the Program or such Benefit Agreement or other agreement or to interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any such Subsidiary to terminate such Grantee s employment or service.  
     
  13    

(c)                                          Sale of Subsidiary   .  
     
  For all purposes hereunder, except as otherwise provided by the Committee, a Grantee s employment or service with a Subsidiary shall be deemed to be terminated on the day such entity ceases to be a Subsidiary of the Company.  
     
   (d)                                         Taxes.   
     
  The Company shall be entitled to withhold, or require a participant to remit to the Company, the amount of any tax attributable to any amount payable or shares deliverable under the Program.  The Company may defer making payment or delivery if any such tax may be pending unless and until indemnified to its satisfaction, and the Company shall have no liability to any participant for exercising the foregoing right.  The Committee may, in its sole discretion and subject to such rules as it may adopt, permit or require a Grantee to pay all or a portion of the federal, state and local taxes (under U.S. or non-U.S. jurisdictions), including social security and Medicare withholding tax, arising in connection with the receipt or exercise of any Benefit; by (i) having the Company withhold Shares, (ii) tendering Shares received in connection with such Benefit back to the Company or (iii) delivering other previously acquired Shares having a Fair Market Value approximately equal to the amount to be withheld.  
     
   (e)                                          Amendment and Termination.   
     
  The Program may be amended or terminated at any time by action of the Board. However, no amendment may, without shareholder approval: (i) increase the aggregate number of shares available for Benefits (except to reflect an event described in Section 4); (ii) extend the term of the Program; or (iii) change or add a category or categories of individuals who are eligible to participate in the Program.  If the Program is not, within twelve months of the Effective Date, approved by a majority of the shares voted at a regular or special meeting of the Company s shareholders, the Program will terminate and all Benefits made under it will be canceled.  No amendment or termination of the Program (other than termination under Section 14(f) below) may materially and adversely modify any person s rights under the express terms and conditions of an outstanding Benefit without such person s written consent.  
     
   (f)                                           Duration of Program.   
     
  Unless earlier terminated by the Board pursuant to the provisions of the Program, the Program shall expire on the tenth anniversary of its Effective Date.  No Benefits shall be granted under the Program after such date.  
     
   (g)                                         No Rights to Benefits; No Shareholder Rights.   
     
  No individual shall have any claim to be granted any Benefit under the Program, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Grantees.  No individual shall have any right to a Benefit or to payment or settlement under any Benefit unless and until the Committee or its designee shall have determined that a Benefit or payment or settlement is to be made.  Except as provided specifically herein, a Grantee or a transferee of a Benefit shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to any Shares covered by the Benefit until the date of the issuance of such Shares.  
     
  14    

(h)                                         Unfunded Status of Benefits.   
     
  The Program is intended to constitute an  unfunded  plan for purposes of incentive and deferred compensation.  With respect to any payments not yet made to a Grantee pursuant to a Benefit, nothing contained in the Program or any Benefit shall give any such Grantee any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company.  
     
   (i)                                            No Fractional Shares.   
     
  No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Program or any Benefit.  The Committee shall determine whether cash, other Benefits, or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of such fractional shares or whether such fractional shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.  
     
   (j)                                            Regulations and Other Approvals.   
     
  The obligation of the Company to sell or deliver Shares with respect to any Program Benefit shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including all applicable securities laws, and the obtaining of all such approvals by governmental agencies as may be deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee.  
     
   (k)                                         Listing, Registration or Qualification of Shares.   
     
  Each Benefit is subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of Shares issuable pursuant to the Program is required by any securities exchange or under any state or federal law (or corresponding requirements under applicable laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions), or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the grant of a Benefit or the issuance of Shares, no such Benefit shall be granted or payment made or Shares issued, in whole or in part, unless listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval has been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.  
     
   (l)                                            Restricted Securities.   
     
  If the disposition of Shares acquired pursuant to the Program is not covered by a then current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 (the  Securities Act ), and is not otherwise exempt from such registration, then such Shares shall be restricted against transfer to the extent required by the Securities Act or regulations thereunder and the Committee may require a Grantee receiving Shares pursuant to the Program, as a condition precedent to receipt of such Shares, to represent to the Company in writing that the Shares acquired by such Grantee is acquired for investment only and not with a view to distribution.  
     
   (m)                                     Section 409A.   
     
  Notwithstanding any provision of the Program, to the extent that any Benefit would be subject to Code Section 409A, no such Benefit may be granted if it would fail to comply with the  
     
  15    

requirements set forth in Code Section 409A.  To the extent that the Committee determines that the Program or any Benefit is subject to Code Section 409A and fails to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Program or in any Benefit Agreement, the Committee reserves the right to amend or terminate the Program and/or amend, restructure, terminate or replace the Benefit, without the consent of the Grantee, to cause the Benefit to either not be subject to Code Section 409A or to comply with the applicable provisions of such section.  In addition, for each Benefit subject to Code Section 409A, a termination of employment or service with the Company and its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to have occurred under the Program with respect to such award on the first day on which an individual has experienced a  separation from service  within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  
     
   (n)                                         Governing Law.   
     
  The Program and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto shall be governed by the laws of the State of Illinois without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof.  
     
   (o)                                         Construction.   
     
  Any reference in the Program to any law, statute, rule, regulation, or official guidance thereunder, shall be construed as a reference to such law, statute, rule, regulation, or official guidance, as the same may be amended, from time to time, or any successor provision to such law, statute, rule, regulation or official guidance.  
     
   (p)                                         Effective Date.   
     
  This Program shall become effective as of April 24, 2009 (the  Effective Date ), subject to the approval of the shareholders of the Company.  
     
   15.                                       DEFINITIONS.     For purposes of the Program, the following terms shall be defined as set forth below:  
     
  (a)             Benefit   means a grant under the Program of any of the types of awards described in Section 5.  
     
  (b)             Benefit Agreement   means any written agreement, contract, or other instrument or document evidencing the terms and conditions of a Benefit.  
     
  (c)             Board   means the Board of Directors of the Company.  
     
  (d)             Change in Control   has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 13.  
     
  (e)             Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  
     
  (f)              Committee   has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 2.  
     
  16    

(g)             Company   or   Abbott   means Abbott Laboratories, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Illinois, or any successor corporation.  
     
  (h)             Covered Employee   has the meaning ascribed to it in Code Section 162(m)(3).  
     
  (i)              Effective Date   has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 14(p).  
     
  (j)              Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  
     
  (k)             Fair Market Value   means, with respect to Shares or other property, the fair market value of such Share or other property determined by such methods or procedures as shall be established from time to time by the Committee.  
     
  (l)              Full Value Award   means any Benefit, other than an option or Stock Appreciation Right, which Benefit is settled in Shares.  
     
  (m)            Grantee   means a person who, as a Non-Employee Director of the Company or an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, or a beneficiary or estate of such person, has been granted a Program Benefit.  
     
  (n)             Non-Employee Director   means a member of the Board who is not a full-time employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.  
     
  (o)             Nonqualified Stock Option   means any option that is not intended to be designated as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Code Section 422.  
     
  (p)             option   means a contractual right, granted to a Grantee under the Program, to purchase Shares at a specified price.  
     
  (q)             optionee   means a person who, as a Non-Employee Director of the Company or an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, or a beneficiary or estate of such person, has been granted an option.  
     
  (r)              Other Share-Based Award   means a Benefit granted to a Grantee pursuant to Section 9, which may be denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on, or related to, Shares.  
     
  (s)              Performance Goals   has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 8.  
     
  (t)              Prior Program   means the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program.  
     
  (u)             Program   means this Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program, as amended from time to time.  
     
  (v)             replacement options   has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 6(b).  
     
  (w)            Restricted Stock   or   Restricted Stock Award   means Shares awarded to a Grantee under Section 7(a), without payment, as compensation for services to the Company or its  
     
  17    

Subsidiaries, that are subject to vesting restrictions, which may include the attainment of specified Performance Goals.  
     
  (x)             Restricted Stock Unit   means a contractual right to receive a number of Shares or an amount of cash equal to the value of that number of Shares corresponding to the number of units granted to a Grantee, without payment, as compensation for services to the Company or its Subsidiaries, which right may be subject to vesting restrictions including the attainment of Performance Goals.  
     
  (y)             Senior Vice President, Human Resources   means the Company s Senior Vice President, Human Resources, or the individual holding the equivalent duties and responsibilities.  
     
  (z)             Shares   means common shares of the Company.  
     
  (aa)           Stock Appreciation Right   means an Other Share-Based Award, payable in cash or Shares, that entitles a Grantee upon exercise to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the Shares underlying the Benefit over a base price established by the Committee in respect of such Shares.  
     
  (bb)           Subsidiary   has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 13(b).  
     
  (cc)           Treasury Regulations   means the Federal tax regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Treasury.  
     
  18    

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.10>
 7
 a2212523zex-10_10.htm
 EX-10.10

Exhibit 10.10   
     
  Amended and Restated  
  effective January 1, 2013  
     
   ABBOTT LABORATORIES NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  FEE PLAN   
     
  SECTION 1.  PURPOSE  
     
  ABBOTT LABORATORIES NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  FEE PLAN - referred to below as the  Plan  - has been established by ABBOTT LABORATORIES - referred to below as the  Company  - to attract and retain as members of its Board of Directors persons who are not full-time employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries but whose business experience and judgment are a valuable asset to the Company and its subsidiaries.  
     
  SECTION 2.  DIRECTORS COVERED  
     
  As used in the Plan, the term  Director  means any person who is elected to the Board of Directors of the Company in April, 1962 or at any time thereafter, and is not a full-time employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.  
     
  SECTION 3.   FEES PAYABLE TO DIRECTORS  
     
  3.1          Each Director shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of Ten Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($10,500.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected a Director) that he holds such office with the Company.  
     
  3.2          A Director who serves as Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Six Hundred Dollars ($1,600.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  
     
  3.3          Audit Committee Fees  
     
  (a)                                     A Director who serves as Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  
     
  (b)                                     Each Director who serves on the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (other than the Chairman of the Audit Committee) shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  

3.4          A Director who serves as Chairman of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  
     
  3.5          A Director who serves as Chairman of the Nominations Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  
     
  3.6          A Director who serves as Chairman of any other Committee created by this Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  
     
  3.7          A Director s Deferred Fee Account shall be credited with interest annually. During the calendar years 1968 and prior, the rate of interest credited to deferred fees shall be four (4) percent per annum. During the calendar years 1969 through 1992, the rate of interest credited to deferred fees shall be the average of the prime rates being charged by the two largest commercial banks in the City of Chicago as of the end of the month coincident with or last preceding the date upon which said interest is so credited. During the calendar years 1993 through 2007, the rate of interest credited to deferred fees shall be equal to: (a) the average of the prime rates being charged by the two largest commercial banks in the City of Chicago as of the end of the month coincident with or last preceding the date upon which said interest is so credited; plus (b) two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  For the calendar year 2008 and subsequent years, the rate of interest credited to deferred fees shall be equal to: (a) the average of the  prime rate  of interest published by The Wall Street Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the fiscal year; plus (b) two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  For purposes of this provision, the term  deferred fees  shall include  deferred monthly fees,  and  deferred meeting fees,  and shall also include any such interest credited thereon.  
     
  3.8          For purposes of Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6, the automatic deferral of the fees specified therein shall be subject to a Director s election to receive such fees currently pursuant to Section 4.1 or Section 9.1 of the Plan.  
     
  SECTION 4.  PAYMENT OF DIRECTORS  FEES  
     
  4.1          Any Director may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company no later than December 31 in a calendar year, elect to receive current payment of all or any portion of the monthly and meeting fees earned by him in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year in which he files such notice, in which case such fees shall not be deferred but shall be paid quarterly as earned and no interest shall be credited thereon.  Such election shall be irrevocable as of December 31 of the year prior to the year in which the fees will be earned. Notwithstanding the timing requirements described above, an individual who is newly elected as a Director may make the election described above by filing it with the Secretary of the Company within the thirty (30) day period immediately following the date he or she first becomes a Director eligible  
     
  2    

to participate in the Plan (and all plans that would be aggregated with the Plan pursuant to Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)(2)(i)),  provided , that the compensation subject to such election relates solely to services performed after the date of such election and  provided   further , that such election shall become irrevocable on the thirtieth day following the date he or she first becomes a Director eligible to participate in the Plan.  In no event shall the fees subject to an election under this Section 4.1 be paid later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  Any Director who has previously provided notice pursuant to this Section 4.1 may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company no later than December 31 in a calendar year, elect to defer payment of all or a portion of the monthly and meeting fees earned by him in calendar years subsequent to the year in which he files such notice, in which case such fees shall be paid to him in accordance with Section 4.2 below.  
     
  4.2          A Director s deferred fees earned pursuant to the Plan shall commence to be paid on the first day of the calendar month next following the earlier of his death or his attainment of age sixty-five (65) if he is not then serving as a Director, or the termination of his service as a Director if he serves as a Director after the attainment of age sixty-five (65).  
     
  4.3          A Director s deferred fees that have commenced to be payable pursuant to Section 4.2 shall be payable in annual installments in the order in which they shall have been deferred (i.e., the deferred fees and earnings thereon for the earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the date provided for in Section 4.2, the deferred fees for the next earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the anniversary of the payment of the first installment, etc.).  
     
  4.4          A Director s deferred fees shall continue to be paid until all deferred fees which he is entitled to receive under the Plan shall have been paid to him (or, in case of his death, to his beneficiary).  
     
  4.5          If a Director incurs a termination of service as a Director within two (2) years following the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined below), the aggregate unpaid balance of such Director s deferred fees plus all unpaid interest credited thereon, shall be paid to such Director in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of service;  provided ,  however , that if such Change in Control does not constitute a  change in control event  (as defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5)), then the aggregate unpaid balance of such Director s deferred fees shall be paid in accordance with Sections 4.2 and 4.3.  
     
  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if a Director has made the alternative election set forth in Section 9.1, and if such Director incurs a termination of service as a Director within five (5) years following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the aggregate unpaid balance of such Director s fees deposited to the Director s Grantor Trust (as defined below) plus all unpaid interest credited thereon, shall be paid to such Director from the Director s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of service.  
     
  4.6          A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  
     
  (i)                                         the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the  
     
  3    

securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (a) of paragraph (iii) below; or  
     
  (ii)                                      the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
     
  (iii)                                   the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation or other entity, other than (a) a merger or consolidation (I) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if the Company or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (II) which results in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (b) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the  
     
  4    

combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (iv)                                  the date the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by shareholders of the Company, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale.  
     
  (1)                                     Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of the Company immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have    substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  (2)                                     For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company.  
     
  4.7          A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv), below, exist (provided, however, that  
     
  5    

a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  
     
  (i)                                         The Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (i) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  
     
  (ii)                                      Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (ii) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  
     
  (iii)                                   Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates).  
     
  (iv)                                  The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (iv) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  
     
  4.8          The provisions of Sections 4.5, 4.6, 4.7 and this Section 4.8 may not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Plan, (i) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control.  
     
  SECTION 5.  DIRECTORS  RETIREMENT BENEFIT  
     
  5.1          Effective April 30, 1998, each of the persons serving as a Director on December 12, 1997 shall be credited with a retirement benefit of $4,167 a month for 120 months of continuous service and no additional retirement benefits shall accrue under the Plan. Each of the persons serving as a Director on December 12, 1997 may elect: (a) to have his or her retirement benefit under the Plan treated as provided in Section 5.2 of the Plan; or (b) to have the present value of that retirement benefit credited to an unfunded phantom stock account and converted  
     
  6    

into phantom stock units based on the closing price of the Company s common stock on April 30, 1998, with those phantom stock units then being credited with the same cash and stock dividends, stock splits and other distributions and adjustments as are paid on the Company s common stock. The phantom stock units shall be payable to the Director in annual payments commencing on the first day of the calendar month next following the earlier of the Director s death or termination of service as a Director, in an amount determined by the closing price of the Company s common stock on the first business day preceding the payment date. Unless the retirement benefit is terminated, the annual benefit shall continue to be paid on the anniversary of the day on which the first such retirement benefit payment was made, until the benefit has been paid for ten years, or until the death of the Director or surviving spouse, if earlier. If a Director should die with such benefit still in effect, prior to receipt of all payments due hereunder, the annual benefit shall continue to be paid to the surviving spouse of such Director until all payments due hereunder have been made or until the death of the surviving spouse, if earlier.  
     
  5.2          Any person serving as a Director on December 12, 1997 who elects to have his or her retirement benefit paid pursuant to this Section 5.2 shall receive a monthly benefit equal to $4,167. Payment of the monthly benefit shall commence on the first day of the calendar month next following the earlier of the Director s death or termination of service as a Director. Unless the retirement benefit is terminated, the monthly benefit shall continue to be paid on the first day of each calendar month thereafter, until the benefit has been paid for one hundred and twenty (120) months, or until the death of the Director or surviving spouse, if earlier. If a Director should die with such benefit still in effect, prior to receipt of all payments due hereunder, the monthly benefit shall continue to the surviving spouse of such Director until all payments due hereunder have been made or until the death of the surviving spouse, if earlier.  
     
  5.3          Directors who retired on or before December 12, 1997 will receive the form and amount of retirement benefit payable under the terms of the Plan in effect at the time of their retirement.  
     
  5.4          Each Director who is granted a retirement benefit hereunder shall make him or herself available for such consultation with the Board of Directors or any committee or member thereof, as may be reasonably requested from time to time by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, following such Director s termination of service as a Director. The Company shall reimburse each such Director for all reasonable travel, lodging and subsistence expenses incurred by the Director at the request of the Company in rendering such consultation. The Company may terminate the retirement benefit if the Director should fail to render such consultation, unless prevented by disability or other reason beyond the Director s control.  
     
  5.5          It is recognized that during a Director s period of service as a Director and as a consultant hereunder, a Director will acquire knowledge of the affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries, the disclosure of which would be contrary to the best interests of the Company. Accordingly, the Company may terminate the retirement benefit if, without the express consent of the Company, the Director accepts election to the Board of Directors of, acquires a partnership or proprietary interest in, or renders services as an employee or consultant to, any business entity which is engaged in substantial competition with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.  
     
  5.6          An individual will be considered a Director s  surviving spouse  for purposes of Section 5 only if the Director and such individual were married in a religious or civil ceremony  
     
  7    

recognized under the laws of the state where the marriage was contracted and the marriage remained legally effective at the date of the Director s death.  
     
  SECTION 6.  CONVERSION TO COMMON STOCK UNITS  
     
  6.1          Any Director who is then serving as a director may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, irrevocably elect to have all or any portion of deferred fees previously earned but not yet paid, transferred from the Director s Deferred Fee Account to a stock account established under this Section 6 ( Stock Account ). Any election as to a portion of such fees shall be expressed as a percentage and the same percentage shall be applied to all such fees regardless of the calendar year in which earned or to all deferred fees earned in designated calendar years, as specified by the Director. A Director may make no more than one notional investment election under this Section 6.l in any calendar year. All such elections may apply only to deferred fees for which an election has not previously been made and shall be irrevocable.  
     
  6.2          Any Director may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, elect to have all or any portion of deferred fees earned subsequent to the date such notice is filed credited to a Stock Account established under this Section 6. Fees covered by such election shall be credited to such account at the end of each calendar quarter in, or for which, such fees are earned. Such election may be revoked or modified by such Director, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, as to deferred fees to be earned in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year such notice is filed, but shall be irrevocable as to deferred fees earned prior to such year.  
     
  6.3          Deferred fees credited to a Stock Account under Section 6.1 shall be converted to Common Stock Units by dividing the deferred fees so credited by the closing price of common shares of the Company on the date the notice of election under Section 6 is received by the Company (or the next business day, if there are no sales on such date) as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System. Deferred fees credited to a Stock Account under Section 6.2 shall be converted to Common Stock Units by dividing the deferred fees so credited by the closing price of common shares of the Company as of the last business day of the calendar quarter for which the credit is made, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.  
     
  6.4          Each Common Stock Unit shall be credited with (or adjusted for) the same cash and stock dividends, stock splits and other distributions and adjustments as are received by or applicable to one common share of the Company. All cash dividends and other cash distributions credited to Common Stock Units shall be converted to additional Common Stock Units by dividing each such dividend or distribution by the closing price of common shares of the Company on the payment date for such dividend or distribution, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.  
     
  6.5          The value of the Common Stock Units credited each Director shall be paid to the Director in cash on the dates specified in Section 4.3 (or, if applicable, Section 4.5). The amount of each payment shall be determined by multiplying the Common Stock Units payable on each date specified in Section 4.3 (or, if applicable, Section 4.5) by the closing price of common shares of the Company on the day prior to the payment date (or the next preceding business day  
     
  8    

if there are no sales on such date), as reported by the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.  
     
  SECTION 7.  MISCELLANEOUS  
     
  7.1          Each Director or former Director entitled to payment of deferred fees hereunder, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any deferred Director s fees earned by him and payable to him are to be paid in case of his death before he receives any or all of such deferred Director s fees.  Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Director or former Director, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Director or former Director in writing with the Secretary of the Company during his lifetime. If a deceased Director or former Director shall have failed to name a beneficiary in the manner provided above, or if the beneficiary named by a deceased Director or former Director dies before him or before payment of all the Director s or former Director s deferred Directors  fees, the Company, in its discretion, may direct payment of the remaining installments required by Section 4.3 to either:  
     
  (a)                                     any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the Director or former Director, and in such proportions as the Company determines; or  
     
  (b)                                     the legal representative or representatives of the estate of the last to die of the Director or former Director and his last surviving beneficiary.  
     
  The person or persons to whom any deceased Director s or former Director s deferred Directors  fees are payable under this Section will be referred to as his  beneficiary.   
     
  7.2          Establishment of the Plan and coverage thereunder of any person shall not be construed to confer any right on the part of such person to be nominated for reelection to the Board of Directors of the Company, or to be reelected to the Board of Directors.  
     
  7.3          Payment of deferred Directors  fees will be made only to the person entitled thereto in accordance with the terms of the Plan, and deferred Directors  fees are not in any way subject to the debts or other obligations of persons entitled thereto, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned. When a person entitled to a payment under the Plan is under legal disability or, in the Company s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his financial affairs, the Company may direct that payment be made to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for his benefit. Any payment made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be in complete discharge of the Company s obligation to make such payment under the Plan.  
     
  7.4          Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Company under the terms of the Plan shall be by affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors then in office.  
     
  7.5          Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, any amounts under the Plan that were earned and vested before January 1, 2005 (as determined in accordance with Code  
     
  9    

Section 409A) with respect to a Director who retired before January 1, 2005 ( Grandfathered Amounts ) shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as administered and as in effect on December 31, 2004.  Amendments made to the Plan pursuant to this amendment and restatement or otherwise shall not affect the Grandfathered Amounts unless expressly provided for in the amendment.  The terms and conditions applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto.  
     
  7.6          To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code.  The Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all purposes of this Plan, a Director shall not be deemed to have had a termination of service as a Director until the Director has incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under the Plan that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the rate specified in Section 9.8 (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the Director under Section 9.10), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  In addition, for purposes of the Plan, each amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.  
     
  7.7          Except as expressly provided herein, the provisions of the Plan as they were in effect immediately prior to the January 1, 2013 amendment shall continue to apply to any Director who retired or otherwise terminated service as a Director prior to January 1, 2013.  
     
  SECTION 8.  AMENDMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE  
     
  While the Company expects to continue the Plan, it must necessarily reserve, and does hereby reserve, the right to amend or discontinue the Plan at any time; provided, however, that any amendment or discontinuance of the Plan shall be prospective in operation only, and shall not affect the payment of any deferred Directors  fees theretofore earned by any Director, or the conditions under which any such fees are to be paid or forfeited under the Plan. Any discontinuance of the Plan by the Company shall comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.  
     
  SECTION 9.  ALTERNATE PAYMENT OF FEES  
     
  9.1          By written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company prior to each calendar year beginning after December 31, 1988, a Director may elect to receive all or a portion of his fees earned in the following calendar year in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.  An election under this Section 9.1 shall become irrevocable as of December 31 of the calendar year prior to the year in which such monthly and meeting fees will be earned (or, in the case of a new  
     
  10    

Director, on the 30  th   day following the Director s first participation in the Plan and all plans that would be aggregated with the Plan pursuant to Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)(2)(i),  provided , that the compensation subject to such election relates solely to services performed after the date of such election).  
     
  9.2          If payment of a Director s fees is made pursuant to Section 9.1, such fees shall not be deferred and a portion of the gross amount of such fees shall be paid currently in cash for the Director directly to a  Grantor Trust  established by the Director, provided such trust is in a form which the Company determines to be substantially similar to the trust attached to this plan as Exhibit  and the balance of the gross amount of such fees shall be paid currently in cash directly to the Director, provided that the portion paid directly to the Director shall be an amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the gross fees paid pursuant to this Section 9.2 (determined in accordance with Section 9.14).  In no event shall such fees be paid to the Grantor Trust or directly to the Director later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  
     
  9.3          The Company will establish and maintain four separate accounts in the name of each Director who has made an election under Section 9.1 as follows: a  Pre-Tax Fee Account,  an  After-Tax Fee Account,  a  Pre-Tax Stock Account  and an  After-Tax Stock Account  (collectively, the  Accounts ).  
     
  (a)                                     The Pre-Tax Fee Account shall reflect the total amount of any fees paid in cash to a Director or deposited to a Director s Grantor Trust, including the amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees paid pursuant to Section 9.2, and Interest to be credited to a Director pursuant to Section 9.8.  The After-Tax Fee Account shall reflect such gross amounts but shall be maintained on an after-tax basis.  
     
  (b)                                     The Pre-Tax Stock Account shall reflect the total amount of fees converted to Common Stock Units pursuant to Section 6, including the amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees paid pursuant to Section 9.2, and any adjustments made pursuant to Section 9.9. The After-Tax Stock Account shall reflect such gross amounts but shall be maintained on an after-tax basis.  
     
  (c)                                      The Accounts established pursuant to this Section 9.3 are for the convenience of the administration of the Plan and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied.  
     
  9.4          As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account as follows:  
     
  11    

(a)                                     FIRST, charge, in any year in which the Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount equal to the      distribution from the fee account maintained thereunder that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts paid according to Section 9.2 had instead been deferred under Section   
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, credit an amount equal to the gross amount of any fees paid for that year, not converted to Common Stock Units, that are paid to the Director (including the amount deposited in the Director s Grantor Trust and the amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees paid pursuant to Section 9.2) according to Section 9.2; and  
     
  (c)                                      FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Interest earned for that year according to Section 9.8.  
     
  9.5          As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director s After-Tax Fee Account as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, charge, in any year in which the Director is in receipt of a benefit distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount equal to the product of (i) the distribution that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts paid according to Section 9.2 had instead been deferred under Section 3, multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the Director s After-Tax Fee Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is the balance of the Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account as of that same date;  
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, credit an amount equal to the fees not converted to Common Stock Units that are paid that year to the Director directly to the Director s Grantor Trust according to Section 9.2; and  
     
  (c)                                      FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest earned for that year according to Section 9.8.  
     
  9.6          As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, charge, in any year in which the Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amount of fees paid according to Section 9.2 had instead been deferred under Section 3 and the adjustments had been made under Section   
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, credit an amount equal to the total amount of any fees for that year that are converted to Common Stock Units and paid to the Director (including the amount deposited in the Director s Grantor Trust and the amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income  
     
  12    

taxes attributable to the fees paid pursuant to Section 9.2) and allocated to the Stock Account maintained thereunder) according to Section 9.2; and  
     
  (c)                                      NEXT, credit an amount equal to the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust for the year; and  
     
  (d)                                     FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Book Value Adjustments to be made for that year according to Section 9.9.  
     
  9.7          As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director s After-Tax Stock Account as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, charge, in any year in which the Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount equal to the product of (i) the distribution that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts paid according to Section 9.2 had instead been deferred under Section 3 and the adjustments had been made under Section 6, multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the Director s After-Tax Stock Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is the balance of the Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account as of that same date;  
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, credit an amount equal to the fees converted to Common Stock Units that are paid that year to the Director directly to the Director s Grantor Trust and allocated to the Stock Account maintained thereunder according to Section 9.2; and  
     
  (c)                                      NEXT, credit an amount equal to the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust for the year; and  
     
  (d)                                     FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Book Value Adjustments to be made for that year according to Section 9.9.  
     
  9.8          The Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account and After-Tax Fee Account shall be credited with interest as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     As of the end of each calendar year, a Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account shall be credited with interest ( Interest ) at the following rate:  
     
  (i)                                         the average of the  prime rate  of interest published by the Wall Street Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the fiscal year;  
     
  (ii)                                      plus two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  
     
  (b)                                     As of the end of each calendar year, a Director s After-Tax Fee Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest set forth above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable federal, state and local  
     
  13    

individual income tax rates and employment tax rate, determined in accordance with subsection 8.5) (the  After-Tax Interest ).  
     
  9.9          As of the end of each calendar year, a Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account and After-Tax Stock Account shall be adjusted as provided in Section 6.4, to the extent applicable, and shall also be adjusted to reflect the increase or decrease in the fair market value of the Company s common stock determined in accordance with Section 6.5, except that (i) any reference to the payment date in such Section shall mean December 31 of the applicable calendar year for purposes of this Section, and (ii) adjustments to the After-Tax Stock Account shall be made on an after-tax basis.  Such adjustments shall be referred to as  Book Value Adjustments.   
     
  9.10        In addition to any fees paid to a Director s Grantor Trust under Section 9.2 during the year, the Company shall also make a payment (an  Interest Payment ) with respect to each Director who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  Prior to January 1, 2013, the Interest Payment equaled the excess, if any, of the Director s Net Interest Accrual (as defined below) over the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust for the year (the  Pre-Amendment Amount ) and was paid to the Director s Grantor Trust within thirty (30) days beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  Effective as January 1, 2013, the Interest Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the gross amount of the Interest credited to the Director (as defined in Section 9.8(a)), over the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust for the year, as adjusted by the amounts described in Schedule A, and shall be paid within thirty (30) days beginning April 1 of the following calendar year.  A portion of such gross Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust (i.e., the Pre-Amendment Amount), shall be deposited in the Director s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to the Director; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust exceeds the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with Section 9.15.  A Director s Net Interest Accrual for a year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest credited to the Director s After-Tax Fee Account for that year in accordance with Section 9.8(b).  
     
  9.11        In addition to the fees paid under Section 9.2 during the year and the Interest Payment described above, the Company shall also make a payment (a  Principal Payment ) with respect to each Director who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect, to be credited to the Stock Account maintained thereunder.  Prior to January 1, 2013, the Principal Payment equaled the excess, if any, of 75 percent of the fair market value (as determined in accordance with Section 6.5) of the balance of the Director s After-Tax Stock Account on December 31 over the balance in the Stock Account maintained under the Director s Grantor Trust as of that same date, and was paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following calendar year.  Effective as of January 1, 2013, the Principal Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of 75 percent of the fair market value (as determined in accordance with Section 6.5) of the balance of the Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account on December 31 over the balance in the Stock Account maintained under the Director s Grantor Trust as of that same date, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following calendar year.  For the calendar year in which the last installment distribution is made from the Director s Grantor Trust (meaning, the year that is X years following the year of the event triggering the payments, where X is the same number of years served by the Director), the payment made under this Section 9.11 shall equal the excess, if any, of 100 percent of the  
     
  14    

balance of the Director s After-Tax Stock Account over the balance in the Stock Account maintained under the Director s Grantor Trust as of that same date.  
     
  9.12        Each Director s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit B.  
     
  9.13        For purposes of Section 9, a Director s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal individual income tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under this Section is to be made and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the Director s residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a Director is not a citizen or resident of the United States, his or her income tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal income tax rates actually imposed on the Director s benefits under this Plan or earnings under his or her Grantor Trust without a benefit for any net capital losses.  
     
  9.14        If a portion of a Director s fees have been paid to a Grantor Trust pursuant to Section 9.2, then those fees and earnings thereon shall be paid to him or her from the Grantor Trust in the order in which they were earned (i.e., the fees for the earliest year of service as a Director will be the first fees distributed from the Grantor Trust(s), the fees for the next earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the anniversary of the payment of the first installment, etc.)  The distribution of a Director s fees shall continue until all fees to which the Director is entitled to receive under the Plan shall have been paid in accordance with the terms of the Grantor Trust(s).  
     
  9.15        Abbott, as the administrator of the Director s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to the Director from the income of such Grantor Trust, a sum of money sufficient to pay the taxes on trust earnings for such year, to the extent a sufficient sum of money has not been paid to the Director pursuant to Section 9.10 or 9.11, as applicable.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with Section 9.13.  
     
  9.16        Abbott, as the administrator of the Director s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to pay the appropriate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees and other payments paid to the Director pursuant to Sections 9.2, 9.10 and 9.11 to the applicable tax authorities on behalf of the Director.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with Section 9.13.  
     
  15    

Exhibit A   
     
   ABBOTT LABORATORIES NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  FEE PLAN   
     
  [Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors  Fee Plan, as amended, as filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 17, 2006.]  
     
  2    

Exhibit B   
     
   IRREVOCABLE GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT, made this              day of                             , 20      , by and between                                                    of                           ,                          (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  
     
  WITNESSETH THAT:  
     
  WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors  Fee Plan, as it may be amended from time to time;  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows:  
     
   ARTICLE I  Introduction   
     
  I-1.           Name .  This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to as the                                 Grantor Trust.   
     
  I-2.           The Trust Fund .  The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  
     
  I-3.           Status of the Trust .  The trust shall be irrevocable.  The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  
     
  I-4.           The Administrator .  Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below.  Abbott will certify to the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the administrator.  The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  
     
  I-5.           Acceptance .  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.  

ARTICLE II  Distribution of the Trust Fund   
     
  II-1.         Separate Accounts .  The administrator shall maintain two separate accounts under the trust, a  deferred account  and a  stock account.  Funds delivered to the trustee shall be allocated between the accounts by the trustee as directed by the administrator.  As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge each account with all distributions made from such account during that year; and credit each account with its share of income and realized gains and charge each account with its share of expenses and realized losses for the year.  The trustee shall be required to make separate investments of the trust fund for the accounts, and may not administer and invest all funds delivered to it under the trust as one trust fund.  
     
  II-2.         Distributions Prior to the Grantor s Death .  Principal and accumulated income shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s termination of service as a Director of Abbott (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the trust fund for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in the trust.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date.  Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the trust fund to the grantor, if then living, in a series of annual installments, commencing on the first day of the month next following the later of the grantor s settlement date or the date the grantor attains age 65 years.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the number of installment distributions and the amount of each installment distribution under this paragraph II-2, and the trustee shall be fully protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  
     
  II-3.         Distributions After the Grantor s Death .  The grantor, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof shall be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s death.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.  
     
  2    

II-4.         Facility of Payment .  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  
     
  II-5.         Perpetuities .  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  
     
   ARTICLE III  Management of the Trust Fund   
     
  III-1.       General Powers .  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  
     
  (a)                                     Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  
     
  (b)                                     To retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in common stock of Abbott Laboratories, or in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  
     
  (c)                                      To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such depositary.  
     
  (d)                                     To invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the trustee solely for the investment of trust funds.  
     
  (e)                                      To borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  
     
  3    

(f)                                       To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  
     
  (g)                                      To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  
     
  (h)                                     To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  
     
  (i)                                         To give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  
     
  (j)                                        To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  
     
  (k)                                     To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  
     
  (l)                                         To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee considers necessary for its protection.  
     
  (m)                                 To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity, without liability for any loss that may result.  
     
  (n)                                     To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  
     
  (o)                                     To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  
     
  (p)                                     To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be  
     
  4    

protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.  
     
  (q)                                     To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  
     
  III-2.       Principal and Income .  Any income earned on the trust fund, which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust.  The grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  
     
  III-3.       Statements .  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period.  
     
  III-4.       Compensation and Expenses .  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  
     
   ARTICLE IV  General Provisions   
     
  IV-1.        Interests Not Transferable .  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  
     
  IV-2.        Disagreement as to Acts .  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper court.  
     
  IV-3.        Trustee s Obligations .  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or distribution.  The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement.  
     
  IV-4.        Good Faith Actions .  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee.  
     
  5    

IV-5.        Waiver of Notice .  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  IV-6.        Controlling Law .  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  
     
  IV-7.        Successors .  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  
     
   ARTICLE V  Changes in Trustee   
     
  V-1.         Resignation or Removal of Trustee .  The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty days  advance written notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  
     
  V-2.         Appointment of Successor Trustee .  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement.  A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  
     
  V-3.         Duties of Resigning or Removed Trustee and of Successor Trustee .  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account.  Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee.  With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  
     
   ARTICLE VI  Amendment and Termination   
     
  VI-1.        Amendment .  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  
     
  (b)                                     This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.  
     
  6    

VI-2.        Termination .  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II.  
     
  *              *              *  
     
  7    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor has executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor           

The Northern Trust Company as Trustee           

By       

Its       

8    

</EX-10.10>

<EX-12>
 8
 a2212523zex-12.htm
 EX-12

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 12            

Abbott Laboratories   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   (Unaudited)   (dollars in millions)            

NOTE:
For the purpose of calculating this ratio, (i) earnings from continuing operations have been calculated by adjusting earnings from continuing operations for taxes on earnings from
continuing operations; interest expense; amortization of capitalized interest, net of capitalized interest; noncontrolling interest; and the portion of rentals representative of the interest factor,
(ii) Abbott considers one-third of rental expense to be the amount representing return on capital, and (iii) fixed charges comprise total interest expense, including
capitalized interest and such portion of rentals.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 12   
 
  Abbott Laboratories Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges (Unaudited) (dollars in millions)   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 9
 a2212523zex-21.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21   
     
   SUBSIDIARIES OF ABBOTT LABORATORIES   
     
  The following is a list of subsidiaries of Abbott Laboratories as of December 31, 2012.  Abbott Laboratories is not a subsidiary of any other corporation.  Where ownership of a subsidiary is less than 100% by Abbott Laboratories or an Abbott Laboratories  subsidiary, such has been noted by designating the percentage of ownership.  

Domestic Subsidiaries        

Incorporation            

Abbott   Administration Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Biologicals, LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Cardiovascular Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Cardiovascular Systems Inc.       

California           

Abbott   Delaware Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Diabetes Care Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Diabetes Care Sales Corporation       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Endocrine Inc.*       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Endocrinology Inc. *       

Delaware           

Abbott   Equity Investments LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Exchange Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Health Products, LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   International LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Laboratories Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Laboratories International LLC       

Illinois           

Abbott   Laboratories Pacific Ltd       

Illinois           

Abbott   Laboratories Residential Development Fund, Inc.       

Illinois           

Abbott   Laboratories Services Corp.       

Illinois           

Abbott   Management LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Medical Optics Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Molecular Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Nutrition Manufacturing Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Personnel Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Point of Care Inc.       

Delaware              

Abbott   Procurement LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Products Operations, LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Resources Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Resources International Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Universal LLC       

Delaware           

Abbott   Vascular Inc.       

Delaware           

Abbott   Vascular Solutions Inc.       

Indiana           

Abbott   Ventures Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Bioresearch Center Inc. *       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Biotech Ventures Inc. *       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Biotherapeutics Inc. *       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Holdings Inc. *       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Inc. *       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Products LLC*       

Georgia           

AbbVie   Purchasing LLC *       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Resources Inc. *       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Resources International Inc. *       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Respiratory LLC *       

Delaware           

AbbVie   US LLC *       

Delaware           

Aeropharm   Technology, LLC *       

Delaware           

AMO   Development, LLC       

Delaware           

AMO   Holdings, Inc.       

Delaware           

AMO   Manufacturing USA, LLC       

Delaware           

AMO   Nominee Holdings, LLC       

Delaware           

AMO   Sales and Service, Inc.       

Delaware           

AMO   Spain Holdings, LLC       

Delaware           

AMO   U.K. Holdings, LLC       

Delaware           

AMO   US Holdings, LLC       

Delaware           

AMO   USA Sales Holdings, Inc.       

Delaware           

AMO   USA, LLC       

Delaware              
     
  2    

AMO   WaveFront Sciences, LLC       

New   Mexico           

AVI   Corp.       

Delaware           

Bioabsorbable   Vascular Solutions, Inc.       

Delaware           

BioDisplay   Technologies, Inc. *       

Illinois           

CMM   Transportation, Inc.       

Delaware           

CynoGen   Inc.       

Delaware           

Evalve   International, Inc.       

Delaware           

Evalve, Inc.       

Delaware           

Fournier   Pharma Corp.       

Delaware           

Fremont   Holding L.L.C. *       

Delaware           

Ibis   Biosciences, Inc.       

Delaware           

IEP   Pharmaceutical Devices, LLC *       

Delaware           

IMTC   Technologies, Inc.       

Delaware           

Integrated   Surgical Solutions, LLC       

Delaware           

Integrated   Vascular Systems, LLC       

Delaware           

Knoll   Pharmaceutical Company *       

New   Jersey           

Kos   Pharmaceuticals, Inc. *       

Delaware           

Life   Properties Inc.*       

Delaware           

Murex   Diagnostics, Inc.       

Delaware           

Natural   Supplement Association Incorporated       

Colorado           

North   Shore Properties, Inc.       

Delaware           

Organics   L.L.C. *       

Delaware           

PDD   II, LLC       

Delaware           

PDD,   LLC       

Delaware           

Quest   Vision Technology, Inc.       

California           

Rowell   Laboratories, Inc. *       

Minnesota           

Starlims   Corporation       

Florida           

Swan-Myers, Incorporated       

Indiana           

Tobal   Products Incorporated       

Illinois           

Unimed   Pharmaceuticals, LLC *       

Delaware           

Visiogen, Inc.       

Delaware              
     
  3    

Woodside   Biomedical, Inc.       

Delaware           

X   Technologies Inc.       

Delaware           

ZonePerfect   Nutrition Company       

Delaware           

Foreign Subsidiaries        

Incorporation        

Abbott Products Algerie EURL       

Algeria       

Abbott Laboratories Argentina Sociedad Anonima       

Argentina       

Murex Argentina S.A.       

Argentina       

(65       
 
  )%           

AbbVie S.A. *       

Argentina       

AMO Australia Pty Limited       

Australia       

Abbott Australasia Pty Ltd       

Australia       

Abbott Products Pty Ltd       

Australia       

AbbVie Pty Ltd *       

Australia       

Abbott Gesellschaft   m.b.H.       

Austria       

AbbVie GmbH *       

Austria       

Abbott Bahamas Overseas Businesses Corporation       

Bahamas       

Abbott Holdings Ltd. (Bahamas)       

Bahamas       

AbbVie Bahamas Ltd. *       

Bahamas       

Abbott Laboratories (Bangladesh) Limited       

Bangladesh       

Murex Diagnostics International Inc.       

Barbados       

Abbott Belgian Investments SPRL       

Belgium       

Abbott Belgian Pension Fund A.S.B.L..       

Belgium       

Abbott SA *       

Belgium       

Abbott Vascular International BVBA       

Belgium       

Abbott Products SA       

Belgium       

Abbott Healthcare SAS       

Belgium       

AbbVie SA *       

Belgium       

Abbott Diagnostics International, Ltd       

Bermuda       

Abbott Ireland       

Bermuda       

Abbott Strategic Opportunities Limited       

Bermuda       

Abbott Healthcare (Puerto Rico) Ltd.       

Bermuda       

4    

Abbott Bermuda Holding Ltd.       

Bermuda       

AbbVie Ltd *       

Bermuda       

AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd *       

Bermuda       

Abbott dru tvo sa ogranicenom odgovorno cu za   trgovinu i usluge       

Bosnia       

Abbott Laboratorios   do Brasil Ltda.       

Brazil       

AbbVie Participa  es Ltda. *       

Brazil       

AbbVie Farmac utica Ltda **       

Brazil       

Abbott Products EOOD       

Bulgaria       

Abbott (Cambodia) LLC       

Cambodia       

Abbott International Corporation       

Canada       

Abbott Laboratories, Limited/Laboratoires Abbott,   Limitee       

Canada       

Abbott Point of Care Canada Limited       

Canada       

Experimental   Applied Sciences Canada   Inc.       

Canada       

Fournier Pharma, Inc.       

Canada       

Starlims Canada, Inc.       

Canada       

AMO Canada Company       

Canada       

Abbott Products Canada Inc.       

Canada       

Abbott Products Inc.       

Canada       

AbbVie Corporation *       

Canada       

AbbVie Holdings Corporation *       

Canada       

AMO Global Holdings(Holding company)       

Cayman   Islands       

AMO Ireland       

Cayman   Islands       

AMO Puerto Rico Manufacturing, Inc.       

Cayman   Islands       

VISX       

Cayman   Islands       

Abbott Laboratories de   Chile Limitada       

Chile       

AbbVie Productos Farmac uticos Limitada *       

Chile       

Abbott Laboratories de   Colombia, S.A.       

Colombia       

AbbVie SAS *       

Colombia       

Abbott Healthcare Costa Rica, S.A.       

Costa   Rica       

5    

Abbott Vascular Limitada       

Costa   Rica       

Abbott Laboratories d.o.o.       

Croatia       

Abbott Products d.o.o. for Services       

Croatia       

AbbVie   dru tvo s ograni enom odgovorno  u za trgovinu i usluge   (Abbreviated name: AbbVie d.o.o.) *       

Croatia       

Abbott Overseas Subsidiary Holding (Cyprus)   Limited       

Cyprus       

AbbVie Limited *       

Cyprus       

Abbott Laboratories, s.r.o.       

Czech   Republic       

AbbVie s.r.o. *       

Czech   Republic       

Abbott Laboratories A/S       

Denmark       

AMO Denmark       

Denmark       

AbbVie A/S *       

Denmark       

Abbott Laboratorios   del Ecuador Cia.   Ltda.       

Ecuador       

Abbott Healthcare LLC       

Egypt       

Abbott Limited Egypt LLC       

Egypt       

Abbott Products Egypt LLC       

Egypt       

Abbott Products Limited       

Egypt       

Abbott, S.A. de C.V.       

EL   Salvador       

Abbott Oy       

Finland       

AbbVie Oy *       

Finland       

Abbott France   Instruments S.A.S.       

France       

Abbott France S.A.S.       

France       

AMO France S.A.S.       

France       

Laboratoires Fournier   S.A.S.       

France       

Abbott Products S.A.S.       

France       

Vivasol SNC       

France       

Abbott Healthcare SAS       

France       

Fournier Industrie et   Sante       

France       

AbbVie *       

France       

AbbVie Holdings *       

France       

Abbott Laboratories   GmbH       

Germany       

6    

Abbott Arzneimittel GmbH       

Germany       

Starlims Germany GmbH        

Germany       

Abbott Diagnostics GmbH       

Germany       

Abbott GmbH   Co. KG       

Germany       

Abbott Holding GmbH       

Germany       

Abbott Management GmbH       

Germany       

Abbott Products GmbH*       

Germany       

Abbott Vascular   Deutschland GmbH       

Germany       

Abbott Vascular   Instruments Deutschland GmbH       

Germany       

AMO Germany GmbH       

Germany       

Fournier Pharma GmbH       

Germany       

AbbVie Komplement r GmbH *       

Germany       

AbbVie Deutschland   GmbH   Co. KG *       

Germany       

AbbVie Real Estate Management GmbH *       

Germany       

AbbVie Biotechnology GmbH *       

Germany       

Abbott Asia (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar       

Abbott Asia Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar       

Abbott Holding (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar       

Abbott Holding Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar       

AbbVie (Gibraltar) Limited *       

Gibraltar       

AbbVie (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited *       

Gibraltar       

Abbott Laboratories (Hellas) S.A.       

Greece       

AbbVie Pharmaceuticals Societe Anonyme *       

Greece       

Abbott Laboratorios, S.A.       

Guatemala       

AMO Asia Limited       

Hong   Kong       

Abbott Laboratories Limited       

Hong   Kong       

Starlims Asia Pacific Limited       

Hong   Kong       

AbbVie Limited *       

Hong   Kong       

Abbott   Laboratories (Hungary) Health Products and Medical Equipment Trading and   Servicing Limited Liability Company       

Hungary       

AbbVie   Gy gyszer szeti Korl tolt Felel ss g  T rsas g (abbreviated name:   AbbVie Kft.) *       

Hungary       

7    

AbbVie   Investment Hungary Korl tolt Felel ss g  T rsas g (abbreviated   name: AbbVie Investment Kft.) *       

Hungary       

Abbott Healthcare Private Limited       

India       

Abbott India Limited       

India       

Abbott Medical Optics Private Limited       

India       

Abbott Truecare Pharma Private Limited       

India       

Abind Healthcare Pvt. Ltd.       

India       

PT. Abbott Indonesia       

Indonesia       

(99       
 
  )%           

PT. Abbott Products Indonesia       

Indonesia       

AMO International Holdings       

Ireland       

AMO Ireland Export Ltd.       

Ireland       

AMO Ireland Finance       

Ireland       

AMO Regional Holdings       

Ireland       

Abbott Laboratories Vascular Enterprises       

Ireland       

Abbott Laboratories, Ireland, Limited       

Ireland       

Abbott Mature Products International Limited       

Ireland       

Abbott Mature Products Management Limited       

Ireland       

Abbott Nutrition Limited       

Ireland       

Abbott Products       

Ireland       

Salviac Limited       

Ireland       

Abbott Ireland Limited       

Ireland       

Abbott Healthcare Products Limited       

Ireland       

AbbVie Limited *       

Ireland       

AbbVie Ireland Holdings Limited *       

Ireland       

AbbVie Ireland Limited *       

Ireland       

Fournier Laboratories Ireland Ltd.*       

Ireland       

AbbVie Manufacturing Management Limited *       

Ireland       

Abbott Medical Laboratories LTD       

Israel       

STARLIMS Technologies LTD       

Israel       

Abbott AVI s.r.l.       

Italy       

Abbott S.r.l.       

Italy       

8    

Abbott Vascular Knoll-Ravizza S.p.A       

Italy       

Autonomous Employee Welfare Fund for Abbott S.p.A.   Dirigenti       

Italy       

AMO Italy Srl       

Italy       

AbbVie S.r.l. *       

Italy       

Abbott West Indies Limited       

Jamaica       

(51       
 
  )%           

AMO Japan K.K.       

Japan       

Abbott Japan Co., Ltd.       

Japan       

Abbott Vascular Japan Co., Ltd.       

Japan       

AbbVie GK *       

Japan       

AbbVie Holdings *       

Japan       

AbbVie Ltd *       

Jersey       

AbbVie Ltd *       

Korea,   South       

Abbott Korea Limited       

Korea,   South       

Abbott Laboratories Baltics       

Latvia       

Abbott Middle East S.A.R.L.       

Lebanon       

UAB  Abbott Laboratories        

Lithuania       

AbbVie UAB *       

Lithuania       

Abbott Asia (Gibraltar) Limited Luxembourg S.C.S.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott Healthcare Luxembourg S. . r.l.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott International Luxembourg S. . r.l.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott Investments Luxembourg S. .r.l.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott Overseas Luxembourg S. . r.l.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott Products Luxembourg S. . r.l.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott South Africa Luxembourg S. . r.l.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott Holding Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited       

Luxembourg       

Abbott Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited Luxembourg   S.C.S.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott Asia Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited   Luxembourg S.C.S.       

Luxembourg       

AbbVie (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited Luxembourg   S.C.S. *       

Luxembourg       

AbbVie Investments S.  r.l. *       

Luxembourg       

AbbVie International S.  r.l. *       

Luxembourg       

9    

AbbVie Overseas S.  r.l. *       

Luxembourg       

Abbott Laboratories   (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.       

Malaysia       

AbbVie Sdn. Bhd. *       

Malaysia       

AMO Malta       

Malta       

Abbott Laboratories   de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.       

Mexico       

AbbVie   Farmac uticos, S.A. de C.V. *       

Mexico       

Abbott Laboratories   (Mozambique), Limitada       

Mozambique       

AMO Groningen       

Netherlands       

Abbott B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott Biologicals B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott Healthcare B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott Healthcare Products B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott Knoll Investments B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott Laboratories B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott Logistics B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott Netherlands Investments B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott Nederland C.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott PR Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott Products B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott Vascular Netherlands B.V.       

Netherlands       

EAS International B.V.       

Netherlands       

IMTC Finance B.V.       

Netherlands       

IMTC Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands       

STARLIMS Netherlands B.V.       

Netherlands       

AbbVie B.V. *       

Netherlands       

AbbVie Logistics B.V. *       

Netherlands       

AbbVie Japan Holdings B.V. *       

Netherlands       

AbbVie Ireland NL B.V.   *       

Netherlands       

AbbVie Nederland   Holdings B.V.   *       

Netherlands       

10    

AbbVie Venezuela Holdings B.V. *       

Netherlands       

AbbVie Venezuela B.V.   **       

Netherlands       

AbbVie Research B.V. *       

Netherlands       

AbbVie Pharmaceuticals B.V. *       

Netherlands       

Abbott Laboratories NZ Limited       

New   Zealand       

STARLIMS New Zealand Limited       

New   Zealand       

AbbVie Limited *       

New   Zealand       

Abbott Norge AS       

Norway       

AbbVie AS *       

Norway       

AMO Norway AS       

Norway       

Abbott Laboratories (Pakistan) Limited       

Pakistan       

Abbott Laboratories, C.A.       

Panama       

Abbott Overseas, S.A.       

Panama       

AMO (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

AMO (Shanghai) Medical Devices Trading   Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

Abbott (Guangzhou) Nutritionals Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

Abbott (Jiaxing) Nutrition Co. Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

Abbott Laboratories Trading (Shanghai)   Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

Abbott Medical Devices Trading (Shanghai)   Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

Shanghai Abbott Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

(75       
 
  )%           

AbbVie Pharmaceutical Trading (Shanghai)   Co., Ltd. *       

People s   Republic of China       

Abbott Laboratorios S.A.       

Peru       

Abbott Laboratories (Philippines)       

Philippines       

Union-Madison Realty Company, Inc.       

Philippines       

(40       
 
  )%           

Abbott Products (Philippines) Inc.       

Philippines       

Abbott Laboratories Poland Sp z.o.o.       

Poland       

Abbott Products Sp. z.o.o.       

Poland       

AbbVie Sp. z.o.o.   *       

Poland       

AbbVie Polska Sp. z.o.o.   *       

Poland       

Abbott Laboratorios,   Limitada       

Portugal       

11    

Abbottfarma -   Promocao de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda       

Portugal       

Premier - Promocao   de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda       

Portugal       

AbbVie, L.da   *       

Portugal       

AbbVie Promo  o, L.da   *       

Portugal       

Abbott Healthcare (Puerto Rico) Ltd       

Puerto   Rico       

Abbott Laboratories (Puerto Rico) Incorporated       

Puerto   Rico       

AbbVie Corp *       

Puerto   Rico       

Knoll LLC *       

Puerto   Rico       

Abbott Products Romania S.R.L.       

Romania       

Limited Liability Company  Abbott Laboratories        

Russia       

Abbott Products Limited Liability Company       

Russia       

AbbVie   Limited Liability Company *       

Russia       

AMO Singapore Pte. Limited       

Singapore       

Abbott Laboratories (Singapore) Private Limited       

Singapore       

Abbott Manufacturing Singapore Private Limited       

Singapore       

Starlims (SEA) PTE. LTD.       

Singapore       

3A Pharma Singapore Pte. Limited (Singco)       

Singapore       

AbbVie Pte. Ltd. *       

Singapore       

Abbott Laboratories Slovakia s.r.o.       

Slovakia       

AbbVie s.r.o. *       

Slovakia       

AbbVie Holdings s.r.o. *       

Slovakia       

Abbott Laboratories druzba za farmacijo in   diagnostiko d.o.o.       

Slovenia       

Abbott Laboratories South Africa (Pty) Ltd.       

South   Africa       

Experimental   Applied Sciences Africa   (Proprietary) Limited       

South   Africa       

Knoll Pharmaceuticals South Africa (Proprietary)   Limited       

South   Africa       

AbbVie (Pty) Ltd. *       

South   Africa       

STARLIMS Ib rica, S.A.       

Spain       

AMO Manufacturing Spain, S.L.       

Spain       

Abbott Laboratories, S.A.       

Spain       

AbbVie Farmaceutica, S.L. *       

Spain       

12    

Fundaci n AbbVie   *       

Spain       

Abbott Medical Optics Norden AB       

Sweden       

Abbott Scandinavia AB       

Sweden       

Advanced Medical Optics Uppsala AB       

Sweden       

AbbVie AB   *       

Sweden       

AMO Switzerland GmbH       

Switzerland       

Abbott AG       

Switzerland       

Abbott Finance Company SA       

Switzerland       

Abbott Laboratories SA       

Switzerland       

Abbott Products Operations AG       

Switzerland       

AbbVie AG   *       

Switzerland       

AbbVie Pharmaceuticals   GmbH   *       

Switzerland       

Abbott Fund Tanzania Limited       

Tanzania       

Abbott Laboratories Tanzania Limited       

Tanzania       

Abbott Laboratories Ltd.       

Thailand       

Abbott Laboratuarlari Ithalat Ihracat Ve Ticaret   Limited Sirketi       

Turkey       

AbbVie Tibbi  la lar Sanayi ve Ticaret   Limited  irketi *       

Turkey       

Limited Liability Company   Abbott Ukraine        

Ukraine       

Abbott Healthcare Products Ltd.       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Australasia Holdings Limited       

United   Kingdom       

British Colloids       

United   Kingdom       

Mansbridge Pharmaceuticals Ltd.       

United   Kingdom       

AMO United Kingdom Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott (UK) Finance Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott (UK) Holdings Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Asia Holdings Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Asia Investments Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Capital India Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Diabetes Care Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Equity Holdings Unlimited       

United   Kingdom       

13    

Abbott Iberian Investments (2) Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Iberian Investments Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Investments Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Knoll Investments B.V.       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Laboratories Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Laboratories Trustee Company Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Vascular Devices (2) Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Vascular Devices Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Experimental and Applied Sciences UK Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Fournier Pharmaceuticals Ltd.       

United   Kingdom       

Knoll (UK) Investments Unlimited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Biotech (UK) Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Murex Biotech Limited       

United   Kingdom       

STARLIMS Europe Limited       

United   Kingdom       

AbbVie Ltd *       

United   Kingdom       

AbbVie UK Holdco Limited *       

United   Kingdom       

AbbVie Trustee Company Limited *       

United   Kingdom       

AbbVie Australasia Holdings Limited *       

United   Kingdom       

AbbVie Investments Limited *       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott Laboratories Uruguay S.A.       

Uruguay       

Lirdow S.A.       

Uruguay       

Abbott Laboratories C.A.       

Venezuela       

AbbVie Pharmaceuticals SCA **       

Venezuela       

Abbott Trading Company, Inc.       

Virgin   Islands       

*    Indicates subsidiaries distributed as part of AbbVie Inc. on January 1, 2013.  
  **  Indicates subsidiaries that will be distributed to AbbVie Inc. in 2013 or thereafter  
     
  14    

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 10
 a2212523zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

          We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-158782 on Form S-8
for the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program; Registration Statement Nos. 333-09071, 333-43381, 333-69547, 333-93253,
333-52768, 333-74228, 333-102178, 333-109250, 333-124850, and 333-158782 on Form S-8 for the Abbott
Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program; Registration Statement Nos. 333-74220, 333-102179, 333-124851, 333-153200, and 333-169886
on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan; Registration Statement Nos. 33-26685, 33-50452, 33-51585,
33-56897, 33-65127, 333-19511, 333-43383, 333-69579, 333-93257, 333-74224, 333-102180,
333-109253, 333-124849, 333-141116, 333-153198, and 333-169888 on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement
Program and Trusts; Registration Statement No. 333-158124 on Form S-8 for the Amended and Restated Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2002 Incentive
Compensation Plan, as amended, the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, the Advanced Medical Optics, Inc.
2005 Incentive Compensation Plan, the VISX, Incorporated 2001 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, the VISX, Incorporated 2000 Stock Plan, the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Director Option and Stock Deferral
Plan, as amended and restated, and the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Stock Plan, as amended; and Registration Statement Nos. 333-109132, 333-132104, 333-157290,
and 333-158128 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 15, 2013, relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Abbott Laboratories
and subsidiaries (the "Company") and the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting (which reports express an unqualified opinion and include an explanatory paragraph
regarding the distribution of the shares of AbbVie Inc. to the Company's shareholders and the Company's change to the year end of its foreign subsidiaries), appearing in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories for the year ended December 31, 2012.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 15, 2013   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   
 
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 a2212523zex-31_1.htm
 EX-31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

    Certification of Chief Executive Officer 
Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))     

  I,
Miles D. White, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Abbott as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for Abbott and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to Abbott, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of Abbott's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Abbott's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Abbott's
auditors and the audit committee of Abbott's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect Abbott's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Abbott's internal control over financial
reporting.    

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White, 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 15, 2013  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 a2212523zex-31_2.htm
 EX-31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

    Certification of Chief Financial Officer 
Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))     

  I,
Thomas C. Freyman, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Abbott as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for Abbott and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to Abbott, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of Abbott's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Abbott's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Abbott's
auditors and the audit committee of Abbott's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect Abbott's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Abbott's internal control over financial
reporting.    

/s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman, 
Executive Vice President, Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 15, 2013  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 a2212523zex-32_1.htm
 EX-32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

    Certification Pursuant To 
18 U.S.C. Section 1350 
As Adopted Pursuant To 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

          In connection with the Annual Report of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2012 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Miles D. White, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to
18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White, 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 15, 2013  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Abbott Laboratories and will be retained by Abbott Laboratories and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 a2212523zex-32_2.htm
 EX-32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

    Certification Pursuant To 
18 U.S.C. Section 1350 
As Adopted Pursuant To 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

          In connection with the Annual Report of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2012 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Thomas C. Freyman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman, 
Executive Vice President, Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 15, 2013  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Abbott Laboratories and will be retained by Abbott Laboratories and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 15
 abt-20121231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 16
 abt-20121231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 17
 abt-20121231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 18
 abt-20121231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 19
 abt-20121231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 20
 abt-20121231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

