<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20121030_10-K_edgar_data_1467373_0001467373-12-000170_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>18800554</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>649105</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4333247</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5433895</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5547451</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2494657</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>102</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>21</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001467373-12-000170.hdr.sgml : 20121030
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20121030081909
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001467373-12-000170
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		22
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20120831
FILED AS OF DATE:		20121030
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20121030

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Accenture plc
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001467373
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-BUSINESS SERVICES, NEC [7389]
		IRS NUMBER:				980627530
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			L2
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-34448
		FILM NUMBER:		121167893

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 GRAND CANAL SQUARE
		STREET 2:		GRAND CANAL HARBOUR
		CITY:			DUBLIN
		STATE:			L2
		ZIP:			D2
		BUSINESS PHONE:		353-1-646-2000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 GRAND CANAL SQUARE
		STREET 2:		GRAND CANAL HARBOUR
		CITY:			DUBLIN
		STATE:			L2
		ZIP:			D2

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001467373-12-000170.txt : 20121030

10-K
 1
 acn831201210k.htm
 FORM 10-K

ACN 8.31.2012 10K 

Table of Contents     

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549    
  FORM 10-K 
  (Mark One) 

For the fiscal year ended   August 31, 2012    
  OR 
                   
    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 for the transition period from                 to                  

Commission File Number: 001-34448 
  _________________________________ 
  Accenture plc 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
                 Ireland 
    98-0627530 
      (State or other jurisdiction of 
  incorporation or organization) 
    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 

1 Grand Canal Square, 
  Grand Canal Harbour, 
  Dublin 2, Ireland 
  (Address of principal executive offices) 
  (353) (1) 646-2000 
  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                 Title of each class 
    Name of each exchange on which registered 
      Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share 
    New York Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
  Class X ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes            No   o 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.    Yes   o          No     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes             No   o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes             No   o 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
                           Large accelerated filer     
      
    Accelerated filer    o 
      
    Non-accelerated filer   o 
      
    Smaller reporting company    o 

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes   o      No     
  The aggregate market value of the common equity of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant on   February 29, 2012   was approximately   $38,349,195,098   based on the closing price of the registrant s Class A ordinary shares, par value   $0.0000225   per share, reported on the New York Stock Exchange on such date of   $59.54   per share and on the par value of the registrant s Class X ordinary shares, par value   $0.0000225   per share. 
  The number of shares of the registrant s Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share, outstanding as of   October 22, 2012   was   750,482,553   (which number does not include   111,959,464   issued shares held by the registrant). The number of shares of the registrant s Class X ordinary shares, par value   $0.0000225   per share, outstanding as of   October 22, 2012   was   41,365,594  . 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of the definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A relating to the registrant s Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on February 6, 2013, will be incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III. The definitive proxy statement will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the registrant s fiscal year ended   August 31, 2012  . 

Table of Contents     

   TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 
      Part I 

Item 1. 
     Business  
    1 
      Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    11 
      Item 1B. 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    23 
      Item 2. 
     Properties  
    23 
      Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    23 
      Item 4. 
    Mine Safety Disclosures 
    23 
      Part II 

Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    26 
      Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    29 
      Item 7. 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    30 
      Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  
    46 
      Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    47 
      Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    47 
      Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    47 
      Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
    48 
      Part III 

Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    49 
      Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
    49 
      Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters  
    49 
      Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    50 
      Item 14. 
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
    50 
      Part IV 

Item 15. 
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  
    51 
       Signatures  
    53 

Table of Contents     

   PART I 
  Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) relating to our operations, results of operations and other matters that are based on our current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as  may,   will,   should,   likely,   anticipates,   expects,   intends,   plans,   projects,   believes,   estimates  and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in these forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties and other factors that might cause such differences, some of which could be material, include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below under the section entitled  Risk Factors.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them. 
  Available Information 
  Our website address is www.accenture.com. We use our website as a channel of distribution for company information. We make available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website (http://investor.accenture.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We also make available through our website other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including our proxy statements and reports filed by officers and directors under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, as well as our Code of Business Ethics. Financial and other material information regarding us is routinely posted on and accessible at http://investor.accenture.com. We do not intend for information contained in our website to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Any materials we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC, 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 
  In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we use the terms  Accenture,   we,  the  Company,   our  and  us  to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries or, prior to September 1, 2009, to Accenture Ltd and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. 
    ITEM 1.    BUSINESS 
  Overview  
  We are one of the world s leading organizations providing management consulting, technology and outsourcing services, with approximately 257,000 employees; offices and operations in more than 200 cities in 54 countries; and revenues before reimbursements ( net revenues ) of $27.86 billion for fiscal 2012.  
  Our  high performance business  strategy is to use our expertise in consulting, technology and outsourcing to help clients achieve performance at higher levels so they can create sustainable value for their customers and stakeholders. We use our industry and business-process knowledge, our service offering expertise and our insight into, and understanding of, emerging technologies and new business and technology trends to formulate and implement solutions with and for our clients. Our strategy is focused on helping clients improve operational performance, deliver their products and services more effectively and efficiently, and grow their businesses in existing and new markets.  
  We operate globally with one common brand and business model designed to enable us to provide clients around the world with the same high level of service. Drawing on a combination of industry expertise, functional capabilities, alliances, global resources and technology, we seek to deliver competitively priced, high-value services that help our clients measurably improve business performance. Our global delivery model enables us to provide an end-to-end delivery capability by drawing on our global resources to deliver high-quality, cost-effective solutions to our clients.  
  In fiscal 2012, we continued to implement a strategy focused on industry and technology differentiation, as well as geographic expansion. We combine our capabilities across management consulting, technology and business process outsourcing to provide differentiated, industry-based, end-to-end services. We continue to invest in strategic initiatives including analytics, cloud computing, insight-driven health, interactive/digital marketing, mobility and smart grid. Our geographic expansion strategy focuses on emerging and mature markets with significant growth potential for us.  Our priority emerging markets are the ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) countries, Brazil, China, India, Mexico, the Middle East, Russia, South Africa, South Korea and Turkey. 
    1 

     Table of Contents     

   Consulting, Technology and Outsourcing Services and Solutions  
  Our business is structured around five operating groups, which together comprise 19 industry groups serving clients in major industries around the world. Our industry focus gives us an understanding of industry evolution, business issues and applicable technologies, enabling us to deliver innovative solutions tailored to each client or, as appropriate, more standardized capabilities to multiple clients.  
  Our three growth platforms management consulting, technology and business process outsourcing are the innovation engines through which we build world-class skills and capabilities; develop our knowledge capital; and create, acquire and manage key assets central to the development of solutions for our clients. The professionals within these areas work closely with those in our operating groups to develop and deliver integrated services and solutions to clients. Client engagement teams which typically consist of industry experts, capability specialists and professionals with local market knowledge leverage the capabilities of our global delivery model to deliver price-competitive services and solutions. In certain instances, our client engagement teams include subcontractors, who supplement our professionals with additional resources in a specific skill, service or product area, as needed.  
  Operating Groups  
  The following table shows the current organization of our five operating groups and their 19 industry groups. Our operating groups are our reportable operating segments. We do not allocate total assets by operating group, although our operating groups do manage and control certain assets. For certain historical financial information regarding our operating groups (including certain asset information), as well as financial information by geography (including long-lived asset information), see Note 16 (Segment Reporting) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
                       Operating Groups and Industry Groups 
      Communications, Media   Technology 
    Financial 
  Services 
    Health   
  Public Service 
    Products 
    Resources 
         Communications 
     Electronics   High Tech 
     Media   Entertainment 
       Banking 
     Capital Markets 
     Insurance 
       Health 
     Public Service 
       Air, Freight   Travel Services 
     Automotive 
     Consumer Goods   Services 
     Industrial Equipment 
     Infrastructure   Transportation Services 
     Life Sciences 
     Retail 
       Chemicals 
     Energy 
     Natural Resources 
     Utilities 

Communications, Media   Technology  
  Our Communications, Media   Technology operating group serves the communications, electronics, high technology, media and entertainment industries. Professionals in this operating group help clients leverage innovation and enhance their business results through industry-specific solutions and by seizing the opportunities made possible by the convergence of communications, computing and content. Examples of our services include helping clients: integrate customer interactions and billing across multiple channels; improve enterprise operations for increased cost efficiency and global expansion; optimize the design and operations of communications networks; repurpose, deliver and monetize digital content; and enhance product innovation processes and systems.  Our Communications, Media   Technology operating group comprises the following industry groups:  
             
    Communications.    Our Communications industry group serves most of the world s leading wireline, wireless, cable and satellite communications and service providers. We provide a range of services designed to help our communications clients grow revenues, increase profitability and improve customer satisfaction. We offer a portfolio of consulting, technology and outsourcing services designed to address major business and operational issues related to sales and service channels, new product innovation, network functions, corporate and enterprise functions and information technology. Our Communications industry group represented approximately 53% of our Communications, Media   Technology operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2012.  
                
    Electronics   High Tech.    Our Electronics   High Tech industry group serves the following industries: information and communications technology, software, semiconductor, consumer electronics, aerospace and defense, and medical equipment. We provide services in areas such as strategy, enterprise resource management, customer relationship management, integrated mobile services, embedded software services, product lifecycle management, sales transformation, digital marketing services, supply chain management, and merger/acquisition integration. Our Electronics   High Tech industry group represented approximately 37% of our Communications, Media   Technology operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2012.  
                
    Media   Entertainment.    Our Media   Entertainment industry group serves the broadcast, entertainment, print, publishing and portal industries. We provide a wide range of services, including digital marketing, performance advertising, digital rights management, and digital content and media technologies designed to help clients effectively manage, access, distribute and protect content across multiple platforms and devices. We also provide additional  
       2 

     Table of Contents     

   comprehensive turn-key solutions through Origin Digital and Digiplug, specialized Accenture units that help content owners and distributors adapt business processes and systems to enable digital monetization.  
  Financial Services  
  Our Financial Services operating group serves the banking, capital markets and insurance industries. Professionals in this operating group work with clients in a dynamic and increasingly global market environment to address cost and profitability pressures, industry consolidation, regulatory changes and the need to continually adapt to new technologies. We offer services designed to help our clients increase cost efficiency, grow their customer bases, manage risk and transform their operations. Our Financial Services operating group comprises the following industry groups:  
             
    Banking.    Our Banking industry group works with retail and commercial banks, mortgage lenders and diversified financial enterprises. We help these organizations develop and execute strategies to lower operating costs; acquire and retain customers more effectively; expand product and service offerings; manage risk; comply with new regulatory initiatives; support integration related to mergers and acquisitions; and leverage new technologies and distribution channels. Our Banking industry group represented approximately 53% of our Financial Services operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2012.  
                
    Capital Markets.    Our Capital Markets industry group helps investment banks, broker/dealers, asset management firms, depositories, exchanges and clearing and settlement organizations by providing consulting and outsourcing services to improve their businesses to increase competitiveness. We help clients develop and implement trading, wealth and asset-management, and market infrastructure systems and solutions.  
                
    Insurance.    Our Insurance industry group helps property and casualty insurers, life insurers, reinsurance firms and insurance brokers improve business processes, modernize their technologies and improve the quality and consistency of risk selection decisions. We offer claims and policy management software and services designed to enable insurers to provide better customer service while optimizing costs and to deliver innovative products to market more quickly and efficiently. We also provide a variety of outsourcing solutions designed to help insurers improve working capital and cash flow, deliver cost savings and enhance long-term growth.  Our Insurance industry group represented approximately 31% of our Financial Services operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2012.  
     Health   Public Service  
  Our Health   Public Service operating group serves healthcare payers and providers, as well as government agencies and public service organizations, around the world. The group s service offerings and research-based insights help clients deliver better social, economic and health outcomes to the people they serve. Our Health   Public Service operating group comprises the following industry groups:  
             
    Health.    Our Health industry group works with healthcare providers, government health departments, policy-making authorities/regulators, managed care organizations, health insurers and other industry-related organizations around the world to improve the quality, accessibility and affordability of healthcare. Our key offerings address a variety of areas, including electronic medical records; health insurance exchanges; back-office services for hospitals and health plans; sales and marketing; core administration services; care management services; claims excellence/cost containment; and corporate functions, including human resources, finance, procurement and information technology.  Our Health industry group represented approximately 30% of our Health   Public Service operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2012.  
                
    Public Service.    Our Public Service industry group helps governments position themselves for the future by transforming the way they deliver public services and engage with citizens. We provide services designed to help them increase the efficiency of their operations, improve service delivery to citizens and reduce their overall costs. We work primarily with defense, revenue, human services, public health, postal, justice and public safety authorities or agencies, and our clients include national, state and local-level government organizations, as well as pan-geographic organizations. Our Public Service industry group represented approximately 70% of our Health   Public Service operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2012. In addition, our work with clients in the U.S. federal government represented approximately 28% of our Health   Public Service operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2012.  
     Products  
  Our Products operating group serves a set of increasingly interconnected consumer-relevant industries. Our Products operating group comprises the following industry groups:  
             
    Air, Freight   Travel Services.    Our Air, Freight   Travel Services industry group serves airlines, freight and logistics companies, and travel services companies, including hotels, tour operators, rental car companies and cruise operators. We help clients address organizational effectiveness by developing and implementing more efficient networks, optimizing back-office functions, integrating supply chains, developing procurement strategies and building improved customer  
       3 

     Table of Contents     

   relationship management capabilities. We also offer industry-specific solutions, such as Navitaire for the airline industry and a proprietary end-to-end shipment management solution for the freight and logistics industry.  
             
    Automotive.    Our Automotive industry group works with original equipment manufacturers and suppliers. We help clients respond to the evolving needs of their customers with offerings that range from in-vehicle infotainment to customer-centered sales and marketing. In addition, our global capabilities are designed to improve efficiencies and drive value in areas including global manufacturing, aftersales and services and product lifecycle optimization.  
                
    Consumer Goods   Services.    Our Consumer Goods   Services industry group serves food and beverage, alcoholic beverage, household goods, personal care, tobacco, fashion/apparel, agribusiness and consumer health companies around the world. Our offerings are designed to help companies improve their performance by addressing large-scale enterprise resource planning, channel and revenue management, multi-channel marketing, working capital productivity improvement and supply chain collaboration. We also help clients build operating models that support end-to-end processes needed to improve business results.  
                
    Industrial Equipment.    Our Industrial Equipment industry group serves the industrial and electrical equipment, automotive supplier, consumer durable and heavy equipment industries. We help our clients increase operating and supply chain efficiencies by improving processes and leveraging technology, and also help clients generate value from strategic mergers and acquisitions. In addition, our Industrial Equipment industry group develops and deploys solutions in the areas of cloud computing, channel management, collaborative product design, remote field maintenance, enterprise application integration and outsourcing.  
                
    Infrastructure   Transportation Services.    Our Infrastructure   Transportation Services industry group serves companies in the construction, infrastructure management (ports, airports, seaports and road-tolling facilities) and mass transportation industries. We help clients develop and implement strategies and solutions designed to improve their information technology and customer relationship management capabilities, operate more efficient networks, integrate supply chains, develop procurement and electronic business marketplace strategies, and more effectively manage maintenance, repair and overhaul processes and expenses all in the context of increasing priorities around mobility services and sustainability.  
                
    Life Sciences.    Our Life Sciences industry group works with pharmaceutical, medical technology and biotechnology companies. We provide services in large-scale business and technology transformation, business performance improvement, post-merger integration, and business process and technology outsourcing. Our life sciences expertise covers the key business areas of research and development, marketing and sales, supply chain, manufacturing and select back-office functions.  
                
    Retail.    Our Retail industry group serves a wide range of companies, including supermarkets, hardline retailers, mass-merchandise discounters, department stores, and fashion and other specialty retailers. We provide offerings designed to help clients drive value and differentiation with consumers through analytics-based marketing and merchandising, optimized integration of new channels, faster delivery and improved relevance of offerings to customers, effective use of advanced and core technologies and services, and improved cross-functional integration and operations.  
     Resources  
  Our Resources operating group serves the chemicals, energy, forest products, metals and mining, utilities and related industries. Market conditions are driving energy companies to seek new ways of creating value for shareholders; deregulation and climate change are fundamentally reforming the utilities industry and yielding cross-border opportunities; and there is an intensive focus on productivity and portfolio management in the chemicals and natural resources industries. We work with clients to address all of these challenges and to create solutions designed to help them differentiate themselves in the marketplace, gain competitive advantage and manage their large-scale capital investments. We also work with clients across all industry groups on sustainability to help them meet emission targets and increase energy efficiency. In fiscal 2012, our net revenues from multiple contracts with a single client in Resources were greater than 10% of the operating group s net revenues, slightly exceeding that threshold.  Our Resources operating group comprises the following industry groups:  
             
    Chemicals.    Our Chemicals industry group works with a wide cross-section of industry segments, including petrochemicals, specialty chemicals, polymers and plastics, gases and agricultural chemicals, among others. We help chemical companies develop and implement new business strategies, redesign business processes, manage complex change initiatives, and integrate processes and technologies to achieve higher levels of performance.  
                
    Energy.    Our Energy industry group serves a wide range of companies in the oil and gas industry, including upstream, downstream, oil services and clean-energy companies. We help our clients optimize production, manage their hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon supply chains, streamline marketing operations and realize the potential of third-party enterprise-wide technology solutions. Our Energy industry group represented approximately 33% of our Resources operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2012.  
       4 

     Table of Contents     

Natural Resources.    Our Natural Resources industry group serves the metals, mining, forest products and building materials industries. We help our clients which include mining companies in the coal, iron ore, copper and precious metals sectors; steel and aluminum producers; and lumber, pulp, papermaking, converting and packaging companies develop and implement new business strategies, redesign business processes, manage complex change initiatives, and integrate processes and technologies to achieve higher levels of performance.  
                
    Utilities.    Our Utilities industry group works with electric, gas and water utilities around the world to respond to an evolving and highly competitive marketplace. We help utilities transform themselves from regulated, and sometimes state-owned, local entities to international deregulated corporations. We also develop diverse products and service offerings designed to help our clients deliver higher levels of service to their customers. These offerings include customer relationship management, workforce enablement, smart-grid development, supply chain optimization, and trading and risk management. We also provide a range of outsourced customer-care services to utilities and retail energy companies. Our Utilities industry group represented approximately 33% of our Resources operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2012.  
     Growth Platforms  
  Our management consulting, technology and business process outsourcing ( BPO ) growth platforms are the skill-based innovation engines through which we build world-class skills and capabilities; develop our knowledge capital; and create, acquire and manage key assets central to the development of solutions for our clients. The professionals within these areas work closely with those in our operating groups to develop and deliver integrated services and solutions to clients.  
  Management Consulting  
  Our management consulting growth platform is responsible for the development and delivery of our strategic, operational, functional, industry, process and change consulting capabilities, working closely with the professionals in our operating groups and the other growth platforms. Our management consulting professionals help large, complex organizations design and execute changes to their business and operating models, either for one or more business units or across the entire organization. This growth platform comprises seven function-based service areas, as well as industry-focused teams of management consulting professionals with deep skills in the numerous industry segments that we serve. The majority of management consulting professionals have a primary focus on either one of the seven service areas or on an industry, with a secondary focus on the other (i.e., industry or service area).  
  The service areas are as follows:  
             
    Finance   Enterprise Performance.    The professionals in Finance   Enterprise Performance work with our clients  finance and business unit executives to develop financial transaction processing, corporate finance and business performance reporting capabilities. Among the services we provide are strategic consulting on the design and structure of the finance function and the establishment of shared service centers for multiple business functions. Our finance capability services also address revenue cycle management, billing, credit and collection effectiveness, electronic invoicing and settlement, tax processing, treasury operations, trading operations, lending and debt recovery, real estate optimization and benchmarking. Our performance management services address shareholder value targeting, scorecard and performance metrics development, performance reporting solutions and applied business analytics to improve profitability. Our professionals work with finance executives to develop and implement solutions designed to help them align their companies  investments with their business objectives and establish security relating to the exchange of information with reporting institutions.  
                
    Operations.    The professionals in Operations work with clients across a broad range of industries to develop and implement measurable, lasting improvements in all aspects of operations to enable profitable growth in new and existing markets. Our professionals combine global industry expertise and skills in a variety of areas, including operations and process transformation; sourcing and procurement; innovation and product development; manufacturing strategy and operations; service strategy and operations; integrated planning and fulfillment; and supply chain education. We work with clients to help align underlying process and operating models to support business strategies; optimize global operations; support profitable product launches; and enhance the skills and capabilities of the operations and supply chain workforce.  
                
    Risk Management.    The professionals in Risk Management work with clients to develop risk management capabilities to help protect and grow the economic value of their organizations. Our Risk Management services help our clients align business strategy and risk capabilities to evaluate market options and drive profitable growth; develop a risk-conscious culture across their organizations; adapt to industry and geographic regulations to drive positive business impact; and develop capabilities to collect, model and analyze business information for better risk-based decision-making.  
                
    Sales   Customer Services.    The professionals in Sales   Customer Services (formerly Customer Relationship Management) help companies acquire, develop and retain more profitable customer relationships to accelerate growth,  
       5 

     Table of Contents     

   improve sales and profitability, and reduce sales operations and customer service costs. We offer a full range of capabilities that address every aspect of sales and post-sales customer service, including pricing strategy and profitability assessment, customer analytics, direct and indirect salesforce performance improvement, customer service, field support and customer contact operations. 
             
    Strategy.    Our Strategy professionals combine their strategy and operating model experience to help clients turn insights into results at both the enterprise and business unit level. With deep skills and capabilities in corporate strategy, corporate restructuring, growth and innovation strategies, mergers and acquisitions, and merger integration, we help clients develop and execute pragmatic ways to transform organizations and drive sustained high performance. 
                
    Sustainability  .  Our Sustainability professionals work with clients to integrate sustainability approaches into their business strategies, operating models, critical processes and infrastructure, including technical operations and support, to help them balance positive economic, environmental and social impact. 
                
    Talent   Organization.    The professionals in Talent   Organization work with clients on a wide range of talent management, human resources, organizational effectiveness, human capital, learning and change issues to deliver improved business and operational results. Our integrated approach and end-to-end capabilities include services and solutions in organization and change management, human resources transformation, learning and collaboration, organizational performance management, talent management and overall transformation of key workforces. We help companies and governments improve the efficiency and effectiveness of talent and organization capabilities while lowering associated costs; deliver improvements in employee, workforce and business performance; improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the human resources function and transform organizations through project-, program- and enterprise-level change management.  
     In addition to our function-based service areas, we have specialized teams that provide industry-specific management consulting services, which draw from our functional service areas but are customized and adapted to each industry. The majority of our management consultants whether in a function-based service area or on an industry management consulting team has a specific industry alignment, underscoring the strength of our industry assets and experience.  
  Technology  
  Our technology growth platform comprises three service areas: systems integration consulting, technology consulting and  technology outsourcing.  
  Systems Integration Consulting  
  Our systems integration consulting services and solutions include:  
             
    Enterprise Solutions and Enterprise Resource Planning ( ERP ).    We implement a variety of application software including SAP and Oracle, among others to consolidate operations, streamline business processes, connect geographies and manage and exploit data to make more informed business decisions.  
                
    Industry and Functional Solutions.    We provide clients with industry and functional solutions that streamline, integrate and manage business processes, systems and information, based on other vendors  software assets or our own assets. These are typically  add-ons  to our clients  core ERP systems or software to support industry-unique functions such as trading solutions, billing systems and health exchange solutions. From design to implementation, these end-to-end services help our clients improve analytics-based decision-making, financial management, customer service excellence, supply chain management and human resource management.  
                
    Information Management Services.      We provide services to help organizations manage the full range of their information needs to improve data quality, enhance decision-making capabilities and meet compliance requirements across social media, cloud and mobile platforms, as well as legacy environments. Our services include business intelligence; content management and portals; data management; and data quality solutions.  
                
    Custom Solutions.    With deep skills and expertise in both J2EE (Java-based) and .NET technology architectures, we work with clients to develop custom solutions that meet unique business needs, often using open-source technology products and platforms.  
                
    Microsoft Solutions.    Together with our alliance partner Microsoft and our Avanade subsidiary, we develop and deliver cost-efficient, innovative business solutions across the Microsoft platform and full set of software, leveraging our deep industry expertise and practical applications of technologies. We have also helped a significant number of clients implement Microsoft s BPOS (Business Productivity Online Standard Suite) and other cloud-based tools using Microsoft s Azure platform.  
       6 

     Table of Contents     

   Technology Consulting  
  Our key technology consulting services and solutions include:  
             
    Information Technology ( IT ) Strategy.    We help client CEOs and CIOs link IT investments to business results and help manage those investments to ensure that the planned business impact is achieved. We also help CIOs transform how IT works, both internally and with business partners, so that IT is  run like a business  to deliver high performance.  
                
    Infrastructure Consulting.    We provide solutions to help clients optimize their IT infrastructures while reducing costs. From virtualization of servers and desktops, to data center operations engineering and enterprise network design and implementation, our services are designed to enable clients to rationalize, standardize, optimize, secure and transform their IT infrastructures for improved performance of mission-critical business processes, applications and end-users.  
                
    IT Security Consulting.    We help clients integrate security into key business processes and implement security tools and processes so they can become more agile in response to changing market forces and evolving threats. Working with us, our clients are better able to secure data and applications, protect identities, address threats and vulnerabilities, and meet compliance demands while reducing costs and improving efficiency.  
                
    Application Modernization and Optimization.    We specialize in defining and executing strategies that transform our clients  application portfolios into rationalized, flexible, cost-efficient and reliable assets. Our services and solutions help clients define and implement innovative approaches to extending the useful life of legacy applications at a significantly reduced cost or help to retire platforms and replace them with more modern, sustainable solutions.  
     Technology Outsourcing  
  Our approach to technology outsourcing goes beyond traditional cost-cutting measures to help clients improve the total performance of application and infrastructure development and maintenance. We provide a full range of application outsourcing and infrastructure outsourcing services and solutions:  
             
    Application Outsourcing.    We provide a wide array of application outsourcing services under flexible arrangements, managing custom or packaged software applications including enterprise-wide applications such as SAP and Oracle over their complete development and maintenance lifecycles. Our scope of services ranges from standardized, discrete application outsourcing services including application testing, application management of enterprise-wide software programs, and capacity services to large-scale application enhancement and development for individual or multiple applications, or an entire portfolio of applications.     
                
    Infrastructure Outsourcing.    We provide ongoing management of clients  IT infrastructure capabilities and functions, with expertise in six service areas: service desk; workplace services; data-center services; network services; security services; and IT spend management. We provide discrete skills (e.g., capacity services) as well as fully managed services. Our services offer clients a more cost-effective, secure and responsive infrastructure that can be scaled and adapted to their business needs.  
     In addition, the following initiatives span our three service areas described above: 
             
    Cloud Computing.   We provide cloud services in three areas to help clients improve IT efficiency and agility: we help clients plan, implement and manage services from our provider ecosystem; we develop Software as a Service (SaaS) solutions built on our proprietary assets; and we provide provisioning, integration and management of services to bridge operations across traditional and cloud environments. In addition, we help clients implement SaaS solutions to meet their business needs with the added benefits of increasing flexibility and reducing total cost of ownership. Our SaaS methodology and toolset enables delivery of SaaS solutions across a wide range of services and leading SaaS solutions including Salesforce.com, Workday, Microsoft, SAP, Oracle and NetSuite. 
                
    Mobility Services.      We provide mobility and embedded software services across multiple platforms, including: Android, Apple iOS, and Windows, among others. Our services include mobility consulting, software services (including applications, devices and platforms), managed services and business integration services     designed to help organizations tap the full potential of mobility across the business-to-employee, business-to-consumer, business-to-business and machine-to-machine environments.  
     Business Process Outsourcing  
  Our business process outsourcing ( BPO ) growth platform provides business process services that help clients drive business value, achieve higher levels of performance and results, and/or reduce costs. Through our BPO services, we manage specific business processes or functions for clients, providing solutions that are more efficient and cost-effective than if the functions were provided in-house while also providing business insight to drive business outcomes.  
  We offer clients across all industries a variety of BPO services for specific business functions and/or processes, including finance and accounting, human resources, learning and procurement, among others. We also offer industry-specific BPO services,  
    7 

     Table of Contents     

   such as credit services, designed to address the unique needs of client organizations and deliver business outcomes. We provide these services on a global basis and across all industry sectors through our Global Delivery Network.  
  Global Delivery Model  
  A key differentiator is our global delivery model, which allows us to draw on the benefits of using people and other resources from around the world including scalable, standardized processes, methods and tools; specialized management consulting, business process and technology skills; cost advantages; foreign language fluency; proximity to clients; and time zone advantages to deliver high-quality solutions. Emphasizing quality, productivity, reduced risk, speed to market and predictability, our global delivery model enables us to provide clients with price-competitive services and solutions.  
  Our Global Delivery Network continues to be a competitive differentiator for us. We have more than 50 delivery centers around the world. As of August 31, 2012, we had approximately 162,000 people in our network globally. 
  Alliances  
  We have sales and delivery alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our own by, among other things, enhancing a service offering, delivering a new technology or helping us extend our services to new geographies. By combining our alliance partners  products and services with our own capabilities and expertise, we create innovative, high-value business solutions for our clients. Most of our alliances are non-exclusive. These alliances can generate significant revenues from services we provide to implement our alliance partners  products. We also receive as reimbursement some direct payments, which are not material to our business, from our alliance partners to cover costs we incur for marketing and other assistance.  
  Research and Innovation  
  We are committed to developing leading-edge ideas. Research and innovation have been major factors in our success, and we believe they will help us continue to grow in the future. We use our investment in research and development on which we spent $560 million, $482 million and $377 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively to help create, commercialize and disseminate innovative business strategies and technology solutions.     
  Our research and innovation program is designed to generate early insights into how knowledge can be harnessed to create innovative business solutions for our clients and to develop business strategies with significant value. One component of this is our research and development organization, Accenture Technology Labs, which identifies and develops new technologies that we believe will be the drivers of our clients  growth and enable them to be first to market with unique capabilities. 
  We also promote the creation of knowledge capital and thought leadership through the Accenture Institute for High Performance. In addition, we spend a significant portion of our research and development investment directly through our operating groups and our consulting, technology and outsourcing growth platforms to develop market-ready solutions for our clients.  
  Employees  
  Our most important asset is our people. The diverse and global makeup of our workforce enables us to serve our diverse and global client base. We are deeply committed to the continued development of our employees, who receive significant and focused technical, functional, industry, managerial and leadership skill development and training appropriate for their roles and levels within our company throughout their careers with us. We seek to reinforce our employees  commitments to our clients, culture and values through a comprehensive performance management system and a career philosophy that rewards both individual performance and teamwork. We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces collaboration, motivation and innovation and is consistent with our core values and Code of Business Ethics.  
  As of August 31, 2012, we had approximately 257,000 employees worldwide.  
  Competition  
  We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing global marketplace and compete with a variety of organizations that offer services competitive with those we offer. Our competitors include:  
             
    large multinational providers, including the services arms of large global technology providers (hardware, equipment and software), that offer some or all of the services that we do; 
                
    off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India, the Philippines and China, that offer services similar to those we offer, often at highly competitive prices and on more aggressive contractual terms;  
                
    niche solution or service providers or local competitors that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area, including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models;  
                
    accounting firms that are expanding or building their provision of some consulting services, including through acquisitions; and  
       8 

     Table of Contents     

in-house departments of large corporations that use their own resources, rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services we provide.  
     Our revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies, medium-sized companies, governments, government agencies and other enterprises. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the industries in which we compete include:  
             
    skills and capabilities of people;  
                
    technical and industry expertise;  
                
    innovative service and product offerings;  
                
    ability to add business value and improve performance;  
                
    reputation and client references;  
                
    contractual terms, including competitive pricing;  
                
    ability to deliver results reliably and on a timely basis;  
                
    scope of services;  
                
    service delivery approach;  
                
    quality of services and solutions; 
                
    availability of appropriate resources; and 
                
    global reach and scale, including level of presence in key emerging markets. 
     Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis.  
  Intellectual Property  
  We provide value to our clients based in part on a differentiated range of proprietary inventions, methodologies, software, reusable knowledge capital and other intellectual property. We recognize the increasing value of intellectual property in the marketplace and create, harvest, and protect this intellectual property. We leverage patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws as well as contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property. We have also established policies to respect the intellectual property rights of third parties, such as our clients, partners and others.  
  As of August 31, 2012, we had 2,834 patent applications pending in the United States and other jurisdictions and had been issued 710 U.S. patents and 735 non-U.S. patents.  
  Trademarks appearing in this report are the trademarks or registered trademarks of Accenture Global Services Ltd or third parties, as applicable. 
    Organizational Structure 
  Accenture plc is an Irish public limited company with no material assets other than Class I common shares in its subsidiary, Accenture SCA, a Luxembourg partnership limited by shares ( Accenture SCA ). Accenture plc s only business is to hold these shares. Accenture plc owns a majority voting interest in Accenture SCA. As the general partner of Accenture SCA and as a result of Accenture plc s majority voting interest in Accenture SCA, Accenture plc controls Accenture SCA s management and operations and consolidates Accenture SCA s results in its Consolidated Financial Statements. We operate our business through subsidiaries of Accenture SCA. Accenture SCA generally reimburses Accenture plc for its expenses but does not pay Accenture plc any fees.  
  History 
  Prior to our transition to a corporate structure in fiscal 2001, we operated as a series of related partnerships and corporations under the control of our partners. In connection with our transition to a corporate structure, our partners generally exchanged all of their interests in these partnerships and corporations for Accenture Ltd Class A common shares or, in the case of partners in certain countries, Accenture SCA Class I common shares or exchangeable shares issued by Accenture Canada Holdings Inc., an indirect subsidiary of Accenture SCA. Generally, partners who received Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares also received a corresponding number of Accenture Ltd Class X common shares, which entitled their holders to vote at Accenture Ltd shareholder meetings but did not carry any economic rights. The combination of the Accenture Ltd Class X common shares and the Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares gave these partners substantially similar economic and governance rights as holders of Accenture Ltd Class A common shares. 
  On June 10, 2009, Accenture plc was incorporated in Ireland, as a public limited company, in order to effect moving the place of incorporation of our parent holding company from Bermuda to Ireland (the  Transaction ). The Transaction was  completed on September 1, 2009, at which time Accenture Ltd, our predecessor holding company, became a wholly owned subsidiary of  
    9 

     Table of Contents     

   Accenture plc and Accenture plc became our parent holding company. In the Transaction, all of the outstanding Class A and Class X common shares of Accenture Ltd were cancelled and Accenture plc issued Class A and Class X ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis to the holders of the cancelled Accenture Ltd Class A and Class X common shares, as applicable (and cash for any fractional shares). Accenture Ltd was dissolved on December 29, 2009. 
  The Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report with respect to periods prior to September 1, 2009 reflect the consolidated operations of Accenture Ltd (the predecessor registrant of Accenture plc) and its subsidiaries. The Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report reflect the ownership interests in Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. held by certain of our current and former senior executives as noncontrolling interests. The noncontrolling ownership interests percentage was 8% as of August 31, 2012. 
  Accenture plc Class A and Class X Ordinary Shares 
  Each Class A ordinary share and each Class X ordinary share of Accenture plc entitles its holder to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of Accenture plc. A Class X ordinary share does not, however, entitle its holder to receive dividends or to receive payments upon a liquidation of Accenture plc. As described above under   History,  Class X ordinary shares generally provide the holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares with a vote at Accenture plc shareholder meetings that is equivalent to the voting rights held by Accenture plc Class A ordinary shareholders, while their economic rights consist of interests in Accenture SCA Class I common shares or in Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares. 
  Under its memorandum and articles of association, Accenture plc may redeem, at its option, any Class X ordinary share for a redemption price equal to the nominal value of the Class X ordinary share, or $0.0000225 per share. Accenture plc, as successor to Accenture Ltd, has separately agreed with the original holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares not to redeem any Class X ordinary share of such holder if the redemption would reduce the number of Class X ordinary shares held by that holder to a number that is less than the number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares owned by that holder. Accenture plc will redeem Class X ordinary shares upon the redemption or exchange of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares so that the aggregate number of Class X ordinary shares outstanding at any time does not exceed the aggregate number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares outstanding. Class X ordinary shares are not transferable without the consent of Accenture plc. 
  A transfer of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares effected by transfer of a book-entry interest in The Depository Trust Company will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. Other transfers of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the Class A ordinary shares acquired, if higher) payable by the buyer. 
  Accenture SCA Class I Common Shares 
  Only Accenture and our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees hold Accenture SCA Class I common shares. Each Class I common share entitles its holder to one vote on all matters submitted to the shareholders of Accenture SCA and entitles its holder to dividends and liquidation payments. As of October 22, 2012, Accenture holds a voting interest of approximately 93% of the aggregate outstanding Accenture SCA Class I common shares entitled to vote, with the remaining 7% of the voting interest held by our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees. 
  Accenture SCA is obligated, at the option of the holder, to redeem any outstanding Accenture SCA Class I common share at a redemption price per share generally equal to its current market value as determined in accordance with Accenture SCA s articles of association. Under Accenture SCA s articles of association, the market value of a Class I common share that is not subject to transfer restrictions will be deemed to be equal to (i) the average of the high and low sales prices of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other designated market on which the Class A ordinary shares trade), net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs, or (ii) if Accenture plc sells its Class A ordinary shares on the date that the redemption price is determined (other than in a transaction with any employee or an affiliate or pursuant to a preexisting obligation), the weighted average sales price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share on the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other market on which the Class A ordinary shares primarily trade), net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs. Accenture SCA may, at its option, pay this redemption price with cash or by delivering Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis. In order to maintain Accenture plc s economic interest in Accenture SCA, Accenture plc generally will acquire additional Accenture SCA common shares each time additional Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares are issued. 
  Except in the case of a redemption of Class I common shares or a transfer of Class I common shares to Accenture plc or one of its subsidiaries, Accenture SCA s articles of association provide that Accenture SCA Class I common shares may be transferred only with the consent of the general partner of Accenture SCA. In addition, all holders of Class I common shares (except Accenture) are precluded from having their shares redeemed by Accenture SCA or transferred to Accenture SCA, Accenture plc or a subsidiary  
    10 

     Table of Contents     

   of Accenture plc at any time or during any period when Accenture SCA determines, based on the advice of counsel, that there is material non-public information that may affect the average price per share of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, if the redemption would be prohibited by applicable law, during an underwritten offering due to an underwriters lock-up or during the period from the announcement of a tender offer by Accenture SCA or its affiliates for Accenture SCA Class I common shares until the expiration of ten business days after the termination of the tender offer (other than to tender the holder s Accenture SCA Class I common shares in the tender offer). 
  Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. Exchangeable Shares 
  Holders of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares may exchange their shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at any time on a one-for-one basis. Accenture may, at its option, satisfy this exchange with cash at a price per share generally equal to the market price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share at the time of the exchange. Each exchangeable share of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. entitles its holder to receive distributions equal to any distributions to which an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share entitles its holder. The exchange of all of the outstanding Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares would not have a material impact on the equity ownership position of Accenture or the other shareholders of Accenture SCA. 
    ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS 
  In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) or stock price. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that may broadly affect companies, including us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price.  
  Our results of operations could be adversely affected by volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients  businesses and levels of business activity. 
  Global macroeconomic conditions affect our clients  businesses and the markets they serve. Developments, such as the recent recessions and instability in the U.S. and Europe, government spending restrictions potentially occurring at the end of calendar year 2012 in the United States (commonly referred to as the fiscal cliff), deterioration in the Chinese economy, and the inflationary risks associated with higher commodity prices, among other developments, may have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. 
  Volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions in our significant markets have undermined and could in the future undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other markets and cause our clients to reduce or defer their spending on new technologies or initiatives or terminate existing contracts, which would negatively affect our business. Growth in the markets we serve could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate or contract, in each case, for an extended period of time. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographical regions in which we operate and the industries we serve have affected and may in the future affect demand for our services. A material portion of our revenues and profitability is derived from our clients in Europe and North America. Weakening demand in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty affects our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand beyond the short term and effectively build our revenue and resource plans, particularly in consulting. This could result, for example, in us having to use involuntary terminations as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance. 
  Economic volatility and uncertainty is particularly challenging because it may take some time for the effects and resulting changes in demand patters to manifest themselves in our business and results of operations. Changing demand patterns from economic volatility and uncertainty could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. 
  Our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, and a significant reduction in such demand could materially affect our results of operations.  
  Our revenue and profitability depend on the demand for our services with favorable margins, which could be negatively affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product. As described above, volatile, negative or uncertain global economic conditions have adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect client demand for our services and solutions. In addition, developments in the industries we serve, which may be rapid, could shift demand to services and solutions where we are less competitive, or might require significant investment by us to upgrade, enhance or expand our services and solutions to meet that demand. Companies in the industries we serve sometimes seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its consulting, systems integration and technology, or outsourcing services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work if we are not successful in generating new opportunities from the merger or consolidation. Many of our consulting contracts are less than 12 months in duration, and  
    11 

     Table of Contents     

   these contracts typically permit a client to terminate the agreement with as little as 30 days  notice. Longer-term, larger and more complex contracts, such as the majority of our outsourcing contracts, generally require a longer notice period for termination and often include an early termination charge to be paid to us, but this charge might not be sufficient to cover our costs or make up for anticipated ongoing revenues and profits lost upon termination of the contract. If a client is dissatisfied with our services and we are unable to effectively respond to its needs, the client might terminate existing contracts, or reduce or eliminate spending on the services and solutions we provide. Additionally, a client could choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project, try to renegotiate the terms of its contract or cancel or delay additional planned work. When contracts are terminated or not renewed, we lose the anticipated revenues, and it may take significant time to replace the level of revenues lost. Consequently, our results of operations in subsequent periods could be materially lower than expected. The specific business or financial condition of a client, changes in management and changes in a client s strategy also are all factors that can result in terminations, cancellations or delays. For example, in fiscal 2009, we experienced a higher volume of contract terminations and restructurings as a result of challenging economic conditions and clients being acquired, which negatively affected our results of operations. It could also result in pressure to reduce the cost of our services. For example, during fiscal years 2009 and 2010, challenging economic conditions led to our moving work more quickly into our Global Delivery Network than planned in order to respond to client demand to reduce costs, which resulted in our revenues being less than anticipated.  
  If we are unable to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and attract and retain professionals with strong leadership skills, our business, the utilization rate of our professionals and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.       
  Our success is dependent, in large part, on our ability to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and our ability to attract and retain personnel with the knowledge and skills to lead our business globally. Experienced personnel in our industry are in high demand, and competition for talent is intense. We must hire, retain and motivate appropriate numbers of talented people with diverse skills in order to serve clients across the globe, respond quickly to rapid and ongoing technology, industry and macroeconomic developments and grow and manage our business. For example, if we are unable to hire or continually train our employees to keep pace with the rapid and continuing changes in technology and the industries we serve or changes in the types of services clients are demanding, such as the increase in demand for outsourcing services, we may not be able to develop and deliver new services and solutions to fulfill client demand. As we expand our services and solutions, we must also hire and retain an increasing number of professionals with different skills and professional expectations than those of the professionals we have historically hired and retained. Additionally, if we are unable to successfully integrate, motivate and retain these professionals, our ability to continue to secure work in those industries and for our services and solutions may suffer. 
  We are particularly dependent on retaining our senior executives and other experienced managers, and if we are unable to do so, our ability to develop new business and effectively lead our current projects could be jeopardized. We depend on identifying, developing and retaining key employees to provide leadership and direction for our businesses. This includes developing talent and leadership capabilities in emerging markets, where the depth of skilled employees is often limited and competition for these resources is intense. Our geographic expansion strategy in emerging markets depends on our ability to attract, retain and integrate both local business leaders and people with the appropriate skills. 
  Similarly, our profitability depends on our ability to effectively utilize personnel with the right mix of skills and experience to perform services for our clients, including our ability to transition employees to new assignments on a timely basis. If we are unable to effectively deploy our employees globally on a timely basis to fulfill the needs of our clients, our ability to perform our work profitably could suffer. If the utilization rate of our professionals is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition, the quality of the work performed as well as our ability to staff projects. If our utilization rate is too low, our profitability and the engagement of our employees could suffer. The costs associated with recruiting and training employees are significant. An important element of our global business model is the deployment of our employees around the world, which allows us to move talent as needed, and particularly in emerging markets. Therefore, if we are not able to deploy the talent we need because of increased regulation of immigration or work visas, including limitations placed on the number of visas granted, limitations on the type of work performed or location in which it can be performed, and new or higher minimum salary requirements, it could be more difficult to staff our employees on client engagements and could increase our costs.  
  Our equity-based incentive compensation plans are designed to reward high-performing personnel for their contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us. If the anticipated value of such incentives does not materialize because of volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price, or if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, our ability to attract and retain the personnel we need could be adversely affected. In addition, if we do not obtain the shareholder approval needed to continue granting equity awards under our share plans in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract and retain personnel could be negatively affected. 
  There is a risk that at certain points in time and in certain geographical regions, we will find it difficult to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet current and/or future demand. In these cases, we might need to redeploy existing personnel or increase our reliance on subcontractors to fill certain labor needs, and if not done effectively, our profitability could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if demand for our services were to escalate at a high rate, we may  
    12 

     Table of Contents     

   need to adjust our compensation practices, which could put upward pressure on our costs and adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to recover these increased costs. At certain times, however, we may also have more personnel than we need in certain skill sets or geographies. In these situations, we must evaluate voluntary attrition and use reduced levels of new hiring and increased involuntary terminations as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand in those geographies.  
  The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we might not be able to compete effectively.  
  The markets in which we offer our services are highly competitive. Our competitors include:  
             
    large multinational providers, including the services arms of large global technology providers (hardware, equipment and software), that offer some or all of the services that we do; 
                
    off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India, the Philippines and China, that offer services similar to those we offer, often at highly competitive prices and on more aggressive contractual terms;  
                
    niche solution or service providers or local competitors that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area, including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models;  
                
    accounting firms that are expanding or building their provision of some consulting services, including through acquisitions; and  
                
    in-house departments of large corporations that use their own resources, rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services we provide.  
     Some competitors are companies that may have greater financial, marketing or other resources than we do and, therefore, may be better able to compete for new work and skilled professionals.  
  Even if we have potential offerings that address marketplace or client needs, competitors may be more successful at selling similar services they offer, including to companies that are our clients. Some competitors are more established in certain emerging markets, and that may make executing our geographic expansion strategy in these markets more challenging. Additionally, competitors may also offer more aggressive contractual terms, which may affect our ability to win work. Our future performance is largely dependent on our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve, while expanding into additional markets. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and clients to competitors, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.  
  In addition, we may face greater competition due to consolidation of companies in the technology sector, through strategic mergers or acquisitions. Consolidation activity may result in new competitors with greater scale, a broader footprint or offerings that are more attractive than ours. For example, there has been a trend toward consolidation among hardware manufacturers, software developers and vendors, and service providers, which has resulted in the convergence of products and services. Over time, our access to such products and services may be reduced as a result of this consolidation. Additionally, vertically integrated companies are able to offer as a single provider more integrated services (software and hardware) to clients than we can in some cases, and therefore may represent a more attractive alternative to clients. If buyers of services favor using a single provider for an integrated technology stack, such buyers may direct more business to such competitors, and this could materially adversely affect our competitive position and our results of operations.  
  We could have liability or our reputation could be damaged if we fail to protect client and/or Accenture data or information systems as obligated by law or contract or if our information systems are breached.  
  We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to securely process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients, alliance partners, and vendors. As the breadth and complexity of this infrastructure continue to grow, the potential risk of security breaches and cyberattacks increases. Such breaches could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.  
  In providing services to clients, we often manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or Accenture data, including personal data. As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the national laws implementing the European Union Directive on Data Protection and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and sometimes conflict among the various countries in which we operate. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or Accenture data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. These monetary damages might not be subject to a contractual limit of liability or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages and could be significant. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or Accenture data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our  
    13 

     Table of Contents     

   information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, including a cyberattack by computer programmers and hackers who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs, could result in negative publicity, significant remediation costs, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our liability insurance might not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyberattacks and other related breaches. 
  As a result of our geographically diverse operations and our growth strategy to continue geographic expansion, we are more susceptible to certain risks.  
  We have offices and operations in more than 200 cities in 54 countries around the world. One aspect of our growth strategy is to continue to expand globally, and particularly to seek significant growth in our priority emerging markets. Our growth strategy might not be successful. If we are unable to manage the risks of our global operations and geographic expansion strategy, including international hostilities, natural disasters, security breaches, failure to maintain compliance with our clients  control requirements and multiple legal and regulatory systems, our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected. In addition, emerging markets generally involve greater financial and operational risks, such as those described below, than our more mature markets. Negative or uncertain political climates in countries or geographies where we operate could also adversely affect us.  
  We could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies.    In some countries, we could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies, which would limit our ability to use this cash across our global operations. This risk could increase as we continue our geographic expansion in emerging markets, which are more likely to impose these restrictions than more established markets.  
  International hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics and infrastructure disruptions could prevent us from effectively serving our clients and thus adversely affect our results of operations.    Acts of terrorist violence; political unrest; armed regional and international hostilities and international responses to these hostilities; natural disasters, like the earthquake and resulting tsunami in Japan in March 2011, volcanic eruptions, floods and other severe weather conditions; global health emergencies or pandemics or the threat of or perceived potential for these events; and other acts of god could have a negative impact on us. These events could adversely affect our clients  levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. These events also pose significant risks to our people and to physical facilities and operations around the world, whether the facilities are ours or those of our alliance partners or clients. By disrupting communications and travel and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly skilled and qualified personnel, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver services to our clients. Extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at, or security breaches in, our facilities or systems, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. We might be unable to protect our people, facilities and systems against all such occurrences. We generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, conflicts and wars. If these disruptions prevent us from effectively serving our clients, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 
  Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business.    We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anticorruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations. This includes in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients also could result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws may not be well developed or provide sufficiently clear guidance and may be insufficient to protect our rights.  
  In particular, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws, or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. Our employees, subcontractors, agents, alliance or joint venture partners and other third parties with which we associate, could take actions that violate policies or procedures designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, including U.S. federal contracting, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation.  
    14 

     Table of Contents     

   Changes in laws and regulations could also mandate significant and costly changes to the way we implement our services and solutions or could impose additional taxes on our services and solutions. For example, changes in laws and regulations to limit using off-shore resources in connection with our work or to penalize companies that use off-shore resources, which have been proposed from time to time in various jurisdictions, could adversely affect our results of operations. Such changes may result in contracts being terminated or work being transferred on-shore, resulting in greater costs to us. In addition, these changes could have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future work from government clients.  
  Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 
  Although we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars, a majority of our net revenues is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, the uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain European countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations and the related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. In the event that one or more European countries were to replace the euro with another currency, operations in that country or in Europe generally may be adversely affected. 
  Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, expenses and income, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance-sheet items, including intercompany payables and receivables, originally denominated in other currencies. These changes cause our growth in consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be higher or lower than our growth in local currency when compared against other periods. Our currency hedging program, which is designed to partially offset the impact on consolidated earnings related to the changes in value of certain balance sheet items, might not be successful. 
  As we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services. An increase in the value of certain currencies, such as the Indian rupee, against the U.S. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at off-shore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currency. Our contractual provisions or cost management efforts might not be able to offset their impact, and our currency hedging activities, which are designed to partially offset this impact, might not be successful. This could result in a decrease in the profitability of our contracts that are utilizing delivery center resources. In addition, our currency hedging activities are themselves subject to risk. These include risks related to counterparty performance under hedging contracts and risks related to currency fluctuations. We also face risks that extreme economic conditions, political instability, or hostilities or disasters of the type described above could impact or perhaps eliminate the underlying exposures that we are hedging. Such an event could lead to losses being recognized on the currency hedges then in place that are not offset by anticipated changes in the underlying hedge exposure.  
  Our Global Delivery Network is increasingly concentrated in India and the Philippines, which may expose us to operational risks.  
  Our business model is dependent on our Global Delivery Network, which includes Accenture personnel based at more than 50 delivery centers around the world. While these delivery centers are located throughout the world, we have based large portions of our delivery network in India, where we have the largest number of people in our delivery network located, and the Philippines, where we have the second largest number of people located. Concentrating our Global Delivery Network in these locations presents a number of operational risks, many of which are beyond our control. For example, natural disasters of the type described above, some of which India and the Philippines have experienced and other countries may experience, could impair the ability of our people to safely travel to and work in our facilities and disrupt our ability to perform work through our delivery centers. Additionally, both the Philippines and India have experienced, and other countries may experience, political instability and worker strikes. India in particular has experienced civil unrest and hostilities with neighboring countries, including Pakistan. Military activity or civil hostilities in the future, as well as terrorist activities and other conditions, which are described more fully above, could significantly disrupt our ability to perform work through our delivery centers. Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be effective, particularly if catastrophic events occur. If any of these circumstances occurs, we have a greater risk that the interruptions in communications with our clients and other Accenture locations and personnel, and any down-time in important processes we operate for clients, could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation in the marketplace.  
  Our results of operations could materially suffer if we are not able to obtain sufficient pricing to enable us to meet our profitability expectations.  
  If we are not able to obtain sufficient pricing for our services, our revenues and profitability could materially suffer. The rates we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including:  
             
    general economic and political conditions;  
                
    the competitive environment in our industry, as described below;  
                
    our clients  desire to reduce their costs;  
       15 

     Table of Contents     

our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain contract revenues, margins and cash flows over the full contract period, which includes our ability to estimate the impact of inflation and foreign exchange on our margins over long-term contracts; and  
                
    procurement practices of clients and their use of third-party advisors.  
     The competitive environment in our industry affects our ability to obtain favorable pricing in a number of ways, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. The less we are able to differentiate our services and solutions and/or clearly convey the value of our services and solutions, the more risk we have that they will be seen as commodities, with price being the driving factor in selecting a service provider. In addition, the introduction of new services or products by competitors could reduce our ability to obtain favorable pricing for the services or products we offer. Competitors may be willing, at times, to price contracts lower than us in an effort to enter the market or increase market share. Further, if competitors develop and implement methodologies that yield greater efficiency and productivity, they may be better positioned to offer services similar to ours at lower prices.  
  If our pricing estimates do not accurately anticipate the cost, risk and complexity of performing our work or third parties upon whom we rely do not meet their commitments, then our contracts could have delivery inefficiencies and be unprofitable.  
  Our pricing for our services and solutions is highly dependent on our forecasts and predictions about the level of effort and cost necessary to deliver such services and solutions, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be materially inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the effort, costs or timing for meeting our contractual commitments and/or completing projects to a client s satisfaction, our contracts could yield lower profit margins than planned, or be unprofitable. Our pricing, cost and profit margin estimates on our consulting work and frequently on our outsourcing work, include anticipated long-term cost savings for the client that we expect to achieve and sustain over the life of the contract. We may fail to accurately assess the risks associated with potential contracts. This could result in existing contracts and contracts entered into in the future being less profitable than expected or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability.  
  If we experience unanticipated delivery difficulties due to our management, the failure of third parties to meet their commitments, or for any other reason, our contracts could yield lower profit margins than planned or be unprofitable. In particular, large and complex arrangements often require that we utilize subcontractors or that our services and solutions incorporate or coordinate with the software, systems or infrastructure requirements of other vendors and service providers, including companies with which we have alliances. Our profitability depends on the ability of these subcontractors, vendors and service providers to deliver their products and services in a timely manner and in accordance with the project requirements, as well as on our effective oversight of their performance. Some of this work involves new technologies, which may not work as intended or may take more effort to implement than initially predicted. In some cases, these subcontractors are small firms, and they might not have the resources or experience to successfully integrate their services or products with large-scale projects or enterprises. In addition, certain client work requires the use of unique and complex structures and alliances, some of which require us to assume responsibility for the performance of third parties whom we do not control. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to perform and subject us to additional liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on relationships with our clients and on our results of operations.  
  Our work with government clients exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment.  
  Our clients include national, provincial, state and local governmental entities. Our government work carries various risks inherent in the government contracting process. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: 
             
    Government entities, particularly in the United States, often reserve the right to audit our contract costs and conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to government contracts. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, routinely audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs and compliance with the Cost Accounting Standards. These agencies also conduct reviews and investigations and make inquiries regarding our accounting and other systems in connection with our performance and business practices with respect to our government contracts. Negative findings from existing and future audits, investigations or inquiries could affect our future sales and profitability by preventing us, by operation of law or in practice, from receiving new government contracts for some period of time. In addition, if the U.S. government concludes that certain costs are not reimbursable, have not been properly determined or are based on outdated estimates of our work, then we will not be allowed to bill for such costs, may have to refund money that has already been paid to us, or could be required to retroactively and prospectively adjust previously agreed to billing or pricing rates for our work. Negative findings from existing and future audits of our business systems, including our accounting system, may result in the U.S. government preventing us from billing, at least temporarily, a percentage of our costs. As a result of prior negative findings in connection with audits, investigations and inquiries, we have from time to time experienced some of the adverse consequences described above, and may in the future experience adverse consequences, which could materially adversely affect our future results of operations. 
       16 

     Table of Contents     

If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties, including those under the civil U.S. False Claims Act, and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of that government. The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities.  
                
    U.S. government contracting regulations impose strict compliance and disclosure obligations. Disclosure is required if certain company personnel have knowledge of  credible evidence  of a violation of federal criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery or improper gratuity, a violation of the civil U.S. False Claims Act or receipt of a significant overpayment from the government. Failure to make required disclosures could be a basis for suspension and/or debarment from federal government contracting in addition to breach of the specific contract and could also impact contracting beyond the U.S. federal level. Reported matters also could lead to audits or investigations and other civil, criminal or administrative sanctions.  
                
    Government contracts are subject to heightened reputational and contractual risks compared to contracts with commercial clients. For example, government contracts and the proceedings surrounding them are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity. Negative publicity, including an allegation of improper or illegal activity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation.  
                
    Terms and conditions of government contracts also tend to be more onerous and are often more difficult to negotiate. For example, these contracts often contain high or unlimited liability for breaches and feature less favorable payment terms and sometimes require us to take on liability for the performance of third parties. 
                
    Government entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. While these projects are often planned and executed as multi-year projects, government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects for lack of approved funding and/or at their convenience. Changes in government or political developments, including budget deficits, shortfalls or uncertainties, government spending reductions (e.g., Congressional sequestration of funds under the Budget Control Act of 2011) or other debt constraints, such as those recently experienced in the United States and Europe, could result in our projects being reduced in price or scope or terminated altogether, which also could limit our recovery of incurred costs, reimbursable expenses and profits on work completed prior to the termination. Furthermore, if insufficient funding is appropriated to the government entity to cover termination costs, we may not be able to fully recover our investments.  
                
    Political and economic factors such as pending elections, the outcome of recent elections, changes in leadership among key executive or legislative decision makers, revisions to governmental tax or other policies and reduced tax revenues can affect the number and terms of new government contracts signed or the speed at which new contracts are signed, decrease future levels of spending and authorizations for programs that we bid, shift spending priorities to programs in areas for which we do not provide services and/or lead to changes in enforcement or how compliance with relevant rules or laws is assessed.      
                
    Legislative proposals remain under consideration or could be proposed in the future, which, if enacted, could limit or even prohibit our eligibility to be awarded state or federal government contracts in the United States in the future. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced and/or enacted in recent years that deny government contracts to certain U.S. companies that reincorporate or have reincorporated outside the United States. While Accenture was not a U.S. company that reincorporated outside the United States, it is possible that these contract bans and other legislative proposals could be applied in a way to negatively affect Accenture.  
     The occurrences or conditions described above could affect not only our business with the particular government entities involved, but also our business with other entities of the same or other governmental bodies or with certain commercial clients, and could have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations.  
  Our business could be materially adversely affected if we incur legal liability in connection with providing our services and solutions.  
  We could be subject to significant legal liability and litigation expense if we fail to meet our contractual obligations, or otherwise breach obligations, to third parties, including clients, alliance partners, employees and former employees, and other parties with whom we conduct business, or if our subcontractors breach or dispute the terms of our agreements with them and impede our ability to meet our obligations to our clients. We may enter into agreements with non-standard terms because we perceive an important economic opportunity or because our personnel did not adequately follow our contracting guidelines. In addition, the contracting practices of competitors, along with the demands of increasingly sophisticated clients, may cause contract terms and conditions that are unfavorable to us to become new standards in the marketplace. We may find ourselves committed to providing services or solutions that we are unable to deliver or whose delivery will reduce our profitability or cause us financial loss. If we cannot or do not meet our contractual obligations and if our potential liability is not adequately limited through the terms of our agreements, liability limitations are not enforced or a third party alleges fraud or other wrongdoing to prevent us from  
    17 

     Table of Contents     

   relying upon those contractual protections, we might face significant legal liability and litigation expense and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. A failure of a client s system based on our services or solutions could also subject us to a claim for significant damages that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to expense, litigation can be lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and litigation results can be unpredictable. While we maintain insurance for certain potential liabilities, such insurance does not cover all types and amounts of potential liabilities and is subject to various exclusions as well as caps on amounts recoverable. Even if we believe a claim is covered by insurance, insurers may dispute our entitlement to recovery for a variety of potential reasons, which may affect the timing and, if they prevail, the amount of our recovery.  
  Our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if we cannot adapt and expand our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings by new entrants.  
  Our success depends on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology and industry developments and offerings by new entrants to serve the evolving needs of our clients. Current areas of significant change include mobility, cloud-based computing and the processing and analyzing of large amounts of data. Technological developments such as these may materially affect the cost and use of technology by our clients. Our growth strategy focuses on responding to these types of developments by driving innovation for our core business as well as through new business initiatives beyond our core business that will enable us to differentiate our services and solutions. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments and successfully drive innovation, our services and solutions, our results of operations, and our ability to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and continue to grow could be negatively affected.  
  In addition, we operate in a quickly evolving environment, in which there currently are, and we expect will continue to be, new technology entrants. New services or technologies offered by competitors or new entrants may make our offerings less differentiated or less competitive, when compared to other alternatives, which may adversely affect our results of operations.  
  Our alliance relationships may not be successful or may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations.    
  We have alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our own. A very significant portion of our services and solutions are based on technology or software provided by a few major providers that are our alliance partners. See  Business Alliances.  The priorities and objectives of our alliance partners may differ from ours. As most of our alliance relationships are non-exclusive, our alliance partners are not prohibited from competing with us or forming closer or preferred arrangements with our competitors. One or more of our key alliance partners may be acquired by a competitor, or key alliances partners might merge with each other, either of which could reduce our access over time to the technology or software provided by those partners. If we do not obtain the expected benefits from our alliance relationships for any reason, we may be less competitive, our ability to offer attractive solutions to our clients may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely affected.  
  Outsourcing services and the continued expansion of our other services and solutions into new areas subject us to different operational risks than our consulting and systems integration services.  
  Outsourcing services, which represented approximately 44% of our net revenues in fiscal 2012, present different operational risks, when compared to our consulting and systems integration services. Our outsourcing services involve taking over the operation of certain portions of our clients  businesses, which may include the operation of functions that are critical to the core businesses of our clients. Disruptions in service or other performance problems could damage our clients  businesses, expose us to claims, and harm our reputation and our business. 
  We have continued to expand our services and solutions into new business areas, and we expect to continue to expand our services and solutions in these and other new areas in the future. Expanding into new areas may expose us to additional regulatory or other risks specific to these new areas. We could also incur liability for failure to comply with laws or regulations applicable to the services we provide clients.  
  We may also face exposure in our outsourcing business if we contribute to internal controls issues of a client. If a process we manage for a client were to result in internal controls failures at the client or impair our client s ability to comply with its own internal control requirements, there is a risk that we could face legal liability. Many of our clients request that we obtain an audit under Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements No. 16 and International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3402, formerly referred to as SAS 70. If we receive a qualified opinion, or do not deliver the audit reports timely, our ability to acquire new clients and retain existing clients may be adversely affected and our reputation could be harmed.  
  Our services or solutions could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others or we might lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others.  
  We cannot be sure that our services and solutions, including, for example, our software solutions, or the solutions of others that we offer to our clients, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and these third parties could claim that we or our clients are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. These claims could harm our reputation, cost us money  
    18 

     Table of Contents     

   or prevent us from offering some services or solutions. Any related proceedings could require us to expend significant time and effort over an extended period of time. In most of our contracts, we agree to indemnify our clients for expenses and liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of the intellectual property rights of third parties. In some instances, the amount of these indemnities could be greater than the revenues we receive from the client. Any claims or litigation in this area could be time-consuming and costly, injure our reputation and/or require us to incur additional costs to obtain the right to continue to offer a service or solution to our clients. If we cannot secure this right at all or on reasonable terms, or we cannot substitute alternative technology, our operations could be materially adversely affected. The risk of infringement claims against us may increase as we expand our industry software solutions and continue to develop and license our software to multiple clients.       Additionally, individuals and firms have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies. If a claim of infringement were successful against us or our clients, an injunction might be ordered against our client or our own services or operations, causing further damages.  
  We could lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others. Third-party suppliers of software, hardware or other intellectual assets could be acquired or sued, and this could disrupt use of their products or services by Accenture and our clients. If our ability to provide services and solutions to our clients is impaired, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  
  We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success.  
  Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property. Existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and the protection in some countries may be very limited. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. These laws are subject to change at any time and could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. Our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative of ours. Further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money and oversight and we may not be successful in enforcing our rights.  
  Depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific client greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. In certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other clients. Any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop new or modified solutions for future projects.  
  Our ability to attract and retain business and employees may depend on our reputation in the marketplace.  
  We believe the Accenture brand name and our reputation are important corporate assets that help distinguish our services from those of competitors and also contribute to our efforts to recruit and retain talented employees. However, our corporate reputation is potentially susceptible to material damage by events such as disputes with clients, information technology security breaches or service outages, internal control deficiencies or delivery failures. Similarly, our reputation could be damaged by actions or statements of current or former clients, directors, employees, competitors, vendors, alliance partners, our joint ventures or joint venture partners, adversaries in legal proceedings or government regulators, as well as members of the investment community or the media. There is a risk that negative information about Accenture, even if based on rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our business. Damage to our reputation could be difficult and time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements, resulting in a loss of business, and could adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the value and effectiveness of the Accenture brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us, materially adversely affecting our share price.  
  We might not be successful at identifying, acquiring or integrating businesses or entering into joint ventures.  
  We expect to continue pursuing strategic and targeted acquisitions and joint ventures intended to enhance or add to our offerings of services and solutions, or to enable us to expand in certain geographic and other markets. Depending on the opportunities available, we may increase the amount of investment in such acquisitions or joint ventures. We may not successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or joint venture opportunities. We also might not succeed in completing targeted transactions or achieve desired results of operations. Furthermore, we face risks in successfully integrating any businesses we might acquire or create through a joint venture. Ongoing business may be disrupted and our management s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities. In addition, we might need to dedicate additional management and other resources, and our organizational structure could make it difficult for us to efficiently integrate acquired businesses into our ongoing operations and assimilate and retain employees of those businesses into our culture and operations. We may have difficulties as a result of entering into new markets where we have limited or no direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions.  
    19 

     Table of Contents     

   We might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any acquisition or joint venture we undertake. We might not achieve our expected return on investment, or may lose money. We may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume from a company we acquire or in which we invest, including from that company s known and unknown obligations, intellectual property or other assets, terminated employees, current or former clients, or other third parties, and may fail to identify or adequately assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring, investing in or partnering with a company, which could result in unexpected legal or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes or other adverse effects on our business. By their nature, joint ventures involve a lesser degree of control over the business operations of the joint venture itself, particularly when we have a minority position. This lesser degree of control may expose us to additional financial, legal, compliance or operational risks. If we are unable to complete the number and kind of acquisitions or joint ventures for which we plan, or if we are inefficient or unsuccessful at integrating any acquired businesses into our operations, we may not be able to achieve our planned rates of growth or improve our market share, profitability or competitive position in specific markets or services. 
  Our profitability could suffer if our cost-management strategies are unsuccessful, and we may not be able to improve our profitability through improvements to cost-management to the degree we have done in the past.  
  Our ability to improve or maintain our profitability is dependent on our being able to successfully manage our costs. Our cost management strategies include maintaining appropriate alignment between the demand for our services and our resource capacity, optimizing the costs of service delivery and maintaining or improving our sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues. We have also taken actions to reduce certain costs, and these initiatives include, without limitation, global consolidation of our office space and re-alignment of portions of our non-client-facing workforce to lower-cost locations. These actions and our other cost-management efforts may not be successful, our efficiency may not be enhanced and we may not achieve desired levels of profitability. Over time, we have seen an improvement in general and administrative costs. Because of the significant steps taken in the past to reduce costs, we may not be able to continue to deliver efficiencies in our cost management, to the same degree as in the past. If we are not effective in reducing our operating costs in response to changes in demand or pricing, or if we are unable to absorb or pass on increases in the compensation of our employees by continuing to move more work to lower-cost locations or otherwise, our margins and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  
  Many of our contracts include payments that link some of our fees to the attainment of performance or business targets and/or require us to meet specific service levels. This could increase the variability of our revenues and impact our margins.  
  Many of our contracts include clauses that tie our compensation to the achievement of agreed-upon performance standards or milestones. If we fail to satisfy these measures, it could significantly reduce or eliminate our fees under the contracts, increase the cost to us of meeting performance standards or milestones, delay expected payments or subject us to potential damage claims under the contract terms. Clients also often have the right to terminate a contract and pursue damage claims under the contract for serious or repeated failure to meet these service commitments. We also have a number of contracts, in both outsourcing and consulting, in which a portion of our compensation depends on performance measures such as cost-savings, revenue enhancement, benefits produced, business goals attained and adherence to schedule. These goals can be complex and may depend on our clients  actual levels of business activity or may be based on assumptions that are later determined not to be achievable or accurate. These provisions could increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on those contracts.  
  Changes in our level of taxes, and audits, investigations and tax proceedings, or changes in our treatment as an Irish company, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  
  We are subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. We calculate and provide for income taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. Tax accounting often involves complex matters and requires our judgment to determine our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with our judgments, or may take increasingly aggressive positions opposing the judgments we make. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of our audits to determine the appropriateness of our tax liabilities. However, our judgments might not be sustained as a result of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. Tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate may change as a result of macroeconomic or other factors outside of our control. Increases in the tax rate in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a negative impact on our profitability. In addition, changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable, particularly in less developed markets, and could become more stringent, which could materially adversely affect our tax position. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  
  Although we expect to be able to rely on the tax treaty between the United States and Ireland, legislative or diplomatic action could be taken that would prevent us from being able to rely on such treaty. Our inability to rely on such treaty would subject us to increased taxation or significant additional expense. Congressional proposals could change the definition of a U.S. person for  
    20 

     Table of Contents     

   U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could subject us to increased taxation. In addition, we could be materially adversely affected by future changes in tax law or policy in Ireland or other jurisdictions where we operate, including their treaties with Ireland or the United States. These changes could be exacerbated by economic, budget or other challenges facing Ireland or these other jurisdictions.  
  If we are unable to manage the organizational challenges associated with our size, we might be unable to achieve our business objectives.  
  As of August 31, 2012, we had approximately 257,000 employees worldwide. Our size and scale present significant management and organizational challenges. It might become increasingly difficult to maintain effective standards across a large enterprise and effectively institutionalize our knowledge. It might also become more difficult to maintain our culture, effectively manage and monitor our personnel and operations and effectively communicate our core values, policies and procedures, strategies and goals, particularly given our world-wide operations. Finally, the size and scope of our operations increase the possibility that we will have employees who engage in unlawful or fraudulent activity, or otherwise expose us to unacceptable business risks, despite our efforts to train them and maintain internal controls to prevent such instances. For example, the inappropriate use of social networking sites by our employees could result in breaches of confidentiality, unauthorized disclosure of non-public company information or damage to our reputation. If we do not continue to develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our enterprise and instill our culture and core values into all of our employees, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired.  
  If we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.  
  Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. In limited circumstances, we also extend financing to our clients. We have established allowances for losses of receivables and unbilled services. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and as a result we might need to adjust our allowances. We might not accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, including bankruptcy and insolvency. This could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. In addition, in certain geographies and industries, some clients have requested extended payment terms more frequently, and if this trend continues, our cash flows could be adversely affected. Recovery of client financing and timely collection of client balances also depend on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. 
  Our share price and results of operations could fluctuate and be difficult to predict.  
  Our share price has fluctuated in the past and could continue to fluctuate in the future in response to various factors. These factors include:  
             
    changes in macroeconomic or political factors unrelated to our business;  
                
    general or industry-specific market conditions or changes in financial markets;  
                
    announcements by us or competitors about developments in our business or prospects;  
                
    projections or speculation about our business or that of competitors by the media or investment analysts;  
                
    our ability to generate enough free cash flow to return cash to our shareholders at historical levels or levels expected by our shareholders; and  
                
    our failure to meet our growth and financial objectives, including with respect to our overall revenue growth and revenue growth for our priority emerging markets and earnings per share growth.  
     Our results of operations have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future, making them difficult to predict. Some of the factors that could cause our results of operations to vary include:  
             
    the business decisions of our clients to begin to curtail or reduce the use of our services, including in response to changes in macroeconomic or political conditions unrelated to our business or general market conditions;  
                
    periodic differences between our clients  estimated and actual levels of business activity associated with ongoing work, as well as the stage of completion of existing projects and/or their termination or restructuring;  
                
    contract delivery inefficiencies, such as those due to poor delivery or changes in forecasts;  
       21 

     Table of Contents     

our ability to transition employees quickly from completed to new projects and maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our workforces;  
                
    acquisition, integration and operational costs related to businesses acquired;  
                
    the introduction of new products or services by us, competitors or alliance partners;  
                
    changes in our pricing or competitors  pricing;  
                
    our ability to manage costs, including those for our own or subcontracted personnel, travel, support services and severance;  
                
    our ability to limit and manage the incurrence of pre-contract costs, which must be expensed without corresponding revenues, which are then recognized in later periods without the corresponding costs; 
                
    changes in, or the application of changes in, accounting principles or pronouncements under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, particularly those related to revenue recognition;  
                
    currency exchange rate fluctuations;  
                
    changes in estimates, accruals or payments of variable compensation to our employees; 
                
    global, regional and local economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and  
                
    seasonality, including number of workdays and holiday and summer vacations.  
     As a result of any of the above factors, or any of the other risks described in this Item 1A,  Risk Factors,  our share price could be difficult to predict, and our share price in the past might not be a good indicator of the price of our shares in the future. In addition, if litigation is instituted against us following declines in our share price, we might need to devote substantial time and resources to responding to the litigation, and our share price could be materially adversely affected.  
  Our results of operations and share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls.  
  The accuracy of our financial reporting is dependent on the effectiveness of our internal controls. We are required to provide a report from management to our shareholders on our internal control over financial reporting that includes an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls. Internal control over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including human error, the possibility that controls could be circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud. Because of these inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting might not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we could suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, be unable to properly report on our business and our results of operations, or be required to restate our financial statements, and our results of operations, the market price of our securities and our ability to obtain new business could be materially adversely affected.  
  We are incorporated in Ireland and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it might not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. We may also be subject to criticism and negative publicity related to our incorporation in Ireland.  
  We are organized under the laws of Ireland, and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. A shareholder who obtains a court judgment based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws may be unable to enforce the judgment against us in Ireland or in countries other than the United States where we have assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Ireland and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States and Ireland do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. The laws of Ireland do, however, as a general rule, provide that the judgments of the courts of the United States have the same validity in Ireland as if rendered by Irish Courts. Certain important requirements must be satisfied before the Irish Courts will recognize the U.S. judgment. The originating court must have been a court of competent jurisdiction and the judgment may not be recognized if it was obtained by fraud or its recognition would be contrary to Irish public policy. Any judgment obtained in contravention of the rules of natural justice or that is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment would not be enforced in Ireland.  
  Similarly, judgments might not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where we have assets.  
  Some companies that conduct substantial business in the United States but which have a parent domiciled in certain other jurisdictions have been criticized as improperly avoiding U.S. taxes or creating an unfair competitive advantage over other U.S. companies. Accenture never conducted business under a U.S. parent company and pays U.S. taxes on all of its U.S. operations. Nonetheless, we could be subject to criticism in connection with our incorporation in Ireland.  
    22 

     Table of Contents     

   Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and might afford less protection to shareholders.  
  Our shareholders could have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Companies Acts 1963 to 2012 of Ireland (the  Companies Acts ). The Companies Acts differ in some significant, and possibly material, respects from laws applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders under various state corporation laws, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors.  
  Under Irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company under Irish law, and may only do so in limited circumstances. Directors of an Irish company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act with due care and skill, honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests might conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any contract or arrangement with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a director or officer of an Irish company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he could be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty.  
  We might be unable to access additional capital on favorable terms or at all. If we raise equity capital, it may dilute our shareholders  ownership interest in us.  
  We might choose to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to:  
             
    take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion;  
                
    acquire other businesses or assets;  
                
    repurchase shares from our shareholders;  
                
    develop new services and solutions; or  
                
    respond to competitive pressures.  
     Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity could dilute shareholders  ownership percentage in us. Furthermore, any additional financing we need might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. 
    ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
  None. 
    ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES 
  We have major offices in the world s leading business centers, including Boston, Chicago, New York, San Francisco, Sao Paolo, Frankfurt, London, Madrid, Milan, Paris, Rome, Bangalore, Beijing, Manila, Shanghai, Sydney and Tokyo, among others. In total, we have offices and operations in more than 200 cities in 54 countries around the world. We do not own any material real property. Substantially all of our office space is leased under long-term leases with varying expiration dates. We believe that our facilities are adequate to meet our needs in the near future. 
    ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
  We are involved in a number of judicial and arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising in the ordinary course of our business. We and/or our personnel also from time to time are involved in investigations by various regulatory or legal authorities concerning matters arising in the course of our business around the world. We do not expect that any of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. 
  We currently maintain the types and amounts of insurance customary in the industries and countries in which we operate, including coverage for professional liability, general liability and management liability. We consider our insurance coverage to be adequate both as to the risks and amounts for the businesses we conduct. 
    ITEM 4.    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
  Not applicable. 
    Executive Officers of the Registrant 
  Our executive officers and persons chosen to become executive officers as of the date hereof are as follows: 
  Gianfranco Casati  , 53, became our group chief executive Products operating group in September 2006. From April 2002 to September 2006, Mr. Casati was managing director of the Products operating group s Europe operating unit. He also served as Accenture s country managing director for Italy and as chairman of our geographic council in its IGEM (Italy, Greece, emerging markets) region, supervising Accenture offices in Italy, Greece and several Eastern European countries. Mr. Casati has been with Accenture for 28 years. 
    23 

     Table of Contents     

   Martin I. Cole  , 56, became our group chief executive Technology in March 2012.  Prior to that, Mr. Cole served as our group chief executive Communications, Media   Technology operating group from September 2006 to March 2012.  Previously he served as our group chief executive Public Service operating group from September 2004 to September 2006. From September 2000 to August 2004, he served in leadership roles in our outsourcing group, including serving as global managing partner of our Outsourcing   Infrastructure Delivery group. Mr. Cole has been with Accenture for 32 years. 
  Shawn Collinson  , 51, became our chief strategy officer in March 2011. From September 2009 to March 2011, Mr. Collinson served as our managing director Industries   Market Innovation. Prior to that, he held numerous leadership roles in our Resources operating group, including as managing director Management Consulting from September 2006 to August 2009. Mr. Collinson has been with Accenture for 22 years. 
  Anthony G. Coughlan  , 55, has been our chief accounting officer since September 2004 and served as our controller from September 2001 until August 2010. Mr. Coughlan previously served as a director of Avanade from September 2008 until February 2011, and served as the chair of its Audit Committee from November 2008 until February 2011. Mr. Coughlan has been with Accenture for 34 years. 
  Pamela J. Craig  , 55, has been our chief financial officer since October 2006. From March 2004 to October 2006, she was our senior vice president Finance. Previously, Ms. Craig was our group director Business Operations   Services from March 2003 to March 2004, and was our managing partner Global Business Operations from June 2001 to March 2003. Ms. Craig served as a director of Avanade from February 2006 until July 2009, and was a member of its Audit Committee. Ms. Craig has been with Accenture for 33 years. 
  Johan (Jo) G. Deblaere  , 50, became our chief operating officer in September 2009. From September 2006 to September 2009, Mr. Deblaere served as our chief operating officer Outsourcing. Prior to that, from September 2005 to September 2006, he led our global network of business process outsourcing delivery centers. From September 2000 to September 2005, he had overall responsibility for work with public-sector clients in Western Europe. Mr. Deblaere has been with Accenture for 27 years. 
  William D. Green  , 59, became chairman of the Board of Directors on August 31, 2006, and has been a director since June 2001. Mr. Green was our chief executive officer from September 2004 to January 1, 2011 when he became our executive chairman. From March 2003 to August 2004, he was our chief operating officer Client Services, and from August 2000 to August 2004 he was our country managing director, United States. Mr. Green will step down as chairman and from the Board of Directors and retire from Accenture, effective February 1, 2013. Mr. Green has been with Accenture for 34 years.  
  Richard A. Lumb  , 51, became our group chief executive Financial Services operating group in December 2010. From June 2006 to December 2010, Mr. Lumb led our Financial Services operating group in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America. He also served as our managing director of business and market development Financial Services operating group from September 2005 to June 2006. Mr. Lumb has been with Accenture for 27 years. 
  Pierre Nanterme  , 53, became our chief executive officer on January 1, 2011. Mr. Nanterme was our group chief executive Financial Services operating group from September 2007 to December 2010. Prior to assuming this role, Mr. Nanterme held various leadership roles throughout the Company, including serving as our chief leadership officer from May 2006 through September 2007, and our country managing director for France from November 2005 to September 2007. Mr. Nanterme has been a director since October 2010 and has been appointed to succeed Mr. Green as chairman of the Board of Directors effective February 1, 2013. Mr. Nanterme has been with Accenture for 29 years.  
  Jean-Marc Ollagnier  , 50, became our group chief executive Resources operating group in March 2011. From September 2006 to March 2011, Mr. Ollagnier led our Resources operating group in Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. Previously, he served as our global managing director Financial Services Solutions group and as our geographic unit managing director Gallia. Mr. Ollagnier has been with Accenture for 26 years. 
  Stephen J. Rohleder  , 55, became our group chief executive Health   Public Service operating group in September 2009. From September 2004 to September 2009, Mr. Rohleder served as our chief operating officer. Prior to that, he was our group chief executive Public Service operating group from March 2003 to September 2004. From March 2000 to March 2003, he was managing partner of our Public Service operating group in the United States. Mr. Rohleder has been with Accenture for 31 years. 
  Michael (Mike) J. Salvino  , 47, became our group chief executive Business Process Outsourcing in September 2009. From July 2006 to September 2009, Mr. Salvino served as managing director Business Process Outsourcing. Previously, he served as the global sales and accounts co-leader of the HR outsourcing group at Hewitt Associates from January 2005 to July 2006, and as president of the Americas region for Exult Inc. from June 2003 to October 2004 prior to Exult s merger with Hewitt. Mr. Salvino was employed by Accenture from June 1987 until December 1992 and then again from October 1993 until June 2000 before rejoining in July 2006. 
  Robert E. Sell  , 50, became our group chief executive Communications, Media   Technology operating group in March 2012.  From September 2007 to March 2012, Mr. Sell led our Communications, Media   Technology operating group in North  
    24 

     Table of Contents     

   America. Prior to assuming that role, he served in a variety of leadership roles throughout Accenture, serving clients in a number of industries. Mr. Sell has been with Accenture for 28 years. 
  Jill Smart  , 52, became our chief human resources officer in September 2004. Previously, Ms. Smart was managing partner of HR delivery. From 2000 until 2003, she served as the head of our People Enablement business practice. Ms. Smart has been with Accenture for 31 years. 
  Julie Spellman Sweet  , 45, has been our general counsel, secretary and chief compliance officer since March 2010. Prior to joining Accenture, Ms. Sweet was, for 10 years, a partner in the Corporate department of the law firm of Cravath, Swaine   Moore LLP, which she joined as an associate in 1992. 
  Alexander M. van  t Noordende  , 49, became our group chief executive Management Consulting in March 2011. Mr. van      t Noordende was our group chief executive Resources operating group from September 2006 to March 2011. Prior to assuming that role, he led our Resources operating group in Southern Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America, and served as managing partner of the Resources operating group in France, Belgium and the Netherlands. From 2001 until September 2006, he served as our country managing director for the Netherlands. Mr. van  t Noordende has been with Accenture for 25 years. 
    
    25 

       Table of Contents     

   PART II 
    
    ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  Price Range of Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares 
  Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  ACN.  The New York Stock Exchange is the principal United States market for these shares. 
  The following table sets forth, on a per share basis for the periods indicated, the high and low sale prices for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares as reported by the New York Stock Exchange. 

The closing sale price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share as reported by the New York Stock Exchange consolidated tape as of October 22, 2012 was $67.83. As of October 22, 2012, there were 240 holders of record of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. 
  There is no trading market for Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares. As of October 22, 2012, there were 885 holders of record of Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares. 
  To ensure that senior executives continue to maintain equity ownership levels that we consider meaningful, we require current senior executives to comply with the Accenture Senior Executive Equity Ownership Policy. This policy requires senior executives to own Accenture equity valued at a multiple (ranging from     1   /  2   to 6) of their base compensation determined by their position level. 
  Dividend Policy 
   On November 15, 2010, May 13, 2011, November 15, 2011 and May 15, 2012, Accenture plc paid a cash dividend of $0.45, $0.45, $0.675 and $0.675 per share, respectively, on our Class A ordinary shares and Accenture SCA paid a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.45, $0.45, $0.675 and $0.675 per share, respectively, on its Class I common shares. 
  On   September 24, 2012  , the Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of   $0.81   per share on our Class A ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on   October 12, 2012  . Accenture plc will cause Accenture SCA to declare a semi-annual cash dividend of   $0.81   per share on its Class I common shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on   October 9, 2012  . Both dividends are payable on   November 15, 2012  . 
  Future dividends on Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, if any, and the timing of declaration of any such dividends, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors of Accenture plc and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the Board of Directors of Accenture plc may deem relevant, as well as our ability to pay dividends in compliance with the Companies Acts. 
  In certain circumstances, as an Irish tax resident company, we may be required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. Shareholders resident in  relevant territories  (including countries that are European Union member states (other than Ireland), the United States and other countries with which Ireland has a tax treaty) may be exempted from Irish dividend withholding tax. However, shareholders residing in other countries will generally be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax. 
    26 

     Table of Contents     

   Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities 
  None. 
    
  Purchases and Redemptions of Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares and Class X Ordinary Shares 
  The following table provides information relating to our purchases of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and redemptions of Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares during the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012  . For year-to-date information on all share purchases, redemptions and exchanges by the Company and further discussion of our share purchase activity, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Share Purchases and Redemptions.  

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Average price paid per share reflects the total cash outlay for the period, divided by the number of shares acquired, including those acquired by purchase or redemption for cash and any acquired by means of employee forfeiture. 
              (2) 
    Since   August 2001  , the Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized and periodically confirmed a publicly announced open-market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. During the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012  , we purchased   10,407,689   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under this program for an aggregate price of   $603 million  . The open-market purchase program does not have an expiration date. 
              (3) 
    As of   August 31, 2012  , our aggregate available authorization for share purchases and redemptions was   $4,179 million  , which management has the discretion to use for either our publicly announced open-market share purchase program or the other share purchase programs. Since   August 2001   and as of   August 31, 2012  , the Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized an aggregate of   $20.1 billion   for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares. 
              (4) 
    During the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012  , Accenture purchased   834,073   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares in transactions unrelated to publicly announced share plans or programs. These transactions consisted of acquisitions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares primarily via share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection with the delivery of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under our various employee equity share plans. These purchases of shares in connection with employee share plans do not affect our aggregate available authorization for our publicly announced open-market share purchase and the other share purchase programs. 
        
    27 

     Table of Contents     

   Purchases and Redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I Common Shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. Exchangeable Shares 
  The following table provides additional information relating to our purchases and redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for cash during the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012  . We believe that the following table and footnotes provide useful information regarding the share purchase and redemption activity of Accenture. Generally, purchases and redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for cash and employee forfeitures reduce shares outstanding for purposes of computing diluted earnings per share. 

_______________  
           (1) 
    During the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012  , we acquired a total of   691,448   Accenture SCA Class I common shares and   25,300   Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares from current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees by means of purchase or redemption for cash, or employee forfeiture, as applicable. In addition, during the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012  , we issued   1,347,904   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares upon redemptions of an equivalent number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares pursuant to a registration statement. 
              (2) 
    Average price paid per share reflects the total cash outlay for the period, divided by the number of shares acquired, including those acquired by purchase or redemption for cash and any acquired by means of employee forfeiture. 
              (3) 
    As of   August 31, 2012  , our aggregate available authorization for share purchases and redemptions was   $4,179 million  , which management has the discretion to use for either our publicly announced open-market share purchase program or the other share purchase programs. Since   August 2001   and as of   August 31, 2012  , the Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized an aggregate of   $20.1 billion   for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares. 
       28 

       Table of Contents     

   ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
  The data as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011   and for fiscal   2012, 2011 and 2010   are derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes that are included elsewhere in this report. The data as of August 31,   2010  ,   2009   and   2008   and for fiscal   2009   and   2008   are derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes that are not included in this report. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this report. 

_______________    
            (2) 
    On September 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) on noncontrolling interests. As required, the guidance on noncontrolling interests was applied prospectively with the exception of presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively for all periods presented. Prior to fiscal 2010, Net income was referred to as Income before minority interest and Net income attributable to Accenture plc was referred to as Net income. 

_______________    
           (1) 
    In early fiscal 2010, we announced a move to declare and pay cash dividends on a semi-annual basis. During fiscal 2010, we paid a final annual cash dividend of $0.75 in addition to a transitional semi-annual cash dividend of $0.375. 
              (2) 
    Diluted earnings per share amounts have been restated to reflect the impact of the issuance of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units in connection with the fiscal 2012 payment of cash dividends. This restatement resulted in a one cent decrease in diluted earnings per share from $3.40 to $3.39 for fiscal 2011. 

_______________    
           (1) 
    On September 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance issued by the FASB on noncontrolling interests. As required, the guidance on noncontrolling interests was applied prospectively with the exception of presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively for all periods presented. 
       29 

       Table of Contents     

   ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis also contains forward-looking statements and should also be read in conjunction with the disclosures and information contained in  Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  and  Risk Factors  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  We use the terms  Accenture,   we,  the  Company,   our  and  us  in this report to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a reference to  fiscal   2012    means the 12-month period that ended on   August 31, 2012  . All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of our fiscal year. 
  We use the term  in local currency  so that certain financial results may be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of business performance. Financial results  in local currency  are calculated by restating current period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period s foreign currency exchange rates. This approach is used for all results where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. 
    Overview 
  Revenues are driven by the ability of our executives to secure new contracts and to deliver solutions and services that add value relevant to our clients  current needs and challenges. The level of revenues we achieve is based on our ability to deliver market-leading service offerings and to deploy skilled teams of professionals quickly and on a global basis. 
  Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions, including macroeconomic conditions, credit market conditions and levels of business confidence. There continues to be significant volatility in markets around the world, as well as economic and geopolitical uncertainty in many of the markets where we operate, which could impact our business, particularly in the United States and Europe. Such volatility and uncertainty has adversely affected and will in the future affect our clients and the levels of business activities in some industries and geographies where we operate, which may reduce demand for our services. This has also impacted the types of services our clients are demanding; for example, clients are requesting a higher volume of outsourcing services and placing a greater emphasis on cost savings initiatives. These changing demand patterns could have a material adverse effect on our new contract bookings and results of operations. We continue to monitor this volatility and uncertainty and seek to manage our costs in order to respond to changing conditions.  
  Revenues before reimbursements ( net revenues ) for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012   were   $6.84 billion  , compared with   $6.69 billion   for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2011  , an increase of   2%   in U.S. dollars and   9%   in local currency. Net revenues for   fiscal 2012   were   $27.86 billion  , compared with   $25.51 billion   for   fiscal 2011  , an increase of   9%   in U.S. dollars and   11%   in local currency. All of our operating groups experienced year-over-year revenue growth in local currency during the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012  . Revenue growth in local currency was very strong in outsourcing and continued to moderate in consulting during the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012  . We expect the level of year-over-year growth to continue to moderate in the near term and vary across operating groups and geographic regions, with growth in certain areas of our business, offset by lower growth or declines in other areas, particularly in consulting and in Europe.  
  In our consulting business, net revenues for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012   were   $3.74 billion  , compared with   $3.88 billion   for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2011  , a decrease of   4%   in U.S. dollars and an increase of   2%   in local currency. Net consulting revenues for   fiscal 2012   were   $15.56 billion  , compared with   $14.92 billion   for   fiscal 2011  , an increase of   4%   in U.S. dollars and   6%   in local currency. Four of our five operating groups, including Health   Public Service, Financial Services, Resources and Products, experienced quarterly year-over-year revenue growth in local currency, while Communications, Media   Technology experienced a significant decline in quarterly year-over-year revenue. In our consulting business overall, clients are exercising caution by reducing their demand for small projects. In addition, when larger projects are initiated, they are of longer duration and convert to revenue at a slower rate. These trends have led to lower consulting revenue growth and declines in certain areas of our business, and we expect this to continue in the near term. Clients continued to be focused on initiatives designed to deliver cost savings and operational efficiency, as well as projects to integrate their global operations and grow and transform their businesses. We are also experiencing growing demand for our services in emerging technologies, including analytics, cloud computing and mobility. Compared to   fiscal 2011  , we continued to provide a greater proportion of systems integration consulting through use of lower-cost resources in our Global Delivery Network, and we expect this trend to continue. While the business environment remained competitive, pricing was relatively stable, and we saw some improvement in certain areas of our business. 
  In our outsourcing business, net revenues for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012   were   $3.10 billion  , compared with   $2.81 billion   for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2011  , an increase of   10%   in U.S. dollars and   18%   in local currency. Net outsourcing revenues for   fiscal 2012   were   $12.30 billion  , compared with   $10.58 billion   for   fiscal 2011  , an increase of   16%   in U.S. dollars and   19%   in local currency. All five of our operating groups experienced year-over-year outsourcing revenue growth in local currency during the  
    30 

     Table of Contents     

   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012  , led by very significant growth in Financial Services and very strong growth in Products, Communication, Media   Technology and Resources. This strong demand for outsourcing services resulted in a greater proportion of revenues in outsourcing, particularly in Communications, Media   Technology and Financial Services, and this trend is expected to continue. Clients continue to be focused on transforming their operations to improve effectiveness and save costs. Growth in outsourcing was driven by higher volumes, scope and geographic expansions and new work at existing clients, as well as services for new clients. Compared to   fiscal 2011  , we provided a greater proportion of application outsourcing through use of lower-cost resources in our Global Delivery Network. 
  As we are a global company, our revenues are denominated in multiple currencies and may be significantly affected by currency exchange-rate fluctuations. If the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, resulting in favorable currency translation, our revenues and revenue growth in U.S. dollars may be higher. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, resulting in unfavorable currency translation, our revenues and revenue growth in U.S. dollars may be lower. When compared to   fiscal 2011  , the U.S. dollar strengthened against many currencies during   fiscal 2012  . This resulted in unfavorable currency translation and U.S. dollar revenue results that were approximately   7%   and   2%   lower than our revenue results in local currency for the fourth quarter and   fiscal 2012  , respectively.  
  The primary categories of operating expenses include cost of services, sales and marketing and general and administrative costs. Cost of services is primarily driven by the cost of client-service personnel, which consists mainly of compensation, subcontractor and other personnel costs, and non-payroll outsourcing costs. Cost of services as a percentage of revenues is driven by the prices we obtain for our solutions and services, the utilization of our client-service personnel and the level of non-payroll costs associated with new outsourcing contracts. Utilization primarily represents the percentage of our consulting professionals  time spent on billable work. Utilization for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012   was approximately   87%  , flat with the   third quarter of fiscal 2012  , and within our target range. This level of utilization reflects continued strong demand for resources in our Global Delivery Network and in most countries. We continue to hire to meet current and projected future demand. 
  We proactively plan and manage the size and composition of our workforce and take actions as needed to address changes in the anticipated demand for our services, given that payroll costs are the most significant portion of our operating expenses. Based on current and projected future demand, we have increased our headcount, the majority of which serve our clients, to approximately   257,000   as of   August 31, 2012  , compared with approximately   249,000   as of   May 31, 2012   and   236,000   as of   August 31, 2011  . The year-over-year increase in our headcount reflects an overall increase in demand for our services, including those delivered through our Global Delivery Network in lower-cost locations. Annualized attrition, excluding involuntary terminations, for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012   was   12%  , down from   13%   in the   third quarter of fiscal 2012   and   14%   in the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2011  . We evaluate voluntary attrition, adjust levels of new hiring and use involuntary terminations as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with increases or decreases in client demand. In addition, we adjust compensation in certain skill sets and geographies in order to attract and retain appropriate numbers of qualified employees, and we may need to continue to adjust compensation in the future. For the majority of our personnel, compensation increases for fiscal 2012 became effective September 1, 2011. As in prior fiscal years, we strive to adjust pricing and/or the mix of resources to reduce the impact of compensation increases on our gross margin. Our ability to grow our revenues and increase our margins could be adversely affected if we are unable to: keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with changes in the types or amounts of services clients are demanding, such as the increase in demand for various outsourcing services or a decrease in demand due to U.S. government spending reductions; deploy our employees globally on a timely basis; manage attrition; recover increases in compensation; and/or effectively assimilate and utilize new employees. 
  Gross margin (Net revenues less Cost of services before reimbursable expenses as a percentage of Net revenues) for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012   was   32.9%  , compared with   33.1%   for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2011  . Gross margin for   fiscal 2012   was   32.3%  , compared with   32.9%   for   fiscal 2011  . Gross margin for   fiscal 2012   was lower than for   fiscal 2011  , principally due to higher payroll costs as a percentage of net revenues, including costs associated with integration of acquisitions and investments in offerings, partially offset by higher contract profitability. 
  Sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues were   19.1%   for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012  , compared with   19.3%   for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2011  . Sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues were   18.4%   for   fiscal 2012  , compared with   19.3%   for   fiscal 2011  . Sales and marketing costs are driven primarily by compensation costs for business-development activities, investment in offerings, and marketing- and advertising-related activities. General and administrative costs primarily include costs for non-client-facing personnel, information systems and office space. We continuously monitor these costs and implement cost-management actions, as appropriate. These actions include performing a greater proportion of general and administrative activities in lower-cost locations. For   fiscal 2012   compared to   fiscal 2011  , sales and marketing costs as a percentage of net revenues decreased 20 basis points, while general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues decreased 60 basis points. These decreases were principally due to growth of these costs at a rate lower than that of net revenues. In addition, during   fiscal 2011  , we recorded a provision for litigation matters for $75 million, or 0.3% of net revenues, which was partially offset by a reduction in the allowance for client receivables and  
    31 

     Table of Contents     

   unbilled services. Our margins could be adversely affected if our cost-management actions are not sufficient to maintain sales and marketing and general and administrative costs at or below current levels as a percentage of net revenues. 
  Operating income for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012   was   $940 million  , compared with   $923 million   for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2011  . Operating income for   fiscal 2012   was   $3,872 million  , compared with   $3,470 million   for   fiscal 2011  . Operating margin (Operating income as a percentage of Net revenues) for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012   was   13.8%  , flat with the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2011  . Operating margin for   fiscal 2012   was   13.9%  , compared with   13.6%   for   fiscal 2011  . 
  Our Operating income and Earnings per share are also affected by currency exchange-rate fluctuations on revenues and costs. Most of our costs are incurred in the same currency as the related net revenues. Where practical, we also seek to manage foreign currency exposure for costs not incurred in the same currency as the related net revenues, such as the cost of our Global Delivery Network, by using currency protection provisions in our customer contracts and through our hedging programs. We seek to manage our costs taking into consideration the residual positive and negative effects of changes in foreign exchange rates on those costs. For more information on our hedging programs, see Note 7 (Derivative Financial Instruments) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    Bookings and Backlog 
  New contract bookings for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2012   were   $9.21 billion  , with consulting bookings of   $4.27 billion   and outsourcing bookings of   $4.94 billion  . New contract bookings for   fiscal 2012   were   $32.23 billion  , with consulting bookings of   $16.61 billion   and outsourcing bookings of   $15.62 billion  . 
  We provide information regarding our new contract bookings because we believe doing so provides useful trend information regarding changes in the volume of our new business over time. However, new bookings can vary significantly quarter to quarter depending in part on the timing of the signing of a small number of large outsourcing contracts. Clients continue to seek flexibility by using a phased approach to contracting work. Information regarding our new bookings is not comparable to, nor should it be substituted for, an analysis of our revenues over time. There are no third-party standards or requirements governing the calculation of bookings. New contract bookings involve estimates and judgments regarding new contracts as well as renewals, extensions and changes to existing contracts. We do not update our new bookings for material subsequent terminations or reductions related to bookings originally recorded in prior fiscal years. New contract bookings are recorded using then-existing foreign currency exchange rates and are not subsequently adjusted for foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. 
  The majority of our contracts are terminable by the client on short notice, and some without notice. Accordingly, we do not believe it is appropriate to characterize bookings attributable to these contracts as backlog. Normally, if a client terminates a project, the client remains obligated to pay for commitments we have made to third parties in connection with the project, services performed and reimbursable expenses incurred by us through the date of termination. 
    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
  The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. We continually evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions based on available information and experience. Because the use of estimates is inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain of our accounting policies require higher degrees of judgment than others in their application. These include certain aspects of accounting for revenue recognition and income taxes. 
  Revenue Recognition 
  Our contracts have different terms based on the scope, deliverables and complexity of the engagement, the terms of which frequently require us to make judgments and estimates in recognizing revenues. We have many types of contracts, including time-and-materials contracts, fixed-price contracts and contracts with features of both of these contract types. In addition, some contracts include incentives related to costs incurred, benefits produced or adherence to schedules that may increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on such contracts. We conduct rigorous reviews prior to signing such contracts to evaluate whether these incentives are reasonably achievable. 
  We recognize revenues from technology integration consulting contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, which involves calculating the percentage of services provided during the reporting period compared with the total estimated services to be provided over the duration of the contract. Our contracts for technology integration consulting services generally span six months to two years. Estimated revenues used in applying the percentage-of-completion method include estimated incentives for which achievement of defined goals is deemed probable. This method is followed where reasonably dependable estimates of revenues and costs can be made. Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are continuously monitored during the term of the contract, and recorded revenues and estimated costs are subject to revision as the contract progresses. Such revisions may result in increases or decreases to revenues and income and are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements  
    32 

     Table of Contents     

   in the periods in which they are first identified. If our estimates indicate that a contract loss will occur, a loss provision is recorded in the period in which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which the estimated total direct and indirect costs of the contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract and are included in Cost of services and classified in Other accrued liabilities. 
  Revenues from contracts for non-technology integration consulting services with fees based on time and materials or cost-plus are recognized as the services are performed and amounts are earned. We consider amounts to be earned once evidence of an arrangement has been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In such contracts, our efforts, measured by time incurred, typically are provided in less than a year and represent the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. For non-technology integration consulting contracts with fixed fees, we recognize revenues as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, provided the billable amounts are not contingent, are consistent with the services delivered, and are earned. Contingent or incentive revenues relating to non-technology integration consulting contracts are recognized when the contingency is satisfied and we conclude the amounts are earned. 
  Outsourcing contracts typically span several years and involve complex delivery, often through multiple workforces in different countries. In a number of these arrangements, we hire client employees and become responsible for certain client obligations. Revenues are recognized on outsourcing contracts as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, unless the amounts are billed in advance of performance of services, in which case revenues are recognized when the services are performed and amounts are earned. Revenues from time-and-materials or cost-plus contracts are recognized as the services are performed. In such contracts, our effort, measured by time incurred, represents the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as transactions are processed based on objective measures of output. Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognized on a straight-line basis, unless revenues are earned and obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. Outsourcing contracts can also include incentive payments for benefits delivered to clients. Revenues relating to such incentive payments are recorded when the contingency is satisfied and we conclude the amounts are earned. We continuously review and reassess our estimates of contract profitability. Circumstances that potentially affect profitability over the life of the contract include decreases in volumes of transactions or other inputs/outputs on which we are paid, failure to deliver agreed benefits, variances from planned internal/external costs to deliver our services, and other factors affecting revenues and costs. 
  Costs related to delivering outsourcing services are expensed as incurred, with the exception of certain transition costs related to the set-up of processes, personnel and systems, which are deferred during the transition period and expensed evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. The deferred costs are specific internal costs or incremental external costs directly related to transition or set-up activities necessary to enable the outsourced services. Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment losses are recorded when projected remaining undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets. Amounts billable to the client for transition or set-up activities are deferred and recognized as revenue evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. Contract acquisition and origination costs are expensed as incurred.   
  We enter into contracts that may consist of multiple elements. These contracts may include any combination of technology integration consulting services, non-technology integration consulting services or outsourcing services described above. Revenues for contracts with multiple elements are allocated based on the lesser of the element s relative selling price or the amount that is not contingent on future delivery of another element. The selling price of each element is determined by obtaining the vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) of fair value of each element. VSOE of fair value is based on the price charged when the element is sold separately by the Company on a regular basis and not as part of a contract with multiple elements. If the amount of non-contingent revenues allocated to a delivered element accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting is less than the costs to deliver such services, then such costs are deferred and recognized in future periods when the revenues become non-contingent. Revenues are recognized in accordance with our accounting policies for the separate elements when the services have value on a stand-alone basis, selling price of the separate elements exists and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in our control. While determining fair value and identifying separate elements require judgment, generally fair value and the separate elements are readily identifiable as we also sell those elements unaccompanied by other elements. 
  Revenues recognized in excess of billings are recorded as Unbilled services. Billings in excess of revenues recognized are recorded as Deferred revenues until revenue recognition criteria are met. Client prepayments (even if nonrefundable) are deferred and recognized over future periods as services are delivered or performed. 
    33 

     Table of Contents     

   Our consulting revenues are affected by the number of work days in a fiscal quarter, which in turn is affected by the level of vacation days and holidays. Consequently, since our first and third quarters typically have approximately 5-10% more work days than our second and fourth quarters, our consulting revenues are typically higher in our first and third quarters than in our second and fourth quarters. 
  Net revenues include the margin earned on computer hardware and software resale contracts, as well as revenues from alliance agreements, neither of which is material to us. Reimbursements include billings for travel and other out-of-pocket expenses and third-party costs, such as the cost of hardware and software resales. In addition, Reimbursements may include allocations from gross billings to record an amount equivalent to reimbursable costs, where billings do not specifically identify reimbursable expenses. We report revenues net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions. 
  Income Taxes 
  Determining the consolidated provision for income tax expense, income tax liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities involves judgment. Deferred tax assets and liabilities, measured using enacted tax rates, are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax and financial statement bases of assets and liabilities. As a global company, we calculate and provide for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This involves estimating current tax exposures in each jurisdiction as well as making judgments regarding the recoverability of deferred tax assets. Tax exposures can involve complex issues and may require an extended period to resolve. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjust the valuation allowances accordingly. Factors considered in making this determination include the period of expiration of the tax asset, planned use of the tax asset, tax planning strategies and historical and projected taxable income as well as tax liabilities for the tax jurisdiction in which the tax asset is located. Valuation allowances will be subject to change in each future reporting period as a result of changes in one or more of these factors. Changes in the geographic mix or estimated level of annual income before taxes can affect the overall effective tax rate. 
  We apply an estimated annual effective tax rate to our quarterly operating results to determine the interim provision for income tax expense. In accordance with FASB guidance on uncertainty in income taxes, a change in judgment that impacts the measurement of a tax position taken in a prior year is recognized as a discrete item in the interim period in which the change occurs. In the event there is a significant unusual or infrequent item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is recorded in the interim period in which it occurs. 
  No taxes have been provided on undistributed foreign earnings that are planned to be indefinitely reinvested. If future events, including material changes in estimates of cash, working capital and long-term investment requirements, necessitate that these earnings be distributed, an additional provision for withholding taxes may apply, which could materially affect our future effective tax rate. We currently do not foresee any event that would require us to distribute these earnings. 
  As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by various taxing authorities, and sometimes these audits result in proposed assessments where the ultimate resolution may result in us owing additional taxes. We establish tax liabilities or reduce tax assets for uncertain tax positions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are appropriate and supportable under local tax law, we believe we may not succeed in realizing the tax benefit of certain positions if challenged. In evaluating a tax position, we determine whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Our estimate of the ultimate tax liability contains assumptions based on past experiences, judgments about potential actions by taxing jurisdictions as well as judgments about the likely outcome of issues that have been raised by taxing jurisdictions. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions each quarter and adjust the related tax liabilities or assets in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit or the expiration of a statute of limitations. We believe the estimates and assumptions used to support our evaluation of uncertain tax positions are reasonable. However, final determinations of prior-year tax liabilities, either by settlement with tax authorities or expiration of statutes of limitations, could be materially different from estimates reflected in assets and liabilities and historical income tax provisions. The outcome of these final determinations could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period in which that determination is made. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we have adequately accounted for uncertain tax positions. 
    Revenues by Segment/Operating Group 
  Our five reportable operating segments are our operating groups, which are Communications, Media   Technology, Financial Services, Health   Public Service, Products and Resources. Operating groups are managed on the basis of net revenues because our management believes net revenues are a better indicator of operating group performance than revenues. In addition to reporting net revenues by operating group, we also report net revenues by two types of work: consulting and outsourcing, which represent the services sold by our operating groups. Consulting net revenues, which include management and technology consulting and systems integration, reflect a finite, distinct project or set of projects with a defined outcome and typically a defined set of specific  
    34 

     Table of Contents     

   deliverables. Outsourcing net revenues typically reflect ongoing, repeatable services or capabilities provided to transition, run and/or manage operations of client systems or business functions. 
  From time to time, our operating groups work together to sell and implement certain contracts. The resulting revenues and costs from these contracts may be apportioned among the participating operating groups. Generally, operating expenses for each operating group have similar characteristics and are subject to the same factors, pressures and challenges. However, the economic environment and its effects on the industries served by our operating groups affect revenues and operating expenses within our operating groups to differing degrees. The mix between consulting and outsourcing is not uniform among our operating groups. Local currency fluctuations also tend to affect our operating groups differently, depending on the geographic concentrations and locations of their businesses. 
  While we provide discussion about our results of operations below, we cannot measure how much of our revenue growth in a particular period is attributable to changes in price or volume. Management does not track standard measures of unit or rate volume. Instead, our measures of volume and price are extremely complex, as each of our services contracts is unique, reflecting a customized mix of specific services that does not fit into standard comparability measurements. Pricing for our services is a function of the nature of each service to be provided, the skills required and outcome sought, as well as estimated cost, risk, contract terms and other factors. 
    Results of Operations for Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011 
  Net revenues (by operating group, geographic region and type of work) and reimbursements were as follows: 

_______________  
  n/m = not meaningful 
           (1) 
    On September 1, 2011, the Company renamed the Communications   High Tech operating group to Communications, Media   Technology. No amounts have been reclassified in any period in connection with this name change. 
              (2) 
    May not total due to rounding. 
              (3) 
    EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa. 
       35 

     Table of Contents     

   We conduct business in the following countries that individually comprised 10% or more of consolidated net revenues within fiscal   2012, 2011 or 2010  : 

Net Revenues 
  Revenue growth in local currency was very strong in outsourcing during   fiscal 2012  . All five of our operating groups experienced double-digit year-over-year outsourcing revenue growth in local currency during   fiscal 2012  . Consulting revenue growth in local currency moderated significantly during the second half of   fiscal 2012   compared to the first half of   fiscal 2012  . While Health   Public Service experienced strong growth in consulting revenues in local currency during   fiscal 2012  , year-over-year consulting revenue growth in local currency either moderated or declined for all other operating groups in the second half of   fiscal 2012  . 
  The following net revenues commentary discusses local currency net revenue changes for   fiscal 2012   compared to   fiscal 2011  : 
  Operating Groups 
             
    Communications, Media   Technology net revenues increased   11%   in local currency. Outsourcing revenues reflected significant growth, led by Electronics   High Tech in EMEA, principally due to a significant short-term increase from one contract. We also experienced outsourcing growth in Communications across all geographic regions. Consulting revenues declined slightly, with growth in the first half of fiscal 2012 offset by contraction during the second half of the fiscal year. For fiscal 2012, consulting revenues reflected a decline in Communications in EMEA and Asia Pacific, partially offset by growth in Media   Entertainment in Americas and Electronics   High Tech in Asia Pacific. Some of our clients, primarily in Communications, continued to exercise caution by reducing and/or deferring their investment in consulting, which had a negative impact on our consulting revenues. We expect Communications, Media   Technology net revenues to decline year-over-year in the near term. 
                
    Financial Services net revenues increased   11%   in local currency. Outsourcing revenues reflected very significant growth, driven by all industry groups in Americas, including the impact of an acquisition in Banking. We also experienced outsourcing growth across all industry groups in Asia Pacific and Capital Markets in EMEA. Consulting revenues reflected modest growth, driven by significant growth in Insurance across all geographic regions, including the impact of an acquisition. This growth was partially offset by declines in Banking in EMEA and Americas and Capital Markets in EMEA. The uncertainty in the banking and capital markets industries impacted our consulting revenue growth during fiscal 2012 and we expect this trend to continue in the near term. 
                
    Health   Public Service net revenues increased   11%   in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected strong growth, led by Health across all geographic regions and Public Service in Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues reflected strong growth, driven by Health across all geographic regions and Public Service in EMEA and Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues during fiscal 2011 reflected revenues recognized upon favorable resolution of billing holdbacks on certain contracts with United States government agencies. The global uncertainty and challenges in the public sector continue to have an impact on demand in our public service business. This impact may increase if U.S. government spending reductions are implemented. 
                
    Products net revenues increased   13%   in local currency. Consulting revenues increased, driven primarily by growth across all industry groups in Americas and most industry groups in Asia Pacific. By industry group, growth was led by Retail and Industrial Equipment. Outsourcing revenues reflected very strong growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and most industry groups, led by Life Sciences, Air, Freight   Travel Services and Retail. 
                
    Resources net revenues increased   10%   in local currency. Consulting revenues increased, driven by Energy across all geographic regions and Natural Resources in Asia Pacific and EMEA, partially offset by a decline in Natural Resources in Americas. Outsourcing revenues reflected strong growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and all industry groups, led by Energy and Natural Resources. 
       36 

     Table of Contents     

   Geographic Regions 
             
    Americas net revenues increased   13%   in local currency, led by the United States and Brazil. In general, revenue growth moderated across Americas in the second half of fiscal 2012 compared to the first half of fiscal 2012. 
                
    EMEA net revenues increased   8%   in local currency, driven by growth in Finland, the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands and South Africa. In general, revenue growth moderated across EMEA in the second half of fiscal 2012 compared to the first half of fiscal 2012. 
                
    Asia Pacific net revenues increased   18%   in local currency, driven by Australia, Japan, China, Singapore, South Korea and India. 
     Operating Expenses 
  Operating expenses for   fiscal 2012   were   $25,906 million  , an increase of   $2,024 million  , or   8%  , over   fiscal 2011  , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to   87.0%   from   87.3%   during this period. Operating expenses before reimbursable expenses for   fiscal 2012   were   $23,991 million  , an increase of   $1,954 million  , or   9%  , over   fiscal 2011  , and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to   86.1%   from   86.4%   during this period. 
  Cost of Services 
  Cost of services for   fiscal 2012   was   $20,790 million  , an increase of   $1,824 million  , or   10%  , over   fiscal 2011  , and increased as a percentage of revenues to   69.8%   from   69.3%   during this period. Cost of services before reimbursable expenses for   fiscal 2012   was   $18,875 million  , an increase of   $1,754 million  , or   10%  , over   fiscal 2011  , and increased as a percentage of net revenues to   67.7%   from   67.1%   during this period. Gross margin for   fiscal 2012   decreased to   32.3%   from   32.9%   during this period. Gross margin for   fiscal 2012   was lower than for   fiscal 2011  , principally due to higher payroll costs as a percentage of net revenues, including costs associated with investments in offerings and acquisitions, partially offset by higher contract profitability. 
  Sales and Marketing 
  Sales and marketing expense for   fiscal 2012   was   $3,303 million  , an increase of   $209 million  , or   7%  , over   fiscal 2011  , and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to   11.9%   from   12.1%   during this period. The decrease as a percentage of net revenues was due to growth of business development costs at a rate lower than that of net revenues. 
  General and Administrative Costs 
  General and administrative costs for   fiscal 2012   were   $1,811 million  , a decrease of   $9 million  , or   1%  , from   fiscal 2011  , and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to   6.5%   from   7.1%   during this period. The decrease as a percentage of net revenues was due to management of these costs at a growth rate lower than that of net revenues. In addition, during fiscal 2011, we recorded a provision for litigation matters for $75 million, or 0.3% of net revenues, which was partially offset by a reduction in the allowance for client receivables and unbilled services. 
    
  Operating Income and Operating Margin 
  Operating income for   fiscal 2012   was   $3,872 million  , an increase of   $401 million  , or   12%  , over   fiscal 2011  , and increased as a percentage of net revenues to   13.9%   from   13.6%   during this period. Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    May not total due to rounding. 
              (2) 
    On September 1, 2011, the Company renamed the Communications   High Tech operating group to Communications, Media   Technology. No amounts have been reclassified in any period in connection with this name change. 
       37 

     Table of Contents     

   During   fiscal 2012  , the results of each operating group benefited from our management of general and administrative costs at a growth rate lower than that of net revenues. In addition, during fiscal 2011, each operating group recorded a portion of the $75 million provision for litigation matters, partially offset by a reduction in the allowance for client receivables and unbilled services. The commentary below provides additional insight into operating group performance and operating margin for   fiscal 2012  , compared with   fiscal 2011  , exclusive of these impacts. 
             
    Communications, Media   Technology operating income increased, primarily due to outsourcing revenue growth, principally related to a significant short-term increase from one contract. 
                
    Financial Services operating income decreased, primarily due to a lower proportion of high margin consulting work, costs related to recent acquisitions and higher sales and marketing costs as a percentage of net revenues, partially offset by strong outsourcing revenue growth. 
                
    Health   Public Service operating income increased, primarily due to revenue growth and lower sales and marketing costs as a percentage of net revenues, partially offset by the negative impact of delivery inefficiencies on a few contracts. Health   Public Service operating margin was impacted by administrative and compliance costs associated with our U.S. Federal practice, and we expect this trend to continue. Health   Public Service profitability could also be impacted if U.S. government spending reductions are implemented. 
                
    Products operating income increased, primarily due to revenue growth and improved consulting and outsourcing contract profitability. 
                
    Resources operating income increased, primarily due to strong revenue growth. 
     Interest Income 
  Interest income for   fiscal 2012   was   $43 million  , an increase of   $1 million  , or   4%  , over   fiscal 2011  . The increase was primarily due to higher cash balances. 
    
  Other Income, net 
  Other income, net for   fiscal 2012   was   $6 million  , a decrease of   $11 million   from   fiscal 2011  . The change was driven primarily by lower net foreign exchange gains during   fiscal 2012  . 
  Provision for Income Taxes 
  The effective tax rate for   fiscal 2012   was   27.6%  , compared with   27.3%   for   fiscal 2011  . The effective tax rate in   fiscal 2012   included higher expenses for increases in tax reserves and changes in our geographic mix of income, partially offset by higher benefits related to final determinations of prior year tax liabilities. 
  Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests eliminates the income earned or expense incurred attributable to the equity interest that some of our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees have in our Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiaries. See  Business Organizational Structure.  The resulting Net income attributable to Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the shareholders of Accenture plc. Since January 2002, noncontrolling interests has also included immaterial amounts primarily attributable to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary. 
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for   fiscal 2012   was   $271 million  , a decrease of   $4 million  , or   2%  , from   fiscal 2011  . The decrease was due to a reduction in the Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares average noncontrolling ownership interest to 9% for   fiscal 2012   from 10% for   fiscal 2011  , partially offset by an increase in Net income of   $272 million  . 
  Earnings Per Share 
  Diluted earnings per share were   $3.84   for   fiscal 2012  , compared with   $3.39   for   fiscal 2011  . The $0.45 increase in our earnings per share was due to increases of $0.40 from higher revenues and operating results and $0.08 from lower weighted average shares outstanding. These increases were partially offset by decreases of $0.02 from a higher effective tax rate and $0.01 from lower non-operating income, compared with   fiscal 2011  . Diluted earnings per share amounts have been restated to reflect the impact of the issuance of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units in connection with the fiscal 2012 payment of cash dividends. This restatement resulted in a one cent decrease in diluted earnings per share from $3.40 to $3.39 for fiscal 2011. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 2 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    38 

       Table of Contents     

   Results of Operations for Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 
  Net revenues (by operating group, geographic region and type of work) and reimbursements were as follows: 

_______________  
  n/m = not meaningful 
           (1) 
    On September 1, 2011, the Company renamed the Communications   High Tech operating group to Communications, Media   Technology. No amounts have been reclassified in any period in connection with this name change. 
              (2) 
    May not total due to rounding. 
       
  Net Revenues 
  The following net revenues commentary discusses local currency net revenue changes for fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010: 
  Operating Groups 
             
    Communications, Media   Technology net revenues increased 14% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected strong growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and industry groups, with the exception of Electronics   High Tech in Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues reflected very strong growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and industry groups, with the exception of Electronics   High Tech in EMEA. 
                
    Financial Services net revenues increased 18% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected very strong growth, driven by growth in Banking and Insurance in EMEA and all industry groups in Americas, partially offset by a decline in Banking in Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues reflected significant growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and industry groups, led by Americas and EMEA. 
                
    Health   Public Service net revenues increased 7% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected growth in Americas and Asia Pacific, with significant growth in Health, partially offset by a decline in Public Service in EMEA. The increase in consulting revenues was significantly impacted by a delivery inefficiency on a consulting contract in Public Service in Americas in fiscal 2010, which negatively affected revenues in that period. Outsourcing revenues increased due to growth in Americas, partially offset by a decrease in Public Service in EMEA and Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues  
       39 

       Table of Contents     

   also reflected revenues recognized upon favorable resolution of billing holdbacks on certain contracts with United States government agencies. In addition, the uncertainty and challenges in the public sector, particularly in the United States, the United Kingdom and several other countries, continued to have a significant impact on demand in our public service business. This had a negative impact on our revenues and new contract bookings in our public service business during fiscal 2011. 
             
    Products net revenues increased 16% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected significant growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and industry groups, led by Consumer Goods   Services and Automotive. Outsourcing revenues increased, driven by growth across all geographic regions and most industry groups, led by Retail in Americas and Asia Pacific and Air, Freight   Travel Services in Americas and EMEA. 
                
    Resources net revenues increased 21% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected very significant growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and industry groups, led by Natural Resources and Energy. Outsourcing revenues increased, driven by growth in Energy and Natural Resources in Americas and Utilities and Energy in EMEA. Lower client demand for outsourcing services resulted in moderation of outsourcing revenue growth in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 and a shift in the mix of work towards consulting.  
     Geographic Regions 
             
    Americas net revenues increased 17% in local currency, led by the United States, Brazil and Canada. 
                
    EMEA net revenues increased 11% in local currency, driven by growth in local currency in most countries, led by the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, South Africa and Switzerland. 
                
    Asia Pacific net revenues increased 23% in local currency, led by Japan, Australia, Singapore, China and India. 
     Operating Expenses 
  Operating expenses for fiscal 2011 were $23,882 million, an increase of $3,703 million, or 18%, over fiscal 2010, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 87.3% from 87.4% during this period. Operating expenses before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2011 were $22,037 million, an increase of $3,401 million, or 18%, over fiscal 2010, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 86.4% from 86.5% during this period. 
  Cost of Services 
  Cost of services for fiscal 2011 was $18,966 million, an increase of $3,123 million, or 20%, over fiscal 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 69.3% from 68.6% during this period. Cost of services before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2011 was $17,120 million, an increase of $2,820 million, or 20%, over fiscal 2010, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 67.1% from 66.4% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2011 decreased to 32.9% from 33.6% during this period. Our contract profitability for fiscal 2011 was lower than the same period in fiscal 2010, as we continued our efforts to absorb higher annual compensation increases and subcontractor costs with improved pricing and a more efficient resource mix. Gross margin also included the impact of higher recruiting and training costs from the addition of a large number of new employees to meet demand. 
  Sales and Marketing 
  Sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2011 was $3,094 million, an increase of $436 million, or 16%, over fiscal 2010, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 12.1% from 12.3% during this period. 
  General and Administrative Costs 
  General and administrative costs for fiscal 2011 were $1,820 million, an increase of $152 million, or 9%, over fiscal 2010, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 7.1% from 7.7% during this period. The decrease as a percentage of net revenues was primarily due to management of these costs at a growth rate lower than that of net revenues, as well as a reduction in the allowance for client receivables and unbilled services due to better than expected bad debt experience, partially offset by a provision for litigation matters of $75 million. 
    
    40 

       Table of Contents     

   Operating Income and Operating Margin 
  Operating income for fiscal 2011 was $3,470 million, an increase of $556 million, or 19%, over fiscal 2010, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 13.6% from 13.5% during this period. Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows: 

_______________  
           (1)   
    May not total due to rounding. 
              (2) 
    On September 1, 2011, the Company renamed the Communications   High Tech operating group to Communications, Media   Technology. No amounts have been reclassified in any period in connection with this name change. 
     During fiscal 2011, the results of each operating group benefited from our management of general and administrative costs at a growth rate lower than that of our net revenues, as well as a reduction in the bad debt reserve. In addition, in fiscal 2011 each operating group experienced higher recruiting and training costs from the addition of a large number of new employees to meet demand and recorded a portion of the $75 million provision for litigation matters. The commentary below provides additional insight into operating group performance and operating margin for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010, exclusive of these impacts. 
             
    Communications   High Tech operating income increased, primarily due to revenue growth, partially offset by lower contract profitability. 
                
    Financial Services operating income increased, primarily due to very strong revenue growth, partially offset by lower outsourcing contract profitability. 
                
    Health   Public Service operating income increased due to revenue growth, including revenues recognized upon favorable resolution of billing holdbacks on certain contracts with United States government agencies, partially offset by lower outsourcing contract profitability. Fiscal 2010 operating income included the negative impact of inefficient delivery on a few consulting contracts in Public Service. 
                
    Products operating income increased, primarily driven by revenue growth, partially offset by lower contract profitability. Products operating results in both periods were also impacted by expected lower margins on certain contracts. 
                
    Resources operating income increased, primarily driven by significant consulting revenue growth. 
     Interest Income 
  Interest income for fiscal 2011 was $41 million, an increase of $11 million, or 37%, over fiscal 2010. The increase was primarily due to higher interest rates and cash balances. 
  Other Income (Expense), net 
  Other income (expense), net for fiscal 2011 was $17 million, an increase of $32 million over fiscal 2010. The change was driven by net foreign exchange gains during fiscal 2011, compared with net foreign exchange losses during fiscal 2010. 
  Provision for Income Taxes 
  The effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was 27.3%, compared with 29.3% for fiscal 2010. The effective tax rate was lower in fiscal 2011 due to a number of factors that impacted our geographic mix of income, partially offset by a net increase in reserves related to ongoing tax audits. 
    41 

       Table of Contents     

   Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests eliminates the income earned or expense incurred attributable to the equity interest that some of our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees have in our Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiaries. See  Business Organizational Structure.  The resulting Net income attributable to Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the shareholders of Accenture plc. Since January 2002, noncontrolling interests has also included immaterial amounts primarily attributable to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary. 
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for fiscal 2011 was $276 million, a decrease of $4 million, or 2%, from fiscal 2010. The decrease was due to a reduction in the Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares average noncontrolling ownership interest to 10% for fiscal 2011 from 13% for fiscal 2010, partially offset by an increase in Net income of $493 million. 
  Earnings Per Share 
  Diluted earnings per share were $3.39 for fiscal 2011, compared with $2.66 for fiscal 2010. The $0.73 increase in our earnings per share was due to increases of $0.42 from higher revenues and operating results in local currency, $0.10 from lower weighted average shares outstanding, $0.09 from a lower effective tax rate, $0.08 from favorable foreign currency exchange rates and $0.04 from higher non-operating income, compared with fiscal 2010. Diluted earnings per share amounts have been restated to reflect the impact of the issuance of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units in connection with the fiscal 2012 payment of cash dividends. This restatement resulted in a one cent decrease in diluted earnings per share from $3.40 to $3.39 for fiscal 2011. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 2 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources 
  Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, available cash reserves and debt capacity available under various credit facilities. In addition, we could raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings. We may use our available or additional funds to, among other things: 
             
    facilitate purchases, redemptions and exchanges of shares and pay dividends; 
                
    acquire complementary businesses or technologies; 
                
    take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion; or 
                
    develop new services and solutions. 
     As of   August 31, 2012  , cash and cash equivalents was   $6.6 billion  , compared with   $5.7 billion   as of   August 31, 2011  . 
  Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in our Consolidated Cash Flows Statements, are summarized in the following table: 

_______________   
           (1) 
    May not total due to rounding. 
     Operating activities:      The   $815 million   increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to higher net income and changes in operating assets and liabilities, including higher collections on net client balances (receivables from clients, current and non-current unbilled services and deferred revenues). 
  Investing activities:      The   $168 million   decrease in cash used was primarily due to decreased spending on business acquisitions. For additional information, see Note 6 (Business Combinations and Goodwill) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
  Financing activities:      The   $437 million   increase in cash used was primarily due to an increase in cash dividends paid. For additional information, see Note 13 (Material Transactions Affecting Shareholders  Equity) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    42 

     Table of Contents     

   We believe that our available cash balances and the cash flows expected to be generated from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our current and planned working capital and investment needs for the next twelve months, including a discretionary contribution to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans that is expected to be funded during the first half of fiscal 2013. We also believe that our longer-term working capital and other general corporate funding requirements will be satisfied through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from our borrowing facilities and future financial market activities. 
    
  Borrowing Facilities 
  As of   August 31, 2012  , we had the following borrowing facilities, including the issuance of letters of credit, to support general working capital purposes: 
                               
    Facility Amount 
      
    Borrowings Under Facilities 
        
    (in millions of U.S. dollars) 
      Syndicated loan facility (1) 
    $ 
    1,000 

$ 

Separate, uncommitted, unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities (2) 
    518 

Local guaranteed and non-guaranteed lines of credit (3) 
    125 

Total 
    $ 
    1,643 

$ 

_______________  
           (1) 
    On October 31, 2011, we replaced our $1.2 billion syndicated loan facility maturing on July 31, 2012 with a $1.0 billion syndicated loan facility maturing on October 31, 2016. This facility provides unsecured, revolving borrowing capacity for general working capital purposes, including the issuance of letters of credit. Financing is provided under this facility at the prime rate or at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread. This facility requires us to: (1) limit liens placed on our assets to (a) liens incurred in the ordinary course of business (subject to certain qualifications) and (b) other liens securing obligations not to exceed 30% of our consolidated assets; and (2) maintain a debt-to-cash-flow ratio not exceeding 1.75 to 1.00. We continue to be in compliance with relevant covenant terms. The facility is subject to annual commitment fees. As of   August 31, 2012  , we had no borrowings under the facility. As of   August 31, 2011  , we had no borrowings under the prior facility. 
              (2) 
    We maintain separate, uncommitted and unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities. These facilities provide local-currency financing for the majority of our operations. Interest rate terms on the revolving facilities are at market rates prevailing in the relevant local markets. As of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , we had no borrowings under these facilities. 
              (3) 
    We also maintain local guaranteed and non-guaranteed lines of credit for those locations that cannot access our global facilities. As of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , we had no borrowings under these various facilities. 
     Under the borrowing facilities described above, we had an aggregate of   $164 million   and   $178 million   of letters of credit outstanding as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , respectively. In addition, we had total outstanding debt of   $0.03 million   and   $4.42 million   as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , respectively. 
    43 

     Table of Contents     

   Share Purchases and Redemptions 
  The Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized funding for our publicly announced open-market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares held by our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees. As of   August 31, 2012  , our aggregate available authorization was   $4,179 million   for our publicly announced open-market share purchase and these other share purchase programs. 
  Our share purchase activity during fiscal   2012   was as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    We conduct a publicly announced, open-market share purchase program for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. These shares are held as treasury shares by Accenture plc and may be utilized to provide for select employee benefits, such as equity awards to our employees. 
              (2) 
    During fiscal   2012  , as authorized under our various employee equity share plans, we acquired Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares primarily via share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection with the delivery of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under those plans. These purchases of shares in connection with employee share plans do not affect our aggregate available authorization for our publicly announced open-market share purchase and the other share purchase programs. 
     We intend to continue to use a significant portion of cash generated from operations for share repurchases during fiscal   2013  . The number of shares ultimately repurchased under our open-market share purchase program may vary depending on numerous factors, including, without limitation, share price and other market conditions, our ongoing capital allocation planning, the levels of cash and debt balances, other demands for cash, such as acquisition activity, general economic and/or business conditions, and board and management discretion. Additionally, as these factors may change over the course of the year, the amount of share repurchase activity during any particular period cannot be predicted and may fluctuate from time to time. Share repurchases may be made from time to time through open-market purchases, in respect of purchases and redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares, through the use of Rule 10b5-1 plans and/or by other means. The repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time, without notice. 
  Other Share Redemptions 
  During fiscal   2012  , we issued   4,622,450   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares upon redemptions of an equivalent number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares pursuant to our registration statement on Form S-3 (the  registration statement ). The registration statement allows us, at our option, to issue freely tradable Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares in lieu of cash upon redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares held by senior executives, former executives and their permitted transferees. 
    Subsequent Development 
  On   September 24, 2012  , the Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of   $0.81   per share on our Class A ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on   October 12, 2012  . Accenture plc will cause Accenture SCA  to declare a semi-annual cash dividend of   $0.81   per share on its Class I common shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on   October 9, 2012  . Both dividends are payable on   November 15, 2012  . 
    44 

       Table of Contents     

   Obligations and Commitments 
  As of   August 31, 2012  , we had the following obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts, contractual obligations and commercial commitments: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    The liability related to unrecognized tax benefits has been excluded from the contractual obligations table because a reasonable estimate of the timing and amount of cash out flows from future tax settlements cannot be determined. For additional information, refer to Note 9 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
              (2) 
    In fiscal 2001, we accrued reorganization liabilities in connection with our transition to a corporate structure. As of   August 31, 2012  , the remaining liability for reorganization costs was   $269 million  , of which   $258 million   was classified as Other accrued liabilities because expirations of statutes of limitations or other final determinations could occur within 12 months. The reorganization liabilities have been excluded from the contractual obligations table because a reasonable estimate of the timing and amount of cash out flows from future tax settlements cannot be determined. Timing of the resolution of tax audits or the initiation of additional litigation and/or criminal tax proceedings may delay final resolution. Final settlement will result in a payment on a final settlement and/or recording a reorganization cost or benefit in our Consolidated Income Statement.  For additional information, refer to Note 3 (Reorganization Costs, net) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
              (3) 
    Amounts represent projected payments under certain unfunded retirement plans for former pre-incorporation partners. Given these plans are unfunded, we pay these benefits directly. These plans were eliminated for active partners after May 15, 2001. 
              (4) 
    Other commitments include, among other things, information technology, software support and maintenance obligations, as well as other obligations in the ordinary course of business that we cannot cancel or where we would be required to pay a termination fee in the event of cancellation. Amounts shown do not include recourse that we may have to recover termination fees or penalties from clients. 
       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  In the normal course of business and in conjunction with some client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. These arrangements with clients can include provisions whereby we have joint and several liability in relation to the performance of certain contractual obligations along with third parties also providing services and products for a specific project. Indemnification provisions are also included in arrangements under which we agree to hold the indemnified party harmless with respect to third party claims related to such matters as title to assets sold or licensed or certain intellectual property rights. 
  Typically, we have contractual recourse against third parties for certain payments made by us in connection with arrangements where third party nonperformance has given rise to the client s claim. Payments by us under any of the arrangements described above are generally conditioned on the client making a claim which may be disputed by us typically under dispute resolution procedures specified in the particular arrangement. The limitations of liability under these arrangements may be expressly limited or may not be expressly specified in terms of time and/or amount. 
  For arrangements with unspecified limitations, we cannot reasonably estimate the aggregate maximum potential liability, as it is inherently difficult to predict the maximum potential amount of such payments, due to the conditional nature and unique facts of each particular arrangement. 
  To date, we have not been required to make any significant payment under any of the arrangements described above. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 15 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    
    45 

       Table of Contents     

   Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 
  In March 2012, the Company adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) on fair value measurements. The guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions, i.e. an exit price. Additionally, any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 asset valuation classifications must be disclosed, including the reasons for the transfers. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information related to the three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements, see Note 10 (Retirement and Profit Sharing Plans) to these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  New Accounting Pronouncements 
  In June 2011, the FASB issued guidance which requires companies to present net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement or in two separate but consecutive statements. The Company will adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. 
    ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
  All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading. 
  Foreign Currency Risk 
  We are exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business. We hedge material cash flow exposures when feasible using forward contracts. These instruments are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and credit risk. Credit risk is managed through careful selection and ongoing evaluation of the financial institutions utilized as counterparties. 
  Certain of these hedge positions are undesignated hedges of balance sheet exposures such as intercompany loans and typically have maturities of less than one year. These hedges primarily U.S. dollar/Indian rupee, U.S. dollar/Euro, U.S. dollar/Australian dollar, U.S. dollar/Singapore dollar, U.S. dollar/Philippine peso, U.S. dollar/Japanese yen, U.S. dollar/Swiss franc and U.S. dollar/Norwegian krone are intended to offset remeasurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Income Statement. Additionally, we have hedge positions that are designated cash flow hedges of certain intercompany charges relating to our Global Delivery Network. These hedges U.S. dollar/Indian rupee, U.S. dollar/Philippine peso, U.K. pound/Indian rupee and Euro/Indian rupee, which typically have maturities not exceeding three years are intended to partially offset the impact of foreign currency movements on future costs relating to resources supplied by our Global Delivery Network. 
  For designated cash flow hedges, gains and losses currently recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss will be reclassified into earnings at the time when certain anticipated intercompany charges are accrued as Cost of Services. As of   August 31, 2012  , it was anticipated that   $28 million   of the net losses, net of tax currently recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss will be reclassified into Cost of Services within the next 12 months. 
  We use sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may have on the fair value of our hedge portfolio. The sensitivity of the hedge portfolio is computed based on the market value of future cash flows as affected by changes in exchange rates. This sensitivity analysis represents the hypothetical changes in value of the hedge position and does not reflect the offsetting gain or loss on the underlying exposure. A 10% change in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar (or other base currency of the hedge if not a U.S. dollar hedge) with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a change in the fair value of our hedge instruments of approximately   $402 million   and   $358 million   as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , respectively. 
    
  Interest Rate Risk 
  The interest rate risk associated with our borrowing and investing activities as of   August 31, 2012   is not material in relation to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. While we may do so in the future, we have not used derivative financial instruments to alter the interest rate characteristics of our investment holdings or debt instruments. 
  Equity Price Risk 
  The equity price risk associated with our marketable equity securities that are subject to market price volatility is not material in relation to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
    
    46 

       Table of Contents     

   ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
  See the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and financial statements commencing on page F-1. 
    
             ITEM 9. 
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
     None. 
    
    ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
  (a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  An evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Based on that evaluation, the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer of Accenture plc have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level. 
  (b) Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: 
           i. 
    pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; 
              ii. 
    provide reasonable assurance that the transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and our Board of Directors; and 
              iii. 
    provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. 
       47 

     Table of Contents     

   Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based on its evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, as part of their audit, has issued its attestation report, included herein, on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. See  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on page F-2. 
  (c) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
    ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION 
  None. 
    
    48 

       Table of Contents     

   PART III 
      
           ITEM 10. 
    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
     There have been no material changes to the procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors from those described in the Proxy Statement for our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders filed with the SEC on December 19, 2011. 
  Information about our executive officers is contained in the discussion entitled  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this Form 10-K. The remaining information called for by Item 10 will be included in the sections captioned  Board and Corporate Governance Matters Director Biographies,   Board and Corporate Governance Matters Board Meetings and Committees,   Board and Corporate Governance Matters Audit Committee  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2013 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 6, 2013 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the Company s 2012 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. 
      
           ITEM 11. 
    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
     The information called for by Item 11 will be included in the sections captioned  Compensation of Executive Officers and Directors,   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and  Reports of the Committees of the Board Compensation Committee Report  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2013 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 6, 2013 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the Company s 2012 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. 
      
           ITEM 12. 
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS 
     Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans 
  The following table sets forth, as of   August 31, 2012  , certain information related to our compensation plans under which Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares may be issued. 

_______________ 
    The remaining information called for by Item 12 will be included in the sections captioned  Beneficial Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  and  Beneficial Ownership of More Than Five Percent of Any Class of Voting Securities  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2013 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 6, 2013 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the Company s 2012 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. 
    49 

       Table of Contents     

   ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
  The information called for by Item 13 will be included in the sections captioned  Board and Corporate Governance Matters Director Independence  and  Board and Corporate Governance Matters Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2013 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 6, 2013 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the Company s 2012 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. 
    ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 
  The information called for by Item 14 will be included in the sections captioned  Independent Auditors  Fees  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2013 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 6, 2013 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the Company s 2012 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. 
    
    50 

       Table of Contents     

   PART IV 
    
    ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
  (a) List of documents filed as part of this report: 
  1.    Financial Statements as of   August 31, 2012   and   August 31, 2011   and for the three years ended   August 31, 2012   Included in Part II of this Form 10-K: 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  Consolidated Income Statements 
  Consolidated Shareholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income Statements 
  Consolidated Cash Flows Statements 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  2.    Financial Statement Schedules: 
  None 
  3.    Exhibit Index: 

51 

     Table of Contents     

52 

     Table of Contents     

(*) 
    Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

The agreements and other documents filed as exhibits to this report are not intended to provide factual information or other disclosure other than with respect to the terms of the agreements or other documents themselves, and you should not rely on them for that purpose. In particular, any representations and warranties made by us in these agreements or other documents were made solely within the specific context of the relevant agreement or document and may not describe the actual state of affairs of the date they were made or at any other time. 
      
    53 

     Table of Contents     

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf on   October 30, 2012   by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
    
                 ACCENTURE PLC 

By: 
    /s/    P  IERRE   N  ANTERME 
        
    Name: Pierre Nanterme 
  Title: Chief Executive Officer 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below hereby constitutes and appoints Pierre Nanterme, Pamela J. Craig and Julie Spellman Sweet, and each of them, as his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with power to act with or without the others and with full power of substitution and resubstitution, to do any and all acts and things and to execute any and all instruments which said attorneys and agents and each of them may deem necessary or desirable to enable the registrant to comply with the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any rules, regulations and requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder in connection with the registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2012 (the  Annual Report ), including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, power and authority to sign the name of the registrant and the name of the undersigned, individually and in his or her capacity as a director or officer of the registrant, to the Annual Report as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, to any and all amendments thereto, and to any and all instruments or documents filed as part thereof or in connection therewith; and each of the undersigned hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys and agents and each of them shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on   October 30, 2012   by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated. 
    
                   Signature 
       
    Title 

/s/    P  IERRE   N  ANTERME 
       
    Chief Executive Officer and Director 
      Pierre Nanterme 
      
    (principal executive officer) 

/s/    P  AMELA   J. C  RAIG 
       
    Chief Financial Officer 
      Pamela J. Craig 
      
    (principal financial officer) 

/s/    A  NTHONY   G. C  OUGHLAN 
       
    Chief Accounting Officer 
      Anthony G. Coughlan 
      
    (principal accounting officer) 

/s/    W  ILLIAM   D. G  REEN 
       
    Chairman of the Board and Director 
      William D. Green 

/s/    D  INA   D  UBLON 
       
    Director 
      Dina Dublon 

54 

     Table of Contents     

                    /s/    C  HARLES   G  IANCARLO 
       
    Director 
      Charles Giancarlo 

/s/    N  OBUYUKI   I  DEI 
       
    Director 
      Nobuyuki Idei 

/s/    W  ILLIAM   L. K  IMSEY 
       
    Director 
      William L. Kimsey 

/s/    R  OBERT   I. L  IPP 
       
    Director 
      Robert I. Lipp 

/s/    M  ARJORIE   M  AGNER 
       
    Director 
      Marjorie Magner 

/s/    B  LYTHE   J. M  C  G  ARVIE 
       
    Director 
      Blythe J. McGarvie 

/s/    S  IR   M  ARK   M  OODY  -S  TUART 
       
    Director 
      Sir Mark Moody-Stuart  

/s/    G  ILLES   C. P   LISSON 
       
    Director 
      Gilles C. P lisson 

/s/    W  ULF     VON   S  CHIMMELMANN 
       
    Director 
      Wulf von Schimmelmann 

55 

       Table of Contents     

   EXHIBIT INDEX 

56 

       Table of Contents     

57 

       Table of Contents     

                  (*) 
    Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

The agreements and other documents filed as exhibits to this report are not intended to provide factual information or other disclosure other than with respect to the terms of the agreements or other documents themselves, and you should not rely on them for that purpose. In particular, any representations and warranties made by us in these agreements or other documents were made solely within the specific context of the relevant agreement or document and may not describe the actual state of affairs of the date they were made or at any other time. 
    58 

       Table of Contents     

   ACCENTURE PLC 
  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Page 
       Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
       
    F-2 
      Consolidated Financial Statements as of August 31, 2012 and 2011 and for the years ended August 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010: 

Consolidated Balance Sheets  
       
    F-3 
       Consolidated Income Statements  
       
    F-4 
       Consolidated Shareholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income Statements  
       
    F-5 
       Consolidated Cash Flows Statements  
       
    F-8 
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
       
    F-9 

F-1 

       Table of Contents     

   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders 
  Accenture plc  : 
  We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of Accenture plc and its subsidiaries as of August 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Shareholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income, and Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended August 31, 2012. We also have audited Accenture plc s internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2012, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Accenture plc s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting (Item 9A(b)). Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Accenture plc and its subsidiaries as of August 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended August 31, 2012, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, Accenture plc maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2012, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
  /s/ KPMG LLP  
  Chicago, Illinois 
  October 30, 2012 
    
    F-2 

       Table of Contents     

   ACCENTURE PLC 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  August 31, 2012 and 2011    
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts   
 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    F-3 

       Table of Contents     

   ACCENTURE PLC 
  CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS 
  For the Years Ended August 31,   2012, 2011 and 2010    
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts) 

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    F-4 

       Table of Contents     

F-5 

       Table of Contents     

F-6 

       Table of Contents     

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
    F-7 

       Table of Contents     

   ACCENTURE PLC 
  CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS 
  For the Years Ended August 31,   2012, 2011 and 2010    
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars) 
   
 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    F-8 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

1.    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  Description of Business 
  Accenture plc is one of the world s leading organizations providing management consulting, technology and outsourcing services and operates globally with one common brand and business model designed to enable it to provide clients around the world with the same high level of service. Drawing on a combination of industry expertise, functional capabilities, alliances, global resources and technology, Accenture plc seeks to deliver competitively priced, high-value services that help clients measurably improve business performance. Accenture plc s global delivery model enables it to provide an end-to-end delivery capability by drawing on its global resources to deliver high-quality, cost-effective solutions to clients. 
  Principles of Consolidation 
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Accenture plc, an Irish company, and its controlled subsidiary companies (collectively, the  Company ). Accenture plc s only business is to hold Class I common shares in, and to act as the sole general partner of, its subsidiary, Accenture SCA, a Luxembourg partnership limited by shares. The Company operates its business through Accenture SCA and subsidiaries of Accenture SCA. Accenture plc controls Accenture SCA s management and operations and consolidates Accenture SCA s results in its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  The shares of Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. held by persons other than the Company are treated as a noncontrolling interest in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The noncontrolling interest percentages were   8%   and   9%   as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , respectively. Purchases and/or redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares are accounted for at carryover basis. 
  All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to the Company s fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a reference to  fiscal   2012    means the 12-month period that ended on   August 31, 2012  . All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of the Company s fiscal year. 
  Reincorporation in Ireland 
  On June 10, 2009, Accenture plc was incorporated in Ireland, as a public limited company, in order to effect moving the place of incorporation of the Company s parent holding company from Bermuda to Ireland (the  Transaction ). The Transaction was completed on September 1, 2009, at which time Accenture Ltd, our predecessor holding company, became a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture plc and Accenture plc became the Company s parent holding company. Accenture Ltd was dissolved on December 29, 2009. 
  Use of Estimates 
  The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. Although these estimates are based on management s best knowledge of current events and actions that the Company may undertake in the future, actual results may be different from those estimates. 
    
  Reclassifications 
  Certain amounts, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, reported in previous years have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal   2012   presentation.  
  Revenue Recognition 
  Revenues from contracts for technology integration consulting services where the Company designs/redesigns, builds and implements new or enhanced systems applications and related processes for its clients are recognized on the percentage-of-completion method, which involves calculating the percentage of services provided during the reporting period compared to the total estimated services to be provided over the duration of the contract. Contracts for technology integration consulting services generally span six months to two years. Estimated revenues used in applying the percentage-of-completion method include estimated incentives for which achievement of defined goals is deemed probable. This method is followed where reasonably dependable estimates of revenues and costs can be made. Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are continuously monitored during the term of the contract, and recorded revenues and estimated costs are subject to revision as the contract progresses. Such revisions may result in increases or decreases to revenues and income and are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in the periods in which they are first identified. If the Company s estimates indicate that a contract loss will occur, a loss provision  
    F-9 

     Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

is recorded in the period in which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which the estimated total direct and indirect costs of the contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract and are included in Cost of services and classified in Other accrued liabilities. 
  Revenues from contracts for non-technology integration consulting services with fees based on time and materials or cost-plus are recognized as the services are performed and amounts are earned. The Company considers amounts to be earned once evidence of an arrangement has been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In such contracts, the Company s efforts, measured by time incurred, typically are provided in less than a year and represent the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. For non-technology integration consulting contracts with fixed fees, the Company recognizes revenues as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, provided the billable amounts are not contingent, are consistent with the services delivered, and are earned. Contingent or incentive revenues relating to non-technology integration consulting contracts are recognized when the contingency is satisfied and the Company concludes the amounts are earned. 
  Outsourcing contracts typically span several years and involve complex delivery, often through multiple workforces in different countries. In a number of these arrangements, the Company hires client employees and becomes responsible for certain client obligations. Revenues are recognized on outsourcing contracts as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, unless the amounts are billed in advance of performance of services, in which case revenues are recognized when the services are performed and amounts are earned. Revenues from time-and-materials or cost-plus contracts are recognized as the services are performed. In such contracts, the Company s effort, measured by time incurred, represents the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as transactions are processed based on objective measures of output. Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognized on a straight-line basis, unless revenues are earned and obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. Outsourcing contracts can also include incentive payments for benefits delivered to clients. Revenues relating to such incentive payments are recorded when the contingency is satisfied and the Company concludes the amounts are earned. 
  Costs related to delivering outsourcing services are expensed as incurred with the exception of certain transition costs related to the set-up of processes, personnel and systems, which are deferred during the transition period and expensed evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. The deferred costs are specific internal costs or incremental external costs directly related to transition or set-up activities necessary to enable the outsourced services. Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment losses are recorded when projected remaining undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets. Deferred transition costs were   $538,638   and   $547,308   as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , respectively, and are included in Deferred contract costs. Amounts billable to the client for transition or set-up activities are deferred and recognized as revenue evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. Deferred transition revenues were   $551,364   and   $553,232   as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , respectively, and are included in non-current Deferred revenues relating to contract costs. Contract acquisition and origination costs are expensed as incurred.   
  The Company enters into contracts that may consist of multiple elements. These contracts may include any combination of technology integration consulting services, non-technology integration consulting services or outsourcing services described above. Revenues for contracts with multiple elements are allocated based on the lesser of the element s relative selling price or the amount that is not contingent on future delivery of another element. The selling price of each element is determined by obtaining the vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) of fair value of each element. VSOE of fair value is based on the price charged when the element is sold separately by the Company on a regular basis and not as part of a contract with multiple elements. If the amount of non-contingent revenues allocated to a delivered element accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting is less than the costs to deliver such services, then such costs are deferred and recognized in future periods when the revenues become non-contingent. Revenues are recognized in accordance with the Company s accounting policies for the separate elements, as described above. Elements qualify for separation when the services have value on a stand-alone basis, selling price of the separate elements exists and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in the Company s control. While determining fair value and identifying separate elements require judgment, generally fair value and the separate elements are readily identifiable as the Company also sells those elements unaccompanied by other elements. 
  Revenues recognized in excess of billings are recorded as Unbilled services. Billings in excess of revenues recognized are recorded as Deferred revenues until revenue recognition criteria are met. 
  Revenues before reimbursements ( net revenues ) include the margin earned on computer hardware and software, as well as revenues from alliance agreements. Reimbursements include billings for travel and other out-of-pocket expenses and third-party costs, such as the cost of hardware and software resales. In addition, Reimbursements include allocations from gross billings  
    F-10 

     Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

to record an amount equivalent to reimbursable costs, where billings do not specifically identify reimbursable expenses. The Company reports revenues net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions. 
  Employee Share-Based Compensation Arrangements 
  Share-based compensation expense is recognized over the requisite service period for awards of equity instruments to employees based on the grant date fair value of those awards expected to ultimately vest. Forfeitures are estimated on the date of grant and revised if actual or expected forfeiture activity differs materially from original estimates. 
  Income Taxes 
  The Company calculates and provides for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which it operates. Deferred tax assets and liabilities, measured using enacted tax rates, are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax and financial statement bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance reduces the deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company establishes liabilities or reduces assets for uncertain tax positions when the Company believes those tax positions are not more likely than not of being sustained if challenged. Each fiscal quarter, the Company evaluates these uncertain tax positions and adjusts the related tax assets and liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. 
  Translation of Non-U.S. Currency Amounts 
  Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at fiscal year-end exchange rates. Revenue and expense items are translated at average foreign currency exchange rates prevailing during the fiscal year. Translation adjustments are included in Accumulated other comprehensive loss. Gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions that are of a long-term investment nature are reported in the same manner as translation adjustments. 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  Cash and cash equivalents consist of all cash balances and liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, including money market funds of   $1,265,000   and   $1,150,000   as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , respectively. As a result of certain subsidiaries  cash management systems, checks issued but not presented to the banks for payment may create negative book cash payables. Such negative balances are classified as Current portion of long term debt and bank borrowings. 
  Client Receivables, Unbilled Services and Allowances 
  The Company records its client receivables and unbilled services at their face amounts less allowances. On a periodic basis, the Company evaluates its receivables and unbilled services and establishes allowances based on historical experience and other currently available information. As of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , total allowances recorded for client receivables and unbilled services were   $64,874   and   $73,296  , respectively. The allowance reflects the Company s best estimate of collectibility risks on outstanding receivables and unbilled services. In limited circumstances, the Company agrees to extend financing to certain clients. The terms vary by contract, but generally payment for services is contractually linked to the achievement of specified performance milestones. 
  Concentrations of Credit Risk 
  The Company s financial instruments, consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents, foreign currency exchange rate instruments, client receivables and unbilled services, are exposed to concentrations of credit risk. The Company places its cash and cash equivalents and foreign exchange instruments with highly-rated financial institutions, limits the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution and conducts ongoing evaluation of the credit worthiness of the financial institutions with which it does business. Client receivables are dispersed across many different industries and countries; therefore, concentrations of credit risk are limited. 
  Investments 
  All liquid investments with an original maturity greater than 90 days but less than one year are considered to be short-term investments. Investments with an original maturity greater than one year are considered to be long-term investments. Marketable short-term and long-term investments are classified and accounted for as available-for-sale investments. Available-for-sale investments are reported at fair value with changes in unrealized gains and losses recorded as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss until realized. Quoted market prices are used to determine the fair values of common equity and debt  
    F-11 

     Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

securities that were issued by publicly traded entities. Interest and amortization of premiums and discounts for debt securities are included in Interest income. Realized gains and losses on securities are determined based on the First In, First Out method and are included in Loss on investments, net. The Company does not hold these investments for speculative or trading purposes. 
  Property and Equipment 
  Property and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property and equipment is computed on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives: 
                 Buildings 
    20 to 25 years 
      Computers, related equipment and software 
    2 to 7 years 
      Furniture and fixtures 
    5 to 10 years 
      Leasehold improvements 
    Lesser of lease term or 15 years 

Long-Lived Assets 
  Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of long-lived assets or groups of assets is assessed based on a comparison of the carrying amount to the estimated future net cash flows. If estimated future undiscounted net cash flows are less than the carrying amount, the asset is considered impaired and expense is recorded at an amount required to reduce the carrying amount to fair value. 
    
  Operating Expenses 
  Selected components of operating expenses were as follows: 

_______________  
           (1) 
    For additional information, see   Client Receivables, Unbilled Services and Allowances.  
     Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 
  In March 2012, the Company adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) on fair value measurements. The guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions, i.e. an exit price. Additionally, any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 asset valuation classifications must be disclosed, including the reasons for the transfers. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information related to the three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements, see Note 10 (Retirement and Profit Sharing Plans) to these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Subsequent Events 
  The Company has evaluated events and transactions subsequent to the balance sheet date. Based on this evaluation, the Company is not aware of any events or transactions (other than those disclosed herein) that occurred subsequent to the balance sheet date but prior to filing that would require recognition or disclosure in its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    F-12 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

2.    EARNINGS PER SHARE 
  Basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Diluted earnings per share assumes the redemption of all Accenture SCA Class I common shares owned by holders of noncontrolling interests and the exchange of all Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, on a one-for-one basis. The income effect does not take into account  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests other,  since those shares are not redeemable or exchangeable for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. 
              (2) 
    Fiscal   2011   and   2010   diluted weighted average Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and earnings per share amounts have been restated to reflect the impact of the issuance of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units in connection with the   fiscal 2012   payment of cash dividends. This restatement resulted in a   one cent   decrease in diluted earnings per share from   $3.40   to   $3.39   for   fiscal 2011  . 
     For fiscal   2012 and 2011  , there were   no   options excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share because their exercise price would render them anti-dilutive. For fiscal   2010  ,   110,294   options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share because their exercise prices would render them anti-dilutive. 

F-13 

       Table of Contents     

   3.    REORGANIZATION COSTS, NET 
  In fiscal 2001, the Company accrued reorganization liabilities in connection with its transition to a corporate structure. These liabilities included certain non-income tax liabilities, such as stamp taxes, as well as liabilities for certain individual income tax exposures related to the transfer of interests in certain entities to the Company as part of the reorganization. These primarily represent unusual and disproportionate individual income tax exposures assumed by certain, but not all, of the Company s shareholders and partners in certain tax jurisdictions specifically related to the transfer of their partnership interests in certain entities to the Company as part of the reorganization. (Prior to fiscal 2005, the Company referred to its highest-level employees with the  partner  title and the Company continues to use the term  partner  to refer to these persons in certain situations related to its reorganization and the period prior to its incorporation.) The Company identified certain shareholders and partners who may incur such unusual and disproportionate financial damage in certain jurisdictions. These include shareholders and partners who were subject to tax in their jurisdiction on items of income arising from the reorganization transaction that were not taxable for most other shareholders and partners. In addition, certain other shareholders and partners were subject to a different rate or amount of tax than other shareholders or partners in the same jurisdiction. When additional taxes are assessed on these shareholders or partners in connection with these transfers, the Company has made and intends to make payments, and in one country has contractually committed, to reimburse certain costs associated with the assessment either to the shareholder or partner, or to the taxing authority. The Company has recorded reorganization expense and the related liability where such liabilities are probable. Interest accruals are made to cover reimbursement of interest on such tax assessments. 
  The Company s reorganization activity was as follows: 

_______________  
           (1) 
    Includes final agreements with tax authorities and expirations of statutes of limitations. 
     As of   August 31, 2012  , reorganization liabilities of   $257,589   were included in Other accrued liabilities because expirations of statutes of limitations or other final determinations could occur within 12 months, and reorganization liabilities of   $11,217   were included in Other non-current liabilities. Timing of the resolution of tax audits or the initiation of additional litigation and/or criminal tax proceedings may delay final resolution. Final resolution, through settlement, conclusion of legal proceedings or a tax authority s decision not to pursue a claim, will result in payment by the Company of amounts in settlement or judgment of these matters and/or recording of a reorganization benefit or cost in the Company s Consolidated Income Statement. It is possible the aggregate amount of such payments in connection with resolution of all such proceedings could exceed the currently recorded amounts. As of   August 31, 2012  , only a small number of jurisdictions remain that have active audits/investigations or open statutes of limitations, and only one is significant (which is the country referenced above). In that country, current and former partners, and the Company, are engaged in disputes with tax authorities in connection with the corporate reorganization in 2001, some of which have resulted, and others of which are expected to result, in litigation. These individuals and the Company intend to vigorously defend their positions. 
    F-14 

       Table of Contents     

   4.    ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 
  The components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss were as follows: 

5.    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT 
  The components of Property and equipment, net were as follows: 

F-15 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   6.    BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL 
  During fiscal   2012  , the Company acquired the net assets of a provider of residential and commercial mortgage processing services. In addition, the Company completed   four   individually immaterial acquisitions. The total consideration for all acquisitions was   $174,383  . In connection with these acquisitions, the Company recorded goodwill of   $123,817  , which was allocated among the reportable operating segments. Goodwill also included immaterial adjustments related to recent acquisitions. The Company also recorded   $57,732   in intangible assets, primarily related to customer relationships. The intangible assets are being amortized over   three   to   seven   years. The pro forma effects on the Company s operations were not material. 
  During fiscal   2011  , the Company acquired the net assets of a provider of software solutions for the property and casualty insurance industry. In addition, the Company completed   four   individually immaterial acquisitions. The total consideration for all acquisitions was   $306,187  . In connection with these acquisitions, the Company recorded goodwill of   $254,975  , which was allocated among the reportable operating segments. The Company also recorded   $81,735   in intangible assets, primarily related to customer relationships and intellectual property. The intangible assets are being amortized over a period of less than   one   to   fifteen   years. The pro forma effects on the Company s operations were not material. 
  During fiscal   2010  , the Company completed several individually immaterial acquisitions. 
  Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Based on the results of its annual impairment analysis, the Company determined that no impairment existed as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  . 
  The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable operating segment were as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    On September 1, 2011, the Company renamed the Communications   High Tech operating group to Communications, Media   Technology. No amounts have been reclassified in any period in connection with this name change. 
       
    F-16 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

7.    DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
  In the normal course of business, the Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. Derivative transactions are governed by a uniform set of policies and procedures covering areas such as authorization, counterparty exposure and hedging practices. Positions are monitored using techniques such as market value and sensitivity analyses. The Company does not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes. The Company classifies cash flows from its derivative programs as cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Cash Flows Statement. 
  Certain derivatives also give rise to credit risks from the possible non-performance by counterparties. Credit risk is generally limited to the fair value of those contracts that are favorable to the Company, and the maximum amount of loss due to credit risk, based on the gross fair value of all of the Company s derivative financial instruments, was approximately   $61,486   as of   August 31, 2012  . 
  The Company also utilizes standard counterparty master agreements containing provisions for the netting of certain foreign currency transaction obligations and for set-off of certain obligations in the event of an insolvency of one of the parties to the transaction. These provisions may reduce the Company s potential overall loss resulting from the insolvency of a counterparty and reduce a counterparty s potential overall loss resulting from the insolvency of the Company. Additionally, these agreements contain early termination provisions triggered by adverse changes in a counterparty s credit rating, thereby enabling the Company to accelerate settlement of a transaction prior to its contractual maturity and potentially decrease the Company s realized loss on an open transaction. Similarly, a decrement in the Company s credit rating could trigger a counterparty s early termination rights, thereby enabling a counterparty to accelerate settlement of a transaction prior to its contractual maturity and potentially increase the Company s realized loss on an open transaction. The aggregate fair value of the Company s derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a liability position as of   August 31, 2012   was   $94,076  . 
  The Company s derivative financial instruments consist of deliverable and non-deliverable foreign currency forward contracts. Fair values for derivative financial instruments are based on prices computed using third-party valuation models and are classified as Level 2 in accordance with the three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements. All of the significant inputs to the third-party valuation models are observable in active markets. Inputs include current market-based parameters such as forward rates, yield curves and credit default swap pricing. For additional information related to the three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements, see Note 10 (Retirement and Profit Sharing Plans) to these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Cash Flow Hedges 
  Certain of the Company s subsidiaries are exposed to currency risk through their use of resources supplied by the Company s Global Delivery Network. To mitigate this risk, the Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the foreign exchange risk of the forecasted intercompany expenses denominated in foreign currencies for up to three years in the future. The Company has designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges. As of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , the Company held no derivatives that were designated as fair value or net investment hedges. 
  In order for a derivative to qualify for hedge accounting, the derivative must be formally designated as a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge by documenting the relationship between the derivative and the hedged item. The documentation includes a description of the hedging instrument, the hedge item, the risk being hedged, the Company s risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge, the method for assessing the effectiveness of the hedge and the method for measuring hedge ineffectiveness. Additionally, the hedge relationship must be expected to be highly effective at offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item at both inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis. The Company assesses the ongoing effectiveness of its hedges using the Hypothetical Derivative Method, which measures hedge ineffectiveness based on a comparison of the change in fair value of the actual derivative designated as the hedging instrument and the change in fair value of a hypothetical derivative. The hypothetical derivative would have terms that identically match the critical terms of the hedged item. The Company measures and records hedge ineffectiveness at the end of each fiscal quarter. 
  For a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in estimated fair value of a hedging instrument is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of Shareholders  Equity and is reclassified into Cost of services in the Consolidated Income Statement during the period in which the hedged transaction is recognized. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of a cash flow hedge is recognized immediately in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Income Statement and for fiscal   2012, 2011 and 2010  , was not material. In addition, the Company did not discontinue any cash flow hedges during fiscal   2012, 2011 and 2010  . 
    F-17 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

The activity related to the change in net unrealized (losses) gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax, in Accumulated other comprehensive loss was as follows: 

As of   August 31, 2012  ,   $(28,346)   of the amounts related to derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss is expected to be reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months. 
  Other Derivatives 
  The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts, which have not been designated as hedges, to hedge balance sheet exposures, such as intercompany loans. These instruments are generally short-term in nature, with typical maturities of less than one year, and are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Realized gains or losses and changes in the estimated fair value of these derivatives were a net loss of   $(153,913)   and a net gain of   $112,118   for fiscal   2012   and   2011  , respectively. Gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Income Statement and are offset by gains and losses on the related hedged items.  
    
  Fair Value of Derivative Instruments 
  The notional and fair values of all derivative instruments were as follows: 

F-18 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

8.    BORROWINGS AND INDEBTEDNESS 
  As of   August 31, 2012  , the Company had the following borrowing facilities, including the issuance of letters of credit, to support general working capital purposes: 

_______________  
           (1) 
    On October 31, 2011, the Company replaced its   $1,200,000   syndicated loan facility maturing on   July 31, 2012   with a   $1,000,000   syndicated loan facility maturing on   October 31, 2016  . This facility provides unsecured, revolving borrowing capacity for general working capital purposes, including the issuance of letters of credit. Financing is provided under this facility at the prime rate or at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread. This facility requires the Company to: (1) limit liens placed on its assets to (a) liens incurred in the ordinary course of business (subject to certain qualifications) and (b) other liens securing obligations not to exceed   30%   of its consolidated assets; and (2) maintain a debt-to-cash-flow ratio not exceeding   1.75   to   1.00  . The Company continues to be in compliance with relevant covenant terms. The facility is subject to annual commitment fees. As of   August 31, 2012  , the Company had no borrowings under the facility. As of   August 31, 2011  , the Company had   no   borrowings under the prior facility.  
              (2) 
    The Company maintains separate, uncommitted and unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities. These facilities provide local currency financing for the majority of the Company s operations. Interest rate terms on the revolving facilities are at market rates prevailing in the relevant local markets. As of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , the Company had   no   borrowings under these facilities. 
              (3) 
    The Company also maintains local guaranteed and non-guaranteed lines of credit for those locations that cannot access the Company s global facilities. As of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , the Company had   no   borrowings under these various facilities. 
       
  Under the borrowing facilities described above, the Company had an aggregate of   $164,121   and   $177,906   of letters of credit outstanding as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , respectively. In addition, the Company also had total outstanding debt of   $33   and   $4,419   as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , respectively. 
    F-19 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

9.    INCOME TAXES 

_______________  
           (1) 
    The fiscal 2012 U.S. federal and U.S. state and local current and deferred tax expense reflects the payment of a discretionary contribution of   $500,000   to the Company s U.S. defined benefit pension plans that is expected to be funded during the first half of fiscal 2013. 
     Deferred income tax (benefit) expense recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss in the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to the defined benefit plans liability before noncontrolling interests was   $(132,764)   and   $21,171   in fiscal   2012   and   2011  , respectively, and related to the cash flow hedges before noncontrolling interests was   $(35,152)   and   $19,561   in fiscal   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
  The components of Income before income taxes were as follows: 

The reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the Company s effective income tax rate was as follows: 

_______________  
           (1) 
    Final determinations include final agreements with tax authorities and expirations of statutes of limitations. 
     The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of enacted changes in tax laws and tax rates did not have a material impact on the Company s effective tax rate. 
    F-20 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

The components of the Company s deferred tax assets and liabilities included the following: 

The Company recorded valuation allowances of   $221,015   and   $246,667   as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , respectively, against deferred tax assets principally associated with certain tax net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, as the Company believes it is more likely than not that these assets will not be realized. For all other deferred tax assets, the Company believes it is more likely than not that the results of future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize these deferred tax assets. During fiscal   2012  , the Company recorded a net decrease of   $25,652   in the valuation allowance, primarily due to foreign currency translation. 
  The Company had net operating loss carryforwards as of   August 31, 2012   of   $652,062  . Of this amount,   $74,624   expires between   2013 and 2018  ,   $57,989   expires between   2019 and 2031  , and   $519,449   has an indefinite carryforward period. The Company had tax credit carryforwards as of   August 31, 2012   of   $137,904  , of which   $27,460   will expire between   2013 and 2018  ,   $40,743   will expire between   2019 and 2022  , and   $69,701   has an indefinite carryforward period. 
  As of   August 31, 2012  , the Company had   $1,604,745   of unrecognized tax benefits, of which   $813,721  , if recognized, would favorably affect the Company s effective tax rate. As of   August 31, 2011  , the Company had   $1,645,831   of unrecognized tax benefits, of which   $805,186  , if recognized, would favorably affect the Company s effective tax rate. The differences of   $791,024   and   $840,645  , respectively, represent items recorded as adjustments to equity and offsetting tax benefits associated with the correlative effects of potential transfer pricing adjustments, state income taxes and timing adjustments.  
    F-21 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits was as follows: 

The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the Provision for income taxes. During fiscal   2012, 2011 and 2010  , the Company recognized (benefit) expense of   $(98,765)  ,   $59,950   and   $36,542   in interest and penalties, respectively. The Company had accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits of   $171,556   (  $125,993  , net of tax benefits) and   $285,458   (  $198,646  , net of tax benefits) on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , respectively. 
  The Company is currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for fiscal 2006 to 2008. The audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for fiscal 2003 to 2005 closed during fiscal 2012. The Company is also currently under audit in numerous state and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain and could result in significant cash tax payments, the Company does not believe the outcome of these audits will have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position or results of operations. With limited exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to income tax audits by taxing authorities for the years before 2004. The Company believes that it is reasonably possible that its unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by approximately   $637,000   or increase by approximately   $208,000   in the next 12 months as a result of settlements, lapses of statutes of limitations and other adjustments. The majority of these amounts relate to transfer pricing matters in both U.S. and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. 
  As of   August 31, 2012  , the Company had not recognized a deferred tax liability on   $2,116,263   of undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries, because these earnings are intended to be permanently reinvested. If such earnings were distributed, some countries may impose withholding taxes. It is not practicable to determine the amount of the related unrecognized deferred income tax liability. 
  Portions of the Company s operations are subject to reduced tax rates or are free of tax under various tax holidays which expire between fiscal   2013 and 2016  . Some of the holidays are renewable at reduced levels, with renewal periods through   2026  . The income tax benefits attributable to the tax status of these subsidiaries were estimated to be approximately   $84,000  ,   $72,000   and   $71,000   in fiscal   2012, 2011 and 2010  , respectively. 
    F-22 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

10.    RETIREMENT AND PROFIT SHARING PLANS 
  Defined Benefit Pension 
  In the United States and certain other countries, the Company maintains and administers defined benefit retirement plans for certain current, retired and resigned employees. In addition, the Company s U.S. defined benefit pension plans include a frozen plan for former pre-incorporation partners, which is unfunded. Benefits under the employee retirement plans are primarily based on years of service and compensation during the years immediately preceding retirement or termination of participation in the plan. 
  Certain postemployment benefits, including severance benefits, disability-related benefits and continuation of benefits, such as healthcare benefits and life insurance coverage, are provided to former or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. These costs are substantially provided for on an accrual basis. 
  Assumptions 
  The Company uses an August 31 measurement date for its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. The weighted-average assumptions used to determine the fiscal year-end defined benefit pension obligations were as follows: 

The Company s methodology for selecting the discount rate for the U.S. Plans is to match the plans  cash flows to that of the average of two yield curves that provide the equivalent yields on zero-coupon corporate bonds for each maturity. The discount rate assumption for the non-U.S. Plans primarily reflects the market rate for high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments. The discount rate assumptions are based on the expected duration of the benefit payments for each of the Company s defined benefit pension plans as of the annual measurement date and is subject to change each year. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets should, over time, approximate the actual long-term returns on defined benefit pension plan assets and is based on historical returns and the future expectations for returns for each asset class, as well as the target asset allocation of the asset portfolio. 
  Pension Expense 
  Pension expense for fiscal   2012, 2011 and 2010   was   $102,555  ,   $110,332   and   $76,425   respectively. 
    
    F-23 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

Benefit Obligation, Plan Assets and Funded Status 
  The changes in the defined benefit pension obligations, plan assets and funded status of material defined benefit pension plans for fiscal   2012 and 2011   were as follows: 

F-24 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
  The pre-tax accumulated net actuarial loss and prior service cost (credit) recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss as of   August 31, 2012   was as follows: 

The estimated amounts that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss as of   August 31, 2012   into net periodic pension expense during fiscal   2013   are as follows: 

Funded Status for Defined Benefit Plans 
  The accumulated benefit obligation for material defined benefit pension plans as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011   was as follows: 

The following information is provided for material defined benefit pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets and for plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  : 

Investment Strategies 
  U.S. Pension Plans 
  The overall investment objective of the plans is to provide growth in the defined benefit pension plans  assets to help fund future defined benefit pension obligations while managing risk in order to meet current defined benefit pension obligations. The plans  future prospects, their current financial conditions, the Company s current funding levels and other relevant factors suggest that the plans can tolerate some interim fluctuations in market value and rates of return in order to achieve long-term objectives  
    F-25 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

without undue risk to the plans  ability to meet their current benefit obligations. The Company recognizes that asset allocation of the defined benefit pension plans  assets is an important factor in determining long-term performance. Actual asset allocations at any point in time may vary from the target asset allocations and will be dictated by current and anticipated market conditions, required cash flows and investment decisions of the investment committee and the pension plans  investment funds and managers. Ranges are established to provide flexibility for the asset allocation to vary around the targets without the need for immediate rebalancing. 
  Non-U.S. Pension Plans 
  Plan assets in non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans conform to the investment policies and procedures of each plan and to relevant legislation. The pension committee or trustee of each plan regularly, but at least annually, reviews the investment policy and the performance of the investment managers. In certain countries, the trustee is also required to consult with the Company. Asset allocation decisions are made to provide risk adjusted returns that align with the overall investment strategy for each plan. Generally, the investment return objective of each plan is to achieve a total annualized rate of return that exceeds inflation over the long term by an amount based on the target asset allocation mix of that plan. In certain countries, plan assets are invested in funds that are required to hold a majority of assets in bonds, with a smaller proportion in equities. Also, certain plan assets are entirely invested in contracts held with the plan insurer, which determines the strategy. Defined benefit pension plans in certain countries are unfunded. 
  Risk Management 
  Plan investments are exposed to certain risks including market, interest rate and operating risk. In order to mitigate significant concentrations of these risks, the assets are invested in a diversified portfolio primarily consisting of equities and fixed income instruments. Equities are diversified between U.S. and non-U.S. index funds and are intended to achieve long term capital appreciation. To minimize asset volatility relative to the liabilities, a portion of plan assets are allocated to debt securities which appropriately match the duration of individual plan s liabilities. Plan asset allocation and investment managers  guidelines are reviewed on a regular basis. 
    
  Plan Assets 
  The Company s target allocation for fiscal   2013   and weighted-average plan assets allocations as of   August 31, 2012 and 2011   by asset category, for material defined benefit pension plans were as follows: 

F-26 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

Fair Value Measurements 
  Fair value is the price that would be received upon sale of an asset or paid upon transfer of a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date and in the principal or most advantageous market for that asset or liability. The fair value should be calculated based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, not on assumptions specific to the entity. In addition, the fair value of liabilities should include consideration of non-performance risk, including the Company s own credit risk. 
  The three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements is based on whether the inputs to those measurements are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company s market assumptions. The fair-value hierarchy requires the use of observable market data when available and consists of the following levels: 
             
    Level 1 Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets; 
                
    Level 2 Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs are observable in active markets; and 
                
    Level 3 Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable. 
       
  The fair values of the material U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans assets as of   August 31, 2012   are as follows: 

There were no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 during   fiscal 2012  . 
    
    F-27 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

Expected Contributions 
  Generally, annual contributions are made at such times and in amounts as required by law and may, from time to time, exceed minimum funding requirements. The Company estimates it will pay approximately   $572,385   in fiscal   2013   related to contributions to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, cash funding for its retiree medical plans and benefit payments related to the unfunded frozen plan for former pre-incorporation partners. The above estimate includes the payment of a discretionary contribution of   $500,000   to the Company s U.S. defined benefit pension plans that is expected to be funded during the first half of fiscal 2013. The Company has not determined whether it will make additional voluntary contributions for any of its other defined benefit pension plans.  
    
  Estimated Future Benefit Payments 
  Benefit payments for material defined benefit pension plans, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows: 

Defined Contribution Plans 
  In the United States and certain other countries, the Company maintains and administers defined contribution plans for certain current, retired and resigned employees. Defined contribution plans in countries other than the United States and the United Kingdom are individually immaterial. Total expenses recorded for the United States and the United Kingdom defined contribution plans were   $255,606  ,   $235,439   and   $223,793   in fiscal   2012, 2011 and 2010  , respectively. 
    11.    SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION 
  Share Incentive Plans 
  On February 4, 2010, Accenture s shareholders approved the Accenture plc 2010 Share Incentive Plan (the  2010 SIP ), which the Board of Directors of Accenture approved on December 10, 2009. Any new equity grants awarded on or after February 4, 2010 were under the 2010 SIP. No new awards were granted on or after February 4, 2010 under the 2001 Share Incentive Plan (the  2001 SIP ), and any share capacity remaining under the 2001 SIP was cancelled and not incorporated into the 2010 SIP. However, shares related to outstanding awards granted under the 2001 SIP prior to February 4, 2010 continue to be satisfied from shares issued under the 2001 SIP. 
  The 2010 SIP is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Accenture and provides for the grant of nonqualified share options, incentive stock options, restricted share units and other share-based awards. A maximum of   50,000,000   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares are currently authorized for awards under the 2010 SIP. As of   August 31, 2012  , there were   24,723,631   shares available for future grants under the 2010 SIP. Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares covered by awards that terminate, lapse or are cancelled may again be used to satisfy awards under the 2010 SIP. The Company issues new Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and shares from treasury for shares delivered under the 2010 SIP. 
    
  A summary of information with respect to share-based compensation is as follows: 

F-28 

     Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

Restricted Share Units 
  Under the 2010 SIP and previously under the 2001 SIP, participants may be granted restricted share units, each of which represents an unfunded, unsecured right, which is nontransferable except in the event of death of the participant, to receive an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share on the date specified in the participant s award agreement. The fair value of the awards is determined on the grant date based on the Company s stock price. The restricted share units granted under this plan are subject to cliff or graded vesting, generally ranging from   2   to   10   years. For awards with graded vesting, compensation expense is recognized over the vesting term of each separately vesting portion. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis for awards with cliff vesting. Restricted share unit activity during fiscal   2012   was as follows: 

_______________ 
    As of   August 31, 2012  , there was   $543,326   of total restricted share unit compensation expense related to nonvested awards not yet recognized, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of   1.5   years. As of   August 31, 2012  , there were   2,044,797   restricted share units vested but not yet delivered as Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. 
    
  Stock Options 
  Stock options are granted to senior executives and other employees under the 2010 SIP and previously under the 2001 SIP. Options generally have an exercise price that is at least equal to the fair value of the Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares on the date the option is granted. Options granted under the 2010 SIP and previously under the 2001 SIP are subject to cliff or graded vesting, generally ranging from   2   to   10   years, and generally have a contractual term of   10   years. For awards with graded vesting, compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period of each separately vesting portion. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis for awards with cliff vesting. The fair value of each options grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model. Stock option activity for fiscal   2012   was as follows: 

F-29 

     Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

Other information pertaining to option activity is as follows: 

Cash received from the exercise of stock options was   $50,049   and the income tax benefit realized from the exercise of stock options was   $20,428   for fiscal   2012  . As of   August 31, 2012  , there was   $179   of total stock option compensation expense related to nonvested awards not yet recognized, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of   0.9   years. 
  Employee Share Purchase Plans 
  2010 ESPP 
  The 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  2010 ESPP ) is a nonqualified plan that provides eligible employees of the Company with an opportunity to purchase Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares through payroll deductions. Under the 2010 ESPP, eligible employees may purchase Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares through the Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ) or the Voluntary Equity Investment Program (the  VEIP ). Under the ESPP, eligible employees may elect to contribute   1%   to   10%   of their compensation during each semi-annual offering period (up to   $7.5   per offering period) to purchase Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at a discount. Under the VEIP, eligible senior executives may elect to contribute up to   30%   of their total compensation towards the monthly purchase of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at fair market value. At the end of the VEIP program year, senior executive participants, who did not withdraw from the program, will be granted restricted share units equal to   50%   of the number of shares purchased during that year. 
  A maximum of   45,000,000   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares may be issued under the 2010 ESPP. As of   August 31, 2012  , the Company had issued   16,513,511   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under the 2010 ESPP. The Company issued   7,406,727  ,   7,382,949   and   1,723,835   shares to employees in fiscal   2012, 2011 and 2010  , respectively, under the 2010 ESPP. 
  2001 ESPP 
  Prior to the 2010 ESPP, participants purchased Accenture Class A ordinary shares through the 2001 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  2001 ESPP ). Any share capacity remaining under the 2001 ESPP was cancelled and not incorporated into the 2010 ESPP share reserve. Under the 2001 ESPP, the Company issued   4,597,562   shares to employees in fiscal   2010  . 
    12.    SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 
  Accenture plc 
  Ordinary Shares 
  The Company has   40,000   authorized ordinary shares, par value    1   per share. Each ordinary share of Accenture plc entitles its holder to receive payments upon a liquidation of Accenture plc; however a holder of an ordinary share is not entitled to vote on matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of Accenture plc or to receive dividends. 
  Class A Ordinary Shares 
  An Accenture plc Class A ordinary share entitles its holder to   one   vote per share, and holders of those shares do not have cumulative voting rights. Each Class A ordinary share entitles its holder to a pro rata part of any dividend at the times and in the amounts, if any, which Accenture plc s Board of Directors from time to time determines to declare, subject to any preferred dividend rights attaching to any preferred shares. Each Class A ordinary share is entitled on a winding-up of Accenture plc to be paid a pro rata part of the value of the assets of Accenture plc remaining after payment of its liabilities, subject to any preferred rights on liquidation attaching to any preferred shares. 
  Class X Ordinary Shares 
  An Accenture plc Class X ordinary share entitles its holder to   one   vote per share, and holders of those shares do not have cumulative voting rights. A Class X ordinary share does not entitle its holder to receive dividends, and holders of those shares are not entitled to be paid any amount upon a winding-up of Accenture plc. Most of the Company s partners who received Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares in connection with the Company s transition to a corporate structure received a corresponding number of Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares. Accenture plc may redeem,  
    F-30 

     Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

at its option, any Class X ordinary share for a redemption price equal to the par value of the Class X ordinary share. Accenture plc has separately agreed with the original holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares not to redeem any Class X ordinary share of such holder if the redemption would reduce the number of Class X ordinary shares held by that holder to a number that is less than the number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares owned by that holder, as the case may be. Accenture plc will redeem Class X ordinary shares upon the redemption or exchange of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares so that the aggregate number of Class X ordinary shares outstanding at any time does not exceed the aggregate number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares outstanding. Class X ordinary shares are not transferable without the consent of Accenture plc. 
  Equity of Subsidiaries Redeemable or Exchangeable for Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares 
  Accenture SCA Class I Common Shares 
  Senior executives in certain countries, including the United States, received Accenture SCA Class I common shares in connection with the Company s transition to a corporate structure. Only the Company and its current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees hold Accenture SCA Class I common shares. Each Accenture SCA Class I common share entitles its holder to   one   vote on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of Accenture SCA and entitles its holders to dividends and liquidation payments. 
  Accenture SCA is obligated, at the option of the holder, to redeem any outstanding Accenture SCA Class I common share at a redemption price per share generally equal to its current market value as determined in accordance with Accenture SCA s articles of association. Under Accenture SCA s articles of association, the market value of a Class I common share will be deemed to be equal to (i) the average of the high and low sales prices of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other designated market on which the Class A ordinary shares trade), net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs, or (ii) if Accenture plc sells its Class A ordinary shares on the date that the redemption price is determined (other than in a transaction with any employee or an affiliate or pursuant to a preexisting obligation), the weighted average sales price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share on the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other market on which the Class A ordinary shares primarily trade), net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs. Accenture SCA may, at its option, pay this redemption price with cash or by delivering Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares on a   one  -for-one basis. Each holder of Class I common shares is entitled to a pro rata part of any dividend and to the value of any remaining assets of Accenture SCA after payment of its liabilities upon dissolution. 
  Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. Exchangeable Shares 
  Partners resident in Canada and New Zealand received Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares in connection with the Company s transition to a corporate structure. Holders of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares may exchange their shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at any time on a one-for-one basis. The Company may, at its option, satisfy this exchange with cash at a price per share generally equal to the market price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share at the time of the exchange. Each exchangeable share of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. entitles its holder to receive distributions equal to any distributions to which an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share entitles its holder. 
    
    F-31 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

13.    MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 
  Share Purchases and Redemptions 
  The Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized funding for the Company s publicly announced open-market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares held by the Company s current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees. As of   August 31, 2012  , the Company s aggregate available authorization was   $4,178,842   for its publicly announced open-market share purchase and these other share purchase programs. 
  The Company s share purchase activity during fiscal   2012   was as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    The Company conducts a publicly announced, open-market share purchase program for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. These shares are held as treasury shares by Accenture plc and may be utilized to provide for select employee benefits, such as equity awards to the Company s employees. 
              (2) 
    During fiscal   2012  , as authorized under the Company s various employee equity share plans, the Company acquired Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares primarily via share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection with the delivery of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under those plans. These purchases of shares in connection with employee share plans do not affect the Company s aggregate available authorization for the Company s publicly announced open-market share purchase and the other share purchase programs. 
     Other Share Redemptions 
  During fiscal   2012  , the Company issued   4,622,450   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares upon redemptions of an equivalent number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares pursuant to its registration statement on Form S-3 (the  registration statement ). The registration statement allows the Company, at its option, to issue freely tradable Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares in lieu of cash upon redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares held by senior executives, former executives and their permitted transferees. 
    
  Dividends 
  The Company s dividend activity during fiscal   2012   was as follows: 

The payment of the cash dividends also resulted in the issuance of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units. Diluted weighted average Accenture plc Class A ordinary share amounts have been restated for all periods presented to reflect this issuance. 
    F-32 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

Subsequent Event 
  On   September 24, 2012  , the Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of   $0.81   per share on its Class A ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on   October 12, 2012  . Accenture plc will cause Accenture SCA to declare a semi-annual cash dividend of   $0.81   per share on its Class I common shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on   October 9, 2012  . Both dividends are payable on   November 15, 2012  . The payment of the cash dividends will result in the issuance of an immaterial number of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units. 
    14.    LEASE COMMITMENTS 
  The Company has operating leases, principally for office space, with various renewal options. Substantially all operating leases are non-cancelable or cancelable only by the payment of penalties. Rental expense in agreements with rent holidays and scheduled rent increases is recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Rental expense, including operating costs and taxes and sublease income from third parties, during fiscal   2012, 2011 and 2010   was as follows: 

Future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases as of   August 31, 2012  , were as follows: 

F-33 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

15.    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
  Commitments 
  The Company has the right to purchase or may also be required to purchase substantially all of the remaining outstanding shares of its Avanade Inc. subsidiary ( Avanade ) not owned by the Company at fair value if certain events occur. Certain holders of Avanade common stock and options to purchase the stock have put rights that, under certain circumstances and conditions, would require Avanade to redeem shares of its stock at fair value. As of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , the Company has reflected the fair value of   $95,957   and   $113,143  , respectively, related to Avanade s redeemable common stock and the intrinsic value of the options on redeemable common stock in Other accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
  Indemnifications and Guarantees 
  In the normal course of business and in conjunction with certain client engagements, the Company has entered into contractual arrangements through which it may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. These arrangements with clients can include provisions whereby the Company has joint and several liability in relation to the performance of certain contractual obligations along with third parties also providing services and products for a specific project. Indemnification provisions are also included in arrangements under which the Company agrees to hold the indemnified party harmless with respect to third-party claims related to such matters as title to assets sold or licensed or certain intellectual property rights. 
  Typically, the Company has contractual recourse against third parties for certain payments made by the Company in connection with arrangements where third-party nonperformance has given rise to the client s claim. Payments by the Company under any of the arrangements described above are generally conditioned on the client making a claim, which may be disputed by the Company typically under dispute resolution procedures specified in the particular arrangement. The limitations of liability under these arrangements may be expressly limited or may not be expressly specified in terms of time and/or amount. 
  As of   August 31, 2012 and 2011  , the Company s aggregate potential liability to its clients for expressly limited guarantees involving the performance of third parties was approximately   $1,036,000   and   $976,000  , respectively, of which all but approximately   $277,000   and   $256,000  , respectively, may be recovered from the other third parties if the Company is obligated to make payments to the indemnified parties that are the consequence of a performance default by the other third parties. For arrangements with unspecified limitations, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the aggregate maximum potential liability, as it is inherently difficult to predict the maximum potential amount of such payments, due to the conditional nature and unique facts of each particular arrangement. 
  To date, the Company has not been required to make any significant payment under any of the arrangements described above. The Company has assessed the current status of performance/payment risk related to arrangements with limited guarantees, unspecified limitations and/or indemnification provisions and believes that any potential payments would be immaterial to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as a whole. 
  Legal Contingencies 
  As of   August 31, 2012  , the Company or its present personnel had been named as a defendant in various litigation matters. The Company and/or its personnel also from time to time are involved in investigations by various regulatory or legal authorities concerning matters arising in the course of its business around the world. Based on the present status of these matters, management believes the range of reasonably possible losses in addition to amounts accrued, net of insurance recoveries, will not have a material effect on the Company s results of operations or financial condition. 
    F-34 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

16.    SEGMENT REPORTING 
  Operating segments are components of an enterprise where separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. 
  The Company s chief operating decision maker is its Chief Executive Officer. The Company s operating segments are managed separately because each operating segment represents a strategic business unit providing management consulting, technology and outsourcing services to clients in different industries. 
     The Company s reportable operating segments are the five operating groups, which are Communications, Media   Technology, Financial Services, Health   Public Service, Products and Resources. Information regarding the Company s reportable operating segments is as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    On September 1, 2011, the Company renamed the Communications   High Tech operating group to Communications, Media   Technology. No amounts have been reclassified in any period in connection with this name change. 
              (2) 
    Amounts include depreciation on property and equipment controlled by each operating segment, as well as an allocation for depreciation on property and equipment they do not directly control. 
              (3) 
    The Company does not allocate total assets by operating segment. Operating segment assets directly attributed to an operating segment and provided to the chief operating decision maker include Receivables from clients, current and non-current Unbilled services, Deferred contract costs and current and non-current Deferred revenues. 
     The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
    F-35 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

Revenues are attributed to geographic regions and countries based on where client services are supervised. Information regarding geographic regions and countries is as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa. 
     The Company conducts business in the following countries that individually comprised 10% or more of consolidated Net revenues: 

The Company conducts business in the following countries that hold 10% or more of its total consolidated Property and equipment, net: 

Net revenues by type of work were as follows: 

F-36 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

17.    QUARTERLY DATA (unaudited) 

_______________  
           (1) 
    The first and second quarters of fiscal   2012   diluted weighted average Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and earnings per share amounts have been restated to reflect the impact of the issuance of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units in connection with the fiscal 2012 payment of cash dividends. This did not result in a change to previously reported Diluted earnings per share. 
       
    F-37 

       Table of Contents     
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

_______________  
           (1) 
    Fiscal   2011   diluted weighted average Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and earnings per share amounts have been restated to reflect the impact of the issuance of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units in connection with the fiscal 2012 payment of cash dividends. This restatement resulted in a   one cent   decrease in diluted earnings per share from   $3.40   to   $3.39   for   fiscal 2011  . 
       F-38 

<EX-10.23>
 2
 acn831201210-kexhibit1023.htm
 FORM OF KEY EXECUTIVE PERFORMANCE-BASED AWARD RSU AGREEMENT - FRANCE

ACN.8.31.2012 10-K Exhibit 10.23 

Exhibit 10.23 
  ACCENTURE LTD 
  2001 SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN  
  AND FRENCH RSU SUBPLAN 
    
  RESTRICTED SHARE UNIT AGREEMENT 
    
  (Key Executive Performance-Based Award   France [___year___]) 
    
  Accenture Ltd, an exempted company registered in Bermuda (the  Company ), hereby grants, as of [___date___],        to [___Name___] (the  Participant ), a total number of [___number___]  Restricted Share Units ( RSUs ), on the terms and conditions set forth herein. This grant is made pursuant to the terms of the Accenture Ltd 2001 Share Incentive Plan, as amended by the Subplan for Restricted Share Units in France (as so amended, the  Plan ), which Plan, as further amended from time to time, are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Restricted Share Unit Agreement.  Each RSU represents the unfunded, unsecured right of the Participant to receive a Share on the date(s) specified herein subject to the conditions specified herein.  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. 
    
  The terms and conditions of the RSUs granted hereunder, to the extent not controlled by the terms and conditions contained in the Plan, are as follows: 
    
  1. Performance-Based Vesting.  
    
  (a) Performance Period. The RSUs shall vest, if at all, based upon the attainment of specific pre-established financial performance objectives (the  Performance Objectives ) by the Company for the period commencing on [___date___] and ending on [___date + [3 years]___] (the  Performance Period ), as set forth in this Section 1. 
    
  (b) Service Relationship. Except as provided in Section 2(a), RSUs that are unvested as of the termination of the Participant s full-time employment status with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (collectively, the  Constituent Companies ) shall be immediately forfeited as of such termination and the Company shall have no further obligations with respect thereto. Such employment status shall hereinafter be referred to in this Agreement as  Qualified Status.  
    
  (c) Total Shareholder Return.  
    
  (i) Up to twenty-five percent (25%) of the RSUs granted to the Participant pursuant to this Agreement shall vest, if at all, based upon the Total Shareholder Return for the Company, as compared to the Comparison Companies, for the Performance Period in the manner set forth on Exhibit 1-A hereto. 
    
  (ii) For purposes of this Agreement, Total Shareholder Return with respect to the Company and each of the Comparison Companies shall mean the quotient of (A) the Fair Market Value of the stock of the particular company or index on [___end date___], divided by (B) the Fair Market Value of the stock of such company or index on [___start date___]. For purposes of calculating a company s Total Shareholder Return, the Fair Market Value of the stock of any company on [___end date___] shall be adjusted to reflect any and all cash, stock or in-kind dividends paid on the stock of such company during the Performance Period as follows: the Fair Market Value of the stock of the company on [___end date___] shall be multiplied by the sum of (Y) one (1) plus (Z) the number of whole and fractional shares of the stock of the company that (i) were actually received in respect of one share (or such greater number of shares that are deemed to have been held at such time pursuant to this clause (c)(ii)) by way of a stock dividend and (ii) would otherwise result assuming each cash dividend paid on the stock (or fair market value of any in-kind dividend, as determined by the Committee) of the company during the Performance Period was used to purchase additional whole and/or fractional shares of stock of the company on the record date of such dividend based on the fair market value of the stock of the company (as determined by the Committee), or with respect to the Company, the Fair Market Value of a Share, on the record date of such dividend. 
    
  (iii) If at any time prior to the completion of the Performance Period, a Comparison Company ceases to be a publicly-traded company, merges or consolidates with another company, is acquired or disposes of a significant portion of its businesses as they exist on the date of this Agreement or experiences any other extraordinary event as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may remove such Comparison Company. 
    
  (iv) For purposes of this Agreement: (i)  Comparison Companies  shall mean Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (ACS), BearingPoint, Inc. (BE), Cap Gemini S.A., Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC), EMC Corporation (EMC),  Hewitt  

Associates, Inc. (HEW), Hewlett-Packard Company (HPQ), International Business Machines Corporation (IBM),  Oracle Corporation (ORCL), Sapient Corporation (SAPE), Sun Microsystems, Inc. (SUNW), Unisys Corporation (UIS) and the S P 500 Index (SPX); and (ii) the  Fair Market Value  of (A) a share of stock of a company on a given date shall mean the average of the high and low trading price of the stock of the company, as reported on the principal exchange on which the stock of such company is traded (or, if the stock is not traded on an exchange but is quoted on Nasdaq or a successor quotation system, the average of the mean between the closing representative bid and asked prices for the stock) and (B) for the S P 500 Index on a given date shall mean the average of the high and low values for such index as reported in the Wall Street Journal (or, if the S P 500 Index is not reported in the Wall Street Journal, in such other reliable source as the Company may determine), in each case for the ten (10) consecutive trading days immediately preceding such date. 
    
  (d) Operating Income Growth Rate. Up to 75% of the RSUs granted to the Participant pursuant to this Agreement shall vest, if at all, based upon the achievement of Operating Income targets by the Company for the Performance Period, as set forth on Exhibit 1-B hereto. For purposes of this Agreement: 
    
   Target Cumulative Operating Income  shall mean the aggregate of the  Operating Income Plan,  as approved by the Committee, for each of the Company s [___number___] fiscal years during the Performance Period.  Within a reasonable period following the availability of all relevant data (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion), the Committee will approve the Company s operating income plan for each applicable fiscal year during the Performance Period (each an  Operating Income Plan ).  
    
   Actual Cumulative Operating Income  shall mean the aggregate of the Company s actual operating income for the Company s [___number___] fiscal years during the Performance Period, as determined from the Company s final, audited financial statements for such fiscal years.   
    
  In the event that, as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee and due to a required change in generally accepted accounting practices, a change in the accounting methods of the Company or an extraordinary and material event in the Company s business (each of the foregoing events being referred to herein as a  Material Event ), Actual Cumulative Operating Income determined after the occurrence of a Material Event would be materially different as a result of the occurrence thereof, the Committee may instruct the Company to determine Actual Cumulative Operating Income for such period, solely for purposes of this Agreement, as if the Material Event had not happened or was not effective. Such instruction may be limited to apply to fiscal periods in which the applicable Operating Income Plan did not account for the occurrence of the Material Event. 
    
  (e) Certification. No RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder shall vest in accordance with Sections 1(c) or (d) unless and until the Committee makes a certification in writing with respect to the achievement of the Performance Objectives for the Performance Period. Following the end of the Performance Period, the Committee shall review and determine whether the Performance Objectives have been met within a reasonable period following the availability of all data necessary to determine whether the Performance Objectives have been achieved, and not later than [___date___], shall certify such finding to the Company and to the Participant. 
    
  2. Termination of Employment.  
    
  (a) Termination as a result of death, Disability, or Involuntary Termination. Notwithstanding anything in Section 1 to the contrary, the RSUs granted hereunder shall vest upon the termination of the Participant s Qualified Status as a result of death, Disability, Involuntary Termination, all as follows: 
    
  (i) Termination as a result of death or Disability. In the event the Participant s Qualified Status is terminated during the Performance Period as a result of death or Disability, the RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder shall remain outstanding throughout the Performance Period and shall vest, if at all, in accordance with Sections 1(c) or (d) upon completion of the Performance Period.  In the event of the death of the Participant during the Performance Period, the Participant s heirs can, within a period of six months as from the date of death, request the release (upon the completion of the Performance Period) of the Shares underlying any vested Restricted Share Units. 
    
  (ii) Involuntary Termination. In the event the Participant s Qualified Status is terminated during the Performance Period due to an Involuntary Termination, the RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder shall remain outstanding throughout the Performance Period. Upon completion of the Performance Period, the Participant shall vest in the number of RSUs granted hereunder equal to the product of (i) the aggregate number of RSUs that would otherwise vest upon completion of the Performance Period in accordance with Sections 1(c) or (d), multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the whole  

number of months that have elapsed from the commencement of the Performance Period through the effective date of the Participant s Involuntary Termination and the denominator of which is [___number of months in Performance Period___]. 
    
  (iii) Age-Based Contingent Vesting. Not applicable. 
    
  (b) Termination for reasons other than death, Disability, Involuntary Termination. In the event the Participant s Qualified Status is terminated during the Performance Period for any reason other than death, Disability, Involuntary Termination, the RSUs granted hereunder shall be immediately forfeited as of such termination and the Company shall have no further obligation with respect thereto. 
    
  (c) Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meaning specified below: 
    
  (i)  Cause  shall mean  cause  as defined in any employment or consultancy agreement (or similar agreement) or in any letter of appointment then in effect between the Participant and the Company or any Affiliate or if not defined therein (it being the intent that the definition of  Cause  shall include, at a minimum, the acts set forth below), or if there shall be no such agreement, to the extent legally permissible, (a) the Participant s embezzlement, misappropriation of corporate funds, or other material acts of dishonesty, (b) the Participant s commission or conviction of any felony, or of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to any felony or misdemeanor, (c) engagement in any activity that the Participant knows or should know could harm the business or reputation of the Company or an Affiliate, (d) the Participant s material failure to adhere to the Company s or an Affiliate s corporate codes, policies or procedures as in effect from time to time, (e) the Participant s continued failure to meet minimum performance standards as determined by the Company or an Affiliate, (f) the Participant s violation of any statutory, contractual, or common law duty or obligation to the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the duty of loyalty, or (g) the Participant s material breach of any confidentiality or non-competition covenant entered into between the Participant and the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the covenants contained in this Agreement. The determination of the existence of Cause shall be made by the Company in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive for purposes of this Agreement. 
    
  (ii)   Disability  shall mean a termination which results from a determination of  disability ( constat d inaptitude ) as that term is defined by French law (article 341-4 of the French social security Code). 
    
  (iii)  Involuntary Termination  shall mean termination of Qualified Status, as applicable, with the Constituent Companies (other than for Cause) which is not voluntary and which is acknowledged as being  involuntary  in writing by an authorized officer of the Company. 
    
  3. Form and Timing of Issuance or Transfer.  
    
  (a) Vested RSUs. Distribution of RSUs shall be made hereunder only in respect of vested RSUs, and shall be made in Shares on a one-for-one basis. 
    
  (b) Distribution Date. Vested RSUs, if any, shall be distributed to the Participant in the manner set forth in Section 3(a) on the date the Committee makes a certification in writing with respect to the achievement of the Performance Objectives for the Performance Period as provided in Section 1(e)  . 
    
  (c) Upon any transfer or issuance of Shares underlying RSUs, the Participant shall certify in a manner acceptable to the Company that the Participant is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan. 
    
  4. Changes to Capital or Business Structure.  The grant of the RSUs shall not in any way affect the right or power of the Company to make adjustments, reclassification, or changes in its capital or business structure, or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
    
  5. Cancellation and Rescission of Shares 
    
  (a) In the following circumstances, the Participant shall, to the extent legally permitted, transfer to the Company     the Shares that have been issued or transferred under this Agreement (without regard to whether the Participant continues to own or control such previously delivered Shares) and the Participant shall bear all costs of issuance or transfer, including any transfer taxes that may be payable in connection with any transfer: 
    
  (i) the Participant s Qualified Status with the Constituent Companies is terminated for Cause, or 

(ii) the Participant engages in any of the Restricted Activities defined in subsection (b) below. 
    
  (b) The Participant shall not, for a period of twelve months following the termination of the Participant s Qualified Status with the Constituent Companies engage in any Restricted Activities, which for the purposes of this Agreement include the following: 
    
  (i) associate (including, but not limited to, association as a sole proprietor, owner, employer, partner, principal, investor, joint venturer, shareholder, associate, employee, member, consultant, contractor or otherwise) with any Competitive Enterprise or any of the affiliates, related entities, successors, or assigns of any Competitive Enterprise; provided, however, that with respect to the equity of any Competitive Enterprise which is or becomes publicly traded, the Participant s ownership as a passive investor of less than 1% of the outstanding publicly traded stock of a Competitive Enterprise shall not be deemed a violation of this Section 5(b)(i); 
    
  (ii) directly or indirectly (A) solicit, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in soliciting, any Client or Prospective Client for the purpose of performing or providing any Consulting Services; (B) perform or provide, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in performing or providing, Consulting Services for any Client or Prospective Client; (C) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship and/or agreement between the Company or any Affiliates and a Client or Prospective Client; or 
    
  (iii) directly or indirectly, solicit, employ or retain, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in soliciting, employing or retaining, any employee or other agent of the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, any former employee or other agent of the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors who ceased working for the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors within an eighteen-month period before or after the date on which the Participant s Qualified Status with the Constituent Companies terminated. 
    
  (c) For purposes of this Agreement:  
    
  (i)  Client  shall mean any person, firm, corporation or other organization whatsoever for whom the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors provided services within a twelve-month period before the date on which the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminated, or about which the Participant learned confidential information within the twelve months prior to the date on which the Participant s Qualified Status with the Constituent Companies terminated. 
    
  (ii)  Competitive Enterprise  shall mean a business enterprise that engages in, or owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in, the performance of services of the type provided by the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors.   Competitive Enterprise  shall include, but not be limited to, the entities set forth on the list maintained by the Company on the myHoldings website, which list may be updated by the Company from time to time. 
    
  (iii)  Consulting Services  shall mean the performance of any services of the type provided by the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors at any time, past, present or future. 
    
  (iv)  Prospective Client  shall mean any person, firm, corporation, or other organization whatsoever with whom the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors had any negotiations or discussions regarding the possible performance of services by the Company or any of its Affiliates or any of their predecessors within the twelve months prior to the date of the termination of the Participant s Qualified Status with the Constituent Companies. 
    
  (v)  solicit  shall mean to have any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner, to take or refrain from taking any action. 
    
  (d) If, during the twelve-month period following the termination of the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies, the Participant is presented with an opportunity that might involve participation in any Restricted Activity under 5(b)(i) above, Participant shall notify the Company in writing of the nature of the opportunity (the  Conflicting Activity ).  Following receipt of sufficient information concerning the Conflicting Activity, the Company will advise Participant in writing whether the Company considers the Participant s RSUs to be subject to be subject to Section 5(a)(ii) above.  The Company retains sole discretion to determine whether Participant s RSUs are subject to Section 5(a)(ii) and to alter its determination should additional or different facts become known to the Company. 
    
  6. No Acquired Rights. By participating in the Plan, and accepting the grant of RSUs under this Agreement, the Participant agrees and acknowledges that: 

(a) the Plan is discretionary in nature and that the Company can amend, cancel or terminate the Plan at any time;    
    
  (b) the grant of the RSU under the Plan is voluntary and occasional, and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of any RSUs or benefits in lieu of any RSUs, even if RSUs have been granted repeatedly in the past; 
    
  (c) the value of the RSUs is an extraordinary item of compensation, which is outside the scope of the Participant s Qualified Status contract, if any; 
    
  (d) the RSUs are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating any termination, severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments; 
    
  (e) the future value of the shares subject to the RSUs is unknown and cannot be predicted with any certainty; 
    
  (f) the Participant shall not make any claim or have any entitlement to compensation or damages in connection with the termination of the RSUs or diminution in value of the RSUs under the Plan, and Participant hereby irrevocably releases the Company and all of its Affiliates from any such claim or entitlement; and 
    
  (g) the Participant s participation in the Plan shall not create a right to employment or further employment with or to provide services as a director, consultant or advisor to the Company or any of its Affiliates, and shall not interfere with or limit the ability of the Company to terminate the Participant s employment relationship or other services at any time, with or without cause. 
    
  (h) no terms of any contract of employment or consultancy (or similar agreement) of the Participant shall be affected in any way by the Plan, this Agreement or related instruments, except as otherwise expressly provided herein. 
    
  7. No Rights of a Shareholder. The Participant shall not have any rights as a shareholder of the Company until the Shares in question have been registered in the Company s register of shareholders. 
    
  8. Unfunded Obligation; Unsecured Creditor. The RSUs granted hereunder are an unfunded obligation of the Company and no assets or shares of the Company shall be set segregated or earmarked by the Company in respect of any RSUs awarded hereunder. The RSUs granted hereunder shall be an unsecured obligation of the Company and the rights and interests of the Participant herein shall make him only a general, unsecured creditor of the Company. 
    
  9. Legend on Certificates. Any Shares issued or transferred to the Participant pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which such Shares are listed, any applicable Federal or state laws or relevant securities laws of the jurisdiction of the domicile of the Participant or to ensure compliance with any additional transfer restrictions that may be in effect from time to time, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any certificates representing such Shares to make appropriate reference to such restrictions. 
    
  10. Transferability Restrictions.  
    
  (a) RSUs/Underlying Shares. RSUs may not be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any purported assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance not permitted by this Section 10 shall be void and unenforceable against the Company and/or any applicable Constituent Company.   
    
  (b) Except in the event of Death, Disability and any further specific provision set out in the French Commercial Code with respect to a minimum holding period, from and after the definitive date of their release, none of the Shares issued pursuant hereto may be transferred or disposed of in any fashion for a period of two years  . 
    
  (c) In addition, no Shares issued pursuant hereto may be transferred or disposed of within the periods as set forth in Article L. 225-197-1, I of the French Commercial Code, as the same may be amended, modified or replaced while the Participant holds such Shares.  Such periods are initially:  

(i) the ten trading days on the New York Stock Exchange (or such other principle exchange on which the Shares may then be traded) ( Trading Days ) preceding and the ten Trading Days following the date on which the Company s consolidated financial statements or, if no such financial statements are published,  the annual accounts, are published; and  
  (ii) at all times management of the Company is aware of non-public information, which, if published, might have a significant effect on the price of the Shares, and the ten Trading Days following the publication of such information. 
    
  (d) Any Shares issued or transferred to the Participant shall be subject to compliance by the Participant with such policies as the Committee or the Company may deem advisable from time to time, including, without limitation, the policies relating to certain minimum share ownership requirements.  Such policies shall be binding upon the permitted respective legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the Participant.  The Company shall give notice of any such additional or modified terms and restrictions applicable to Shares delivered or deliverable under the Agreement to the holder of the RSUs and/or the Shares so delivered, as appropriate, pursuant to the provisions of Section 11 or, if a valid address does not appear to exist in the personnel records, to the last address known by the Company of such holder. Notice of any such changes may be provided electronically, including, without limitation, by publication of such changes to a central website to which any holder of the RSUs or Shares issued therefrom has access.  
    
  (e) [Reserved.] 
    
  (f) The Company may take such action(s) as it, in its sole discretion, deems necessary, desirable or appropriate to prevent the sale or transfer of Shares during the periods referenced in this Section 10. 
    
  (g) The Participant acknowledges that he/she is solely responsible for, and represents and warrants that he or she will at all times, comply with the restrictions on disposition and transfer of Shares contained in this Section 10.  Participant further acknowledges that neither the Company nor any Constituent Companies shall be liable or responsible in the event the Participant does not receive any tax benefits or treatment that may be desired in connection with such restrictions, whether as a result of Participant s failure to comply with such restrictions or otherwise.   
    
  11. Notices. Any notice to be given under this Agreement shall be delivered personally, or sent by certified, registered or express mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the Company in care of its General Counsel at 
    
  Accenture Ltd 
  50 W. San Fernando Street 
  San Jose, CA 95113 
  Telecopy: (408) 817-2799 
  Attn: General Counsel 
    
  (or, if different, the then current principal business address of the duly appointed General Counsel of the Company) and to the Participant at the address appearing in the personnel records of the Company for the Participant or to either party at such other address as either party hereto may hereafter designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be deemed effective upon receipt thereof by the addressee. 
    
  12. Withholding. The Participant may be required to pay to the Company or any Affiliate and the Company or any Affiliate shall have the right and is hereby authorized to withhold from any compensation or other amount otherwise payable to the Participant, applicable withholding taxes and social security contributions required to be withheld with respect to the RSUs, this Agreement or any issuance or transfer under this Agreement or under the Plan and to take such action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations for the payment of such taxes and social security contributions. 
    
  13. Choice of Law, Forum and Jurisdiction. The Participant acknowledges that, (a) as of the date hereof, the Shares underlying the RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder are publicly traded in the State of New York on the New York Stock Exchange, (b) the Company and its Affiliates have significant operations and numbers of employees in New York, and (c) the Company, for the purpose of ensuring predictability and uniformity of results, desires that there be a common body of law interpreting and enforcing this Agreement.  The Parties acknowledge and agree that the State of New York has a reasonable relationship to this Agreement and the subject matter hereof and to the Parties  relationship to one another.  The Parties therefore agree that:    THE INTERPRETATION, PERFORMANCE     AND ENFORCEMENT OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF     NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.  THE PARTICIPANT AND COMPANY EACH AGREE THAT ANY DISPUTE OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT OF OR CONCERNING THE AGREEMENT SHALL BE EXCLUSIVELY BROUGHT IN, AND RESOLVED EXCLUSIVELY BY, THE COURTS IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.  THE  

PARTICIPANT AND THE COMPANY EACH CONSENT TO THE JURISIDICTION OF THE COURTS IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK. 
    
  14.  Severability.  This Agreement shall be enforceable to the fullest extent allowed by law.  In the event that a court or appointed arbitrator holds any provision of this Agreement to be invalid or unenforceable, then, if allowed by law, the provision shall be reduced, modified or otherwise conformed to the relevant law, judgment or determination to the degree necessary to render it valid and enforceable without affecting the rest of this Agreement.  Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be deemed severable from the remainder of this Agreement, and the remaining provisions contained in this Agreement shall be construed to preserve to the maximum permissible extent the intent and purposes of this Agreement.  Any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. 
    
  15. RSUs Subject to Plan. By entering into this Agreement, the Participant agrees and acknowledges that the Participant has received and read a copy of the Plan. All RSUs are subject to the Plan. In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Plan will govern and prevail. 
    
  16. Rule 16b-3. The grant of the RSUs to the Participant hereunder is intended to be exempt from the provisions of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the  Exchange Act ) pursuant to Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act. 
    
  17. Signature in Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.  
    
  18. Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. 
    
  19. Data Protection. The Participant consents to the processing (including international transfer) of personal data as set out in Appendix A for the purposes specified therein. 
    
  20. Administration; Consent. In order to manage compliance with the terms of this Agreement, Common Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement may, at the sole discretion of the Company, be registered in the name of the nominee for the holder of the Common Shares and/or held in the custody of a custodian until otherwise determined by the Company. To that end, by acceptance of this Agreement, the holder hereby appoints the Company, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact to assign, endorse and register for transfer into such nominee s name or deliver to such custodian any such Common Shares, granting to such attorneys, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever that such attorney or attorneys may deem necessary, advisable or appropriate to carry out fully the intent of this paragraph as such person might or could do personally. It is understood and agreed by each holder of the Common Shares delivered under the Agreement that this appointment, empowerment and authorization may be exercised by the aforementioned persons with respect to all Common Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement of such holder, and held of record by another person or entity, for the period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the later of the date the Agreement is terminated and the date that is ten years following the last date Common Shares are delivered pursuant to this Agreement. The form of the custody agreement and the identity of the custodian and/or nominee shall be as determined from time to time by the Company in its sole discretion. A holder of Common Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement acknowledges and agrees that the Company may refuse to register the transfer of and enter stop transfer orders against the transfer of such Common Shares except for transfers deemed by it in its sole discretion to be in compliance with the terms of this Agreement. Each holder of Common Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement agrees to execute such additional documents and take such other actions as may be deemed reasonably necessary or desirable by the Company to effect the provisions of the Agreement, as in effect from time to time. Each holder of Common Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement acknowledges and agrees that the Company may impose a legend on any document relating to or Common Shares issued or issuable pursuant to this Agreement conspicuously referencing the restrictions applicable to such Common Shares. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement effective as of the date set forth above. 
    
                   ACCENTURE LTD 
      By: 

Douglas G. Scrivner 
      General Counsel and Secretary 

PARTICIPANT 
      By: 

Name: 

Address: 

APPENDIX A 
  DATA PROTECTION PROVISION 
           (a) 
    By participating in the Plan or accepting any rights granted under it, the Participant consents to the collection and processing by the Company and its Affiliates of personal data relating to the Participant by the Company and its Affiliates so that they can fulfill their obligations and exercise their rights under the Plan, issue certificates (if any), statements and communications relating to the Plan and generally administer and manage the Plan, including keeping records of participation levels from time to time.  Any such processing shall be in accordance with the purposes and provisions of this data protection provision.  References in this provision to the Company and its Affiliates include the Participant s employer. 
     These data will include data: 
  (i)    already held in the Participant s records such as the Participant s name and address, ID number, payroll number, length of service and whether the Participant works full-time or part time; 
  (ii)    collected upon the Participant accepting the rights granted under the Plan (if applicable); and 
  (iii)    subsequently collected by the Company or any of its Affiliates in relation to the Participant s continued participation in the Plan, for example, data about shares offered or received, purchased or sold under the Plan from time to time and other appropriate financial and other data about the Participant and his or her participation in the Plan (e.g., the date on which the shares were granted, termination of employment and the reasons of termination of employment or retirement of the Participant). 
           (b) 
    This consent is in addition to and does not affect any previous consent provided by the Participant to the Company or its Affiliates. 
              (c) 
    In particular, the Participant expressly consents to the transfer of personal data about the Participant as described in paragraph (a) above by the Company and its Affiliates.  Data may be transferred not only within the country in which the Participant is based from time to time or within the EU or the European Economic Area, but also worldwide, to other employees and officers of the Company and its Affiliates and to the following third parties for the purposes described in paragraph (a) above: 
     (i)    Plan administrators, auditors, brokers, agents and contractors of, and third party service providers to, the Company or its Affiliates such as printers and mail houses engaged to print or distribute notices or communications about the Plan; 
  (ii)    regulators, tax authorities, stock or security exchanges and other supervisory, regulatory, governmental or public bodies as required by law; 
  (iii)    actual or proposed merger partners or proposed assignees of, or those taking or proposing to take security over, the business or assets of the Company or its Affiliates and their agents and contractors;  
  (iv)    other third parties to whom the Company or its Affiliates may need to communicate/transfer the data in connection with the administration of the Plan, under a duty of confidentiality to the Company and its Affiliates; and  
  (v)    the Participant s family members, physicians, heirs, legatees and others associated with the Participant in connection with the Plan. 
  Not all countries, where the personal data may be transferred to, have an equal level of data protection as in the EU or the European Economic Area.  Countries to which data are transferred include the USA and Bermuda. 
  All national and international transfer of personal data is only done in order to fulfill the obligations and rights of the Company and/or its Affiliates under the Plan.  

The Participant has the right to be informed whether the Company or its Affiliates hold personal data about the Participant and, to the extent they do so, to have access to those personal data at no charge and require them to be corrected if they are inaccurate or to be destroyed if the Participant wishes to withdraw his or her consent.  The Participant is entitled to all the other rights provided for by applicable data protection law, including those detailed in any applicable documentation or guidelines provided to the Participant by the Company or its Affiliates in the past.  More detailed information is available to the Participant by contacting the appropriate local data protection officer in the country in which the Participant is based from time to time.  If the Participant has a complaint regarding the manner in which personal information relating to the Participant is dealt with, the Participant should contact the appropriate local data protection officer referred to above. 
           (d) 
    The processing (including transfer) of data described above is essential for the administration and operation of the Plan.  Therefore, in cases where the Participant wishes to participate in the Plan, it is essential that his/her personal data are processed in the manner described above.  At any time the Participant may withdraw his or her consent. 

EXHIBIT 1-A 
    
  Determination of RSU Vesting pursuant to Section 1(c) of the Agreement 
    
           1. 
    Determine Percentile Rank (PR) for each of the Comparison Companies in accordance with the following formula: 
       
  PR = (PB/N)(100) 
    
  Where: 
    
  PB = ordinal position from the lowest TSR among the Comparison Companies. The Comparison Company with the lowest TSR is the first position from the bottom. 
    
  N = number of Comparison Companies in the computation.  
    
           2. 
    After determining and ordering the PR for each Comparison Company, if the TSR of the Company is equal to the TSR of any other Comparison Company (rounded to the nearest 0.01), then the Company s PR shall equal the PR of such Comparison Company. If the Company s TSR is not equal to the TSR of any other Comparison Company, then the Company s PR shall be determined by interpolation, using the TSRs and PRs of the Comparison Companies having the next highest and next lowest TSRs in comparison to the Company s TSR. If there is no Comparison Company with a TSR that is higher than the Company s TSR, then the Company s PR shall be 100. If there is no Comparison Company with a TSR that is lower than the Company s TSR, then the Company s PR shall be equal to the PR of the lowest ranked Comparison Company. 
       
           3. 
    Upon determining the PR of the Company, the percentage of maximum RSUs granted under the Agreement that vest shall be determined as follows: 
       
                   Performance level 
    Company PR 
  (measured as a percentile) 
    Percentage of maximum RSUs granted 
  under the Agreement that vest 
      Maximum 
    The Company is ranked at or above the 75th percentile. 
         25% 
      Target 
    The Company is ranked at the 60th percentile. 
    16.67% 
      Threshold 
    The Company is ranked at the 40th percentile. 
    8.33% 
        
    The Company is ranked below the 40th percentile. 
         0% 

Performance Between Threshold and Target  . If the Company s Percentile Rank is between  Threshold  and  Target,  the percentage of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement that shall vest pursuant to Section 1(c) of the Agreement shall equal (a) 8.33% of the RSUs granted under the Agreement plus (b) an additional percentage of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement, which percentage shall be determined in accordance with the following formula: 

where, PR equals the Percentile Rank of the Company, as determined above.  
    
  Performance Between Target and Maximum  . If the Company s Percentile Rank is between  Target  and  Maximum,  the percentage of the RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement that shall vest pursuant to Section 1(c) of the Agreement shall equal (a) 16.67% of the RSUs granted under the Agreement plus (b) an additional percentage, not to exceed 8.33%, of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement, which percentage shall be determined in accordance with the following formula: 

where, PR equals the Percentile Rank of the Company, as determined above. 

EXHIBIT 1-B 
    
  Determination of RSU Vesting pursuant to Section 1(d) of the Agreement 
    
           1. 
    Determine the Company actual percentage of Target Cumulative Operating Income  ( AP ) by dividing the Company s Actual Cumulative Operating Income by the Target Cumulative Operating Income and expressing the result as a percentage (the resulting percentage being referred to as the  Performance Rate  or  PR ). 
       
           2. 
    Upon determining the Company s Performance Rate, the percentage of maximum RSUs granted under the Agreement that vest shall be determined as follows: 

Performance Between Threshold and Target  . If the Company s Performance Rate is between  Threshold  and  Target,  the percentage of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement that shall vest pursuant to Section 1(d) of the Agreement shall equal (a) 25% of the maximum RSUs granted under the Agreement, plus (b) an additional percentage of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement, which percentage shall be determined in accordance with the following formula: 

where, PR equals the Company s Performance Rate, as determined above.  

Performance Between Target and Maximum  . If the Company s Performance Rate is between  Target  and  Maximum,  the percentage of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement that shall vest pursuant to Section 1(d) of the Agreement shall equal (a) 50% of the maximum RSUs granted under the Agreement, plus (b) an additional percentage, not to exceed 25%, of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement, which percentage shall be determined in accordance with the following formula: 

where, PR equals the Company s Performance Rate, as determined above.  

</EX-10.23>

<EX-10.24>
 3
 acn831201210-kexhibit1024.htm
 FORM OF KEY EXECUTIVE PERFORMANCE-BASED AWARD RSU AGREEMENT - FRANCE

ACN.8.31.2012 10-K Exhibit 10.24 

Exhibit 10.24 
  ACCENTURE LTD 
  2001 SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN  
  AND FRENCH RSU SUBPLAN 
    
  RESTRICTED SHARE UNIT AGREEMENT 
    
  (Key Executive Performance-Based Award   France [___year___]) 
    
  Accenture plc, a company incorporated under the laws of Ireland, as successor to Accenture Ltd  (the  Company ), hereby grants, as of [___date___],        to [___Name___] (the  Participant ), a total number of [___number___] Restricted Share Units ( RSUs ), on the terms and conditions set forth herein. This grant is made pursuant to the terms of the Accenture Ltd 2001 Share Incentive Plan, as amended by the Subplan for Restricted Share Units in France (as so amended, the  Plan ), which Plan, as further amended from time to time, are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Restricted Share Unit Agreement.  Each RSU represents the unfunded, unsecured right of the Participant to receive a Share on the date(s) specified herein subject to the conditions specified herein.  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. 
    
  The terms and conditions of the RSUs granted hereunder, to the extent not controlled by the terms and conditions contained in the Plan, are as follows: 
    
  1. Performance-Based Vesting.  
    
  (a) Performance Period. The RSUs shall vest, if at all, based upon the attainment of specific pre-established financial performance objectives (the  Performance Objectives ) by the Company for the period commencing on [___date___] and ending on [___date + [3 years]___] (the  Performance Period ), as set forth in this Section 1. 
    
  (b) Service Relationship. Except as provided in Section 2(a), RSUs that are unvested as of the termination of the Participant s full-time employment status with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (collectively, the  Constituent Companies ) shall be immediately forfeited as of such termination and the Company shall have no further obligations with respect thereto. Such employment status shall hereinafter be referred to in this Agreement as  Qualified Status.  
    
  (c) Total Shareholder Return.  
    
  (i) Up to twenty-five percent (25%) of the RSUs granted to the Participant pursuant to this Agreement shall vest, if at all, based upon the Total Shareholder Return for the Company, as compared to the Comparison Companies, for the Performance Period in the manner set forth on Exhibit 1-A hereto. 
    
  (ii) For purposes of this Agreement, Total Shareholder Return with respect to the Company and each of the Comparison Companies shall mean the quotient of (A) the Fair Market Value of the stock of the particular company or index on [___end date___], divided by (B) the Fair Market Value of the stock of such company or index on [___start date___]. For purposes of calculating a company s Total Shareholder Return, the Fair Market Value of the stock of any company on [___end date___] shall be adjusted to reflect any and all cash, stock or in-kind dividends paid on the stock of such company during the Performance Period as follows: the Fair Market Value of the stock of the company on [___end date___] shall be multiplied by the sum of (Y) one (1) plus (Z) the number of whole and fractional shares of the stock of the company that (i) were actually received in respect of one share (or such greater number of shares that are deemed to have been held at such time pursuant to this clause (c)(ii)) by way of a stock dividend and (ii) would otherwise result assuming each cash dividend paid on the stock (or fair market value of any in-kind dividend, as determined by the Committee) of the company during the Performance Period was used to purchase additional whole and/or fractional shares of stock of the company on the record date of such dividend based on the fair market value of the stock of the company (as determined by the Committee), or with respect to the Company, the Fair Market Value of a Share, on the record date of such dividend. 
    
  (iii) If at any time prior to the completion of the Performance Period, a Comparison Company ceases to be a publicly-traded company, merges or consolidates with another company, is acquired or disposes of a significant portion of its  

businesses as they exist on the date of this Agreement or experiences any other extraordinary event as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may remove such Comparison Company or ratably adjust the calculation of the Total Shareholder Return with respect to such Comparison Company. 
    
  (iv) For purposes of this Agreement: (i)  Comparison Companies  shall mean Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (ACS), Automated Data Processing (ADP), Cap Gemini S.A., Cisco Systems, Inc. (CSCO), Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC), EMC Corporation (EMC),  Hewitt Associates, Inc. (HEW), Hewlett-Packard Company (HPQ), International Business Machines Corporation (IBM),  Lockheed Martin Corporation  (LMT), Microsoft Corporation (MSFT), Oracle Corporation (ORCL), SAIC Inc. (SAI), Sapient Corporation (SAPE), Xerox Corp (XRX) and the S P 500 Index (SPX); and (ii) the  Fair Market Value  of (A) a share of stock of a company on a given date shall mean the average of the high and low trading price of the stock of the company, as reported on the principal exchange on which the stock of such company is traded (or, if the stock is not traded on an exchange but is quoted on Nasdaq or a successor quotation system, the average of the mean between the closing representative bid and asked prices for the stock) and (B) for the S P 500 Index on a given date shall mean the average of the high and low values for such index as reported in the Wall Street Journal (or, if the S P 500 Index is not reported in the Wall Street Journal, in such other reliable source as the Company may determine), in each case for the ten (10) consecutive trading days immediately preceding such date. 
    
  (d) Operating Income Growth Rate. Up to 75% of the RSUs granted to the Participant pursuant to this Agreement shall vest, if at all, based upon the achievement of Operating Income targets by the Company for the Performance Period, as set forth on Exhibit 1-B hereto. For purposes of this Agreement: 
    
   Target Cumulative Operating Income  shall mean the aggregate of the  Operating Income Plan,  as approved by the Committee, for each of the Company s [___number___] fiscal years during the Performance Period.  Within a reasonable period following the availability of all relevant data (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion), the Committee will approve the Company s operating income plan for each applicable fiscal year during the Performance Period (each an  Operating Income Plan ).  
    
   Actual Cumulative Operating Income  shall mean the aggregate of the Company s actual operating income for the Company s three fiscal years during the Performance Period, as determined from the Company s final, audited financial statements for such fiscal years.   
    
  In the event that, as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee and due to a required change in generally accepted accounting practices, a change in the accounting methods of the Company or an extraordinary and material event in the Company s business (each of the foregoing events being referred to herein as a  Material Event ), Actual Cumulative Operating Income determined after the occurrence of a Material Event would be materially different as a result of the occurrence thereof, the Committee may instruct the Company to determine Actual Cumulative Operating Income for such period, solely for purposes of this Agreement, as if the Material Event had not happened or was not effective. Such instruction may be limited to apply to fiscal periods in which the applicable Operating Income Plan did not account for the occurrence of the Material Event. 
    
  (e) Certification. No RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder shall vest in accordance with Sections 1(c) or (d) unless and until the Committee makes a certification in writing with respect to the achievement of the Performance Objectives for the Performance Period. Following the end of the Performance Period, the Committee shall review and determine whether the Performance Objectives have been met within a reasonable period following the availability of all data necessary to determine whether the Performance Objectives have been achieved, and not later than [___date___], shall certify such finding to the Company and to the Participant. 
    
  2. Termination of Employment.  
    
  (a) Termination as a result of death, Disability, or Involuntary Termination. Notwithstanding anything in Section 1 to the contrary, the RSUs granted hereunder shall vest upon the termination of the Participant s Qualified Status as a result of death, Disability, Involuntary Termination, all as follows: 

(i) Termination as a result of death or Disability. In the event the Participant s Qualified Status is terminated during the Performance Period as a result of death or Disability, the RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder shall remain outstanding throughout the Performance Period and shall vest, if at all, in accordance with Sections 1(c) or (d) upon completion of the Performance Period.  In the event of the death of the Participant during the Performance Period, the Participant s heirs can, within a period of six months as from the date of death, request the release (upon the completion of the Performance Period) of the Shares underlying any vested Restricted Share Units. 
    
  (ii) Involuntary Termination. In the event the Participant s Qualified Status is terminated during the Performance Period due to an Involuntary Termination, the RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder shall remain outstanding throughout the Performance Period. Upon completion of the Performance Period, the Participant shall vest in the number of RSUs granted hereunder equal to the product of (i) the aggregate number of RSUs that would otherwise vest upon completion of the Performance Period in accordance with Sections 1(c) or (d), multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the whole number of months that have elapsed from the commencement of the Performance Period through the effective date of the Participant s Involuntary Termination and the denominator of which is [___number of months in Performance Period___]. 
    
  (iii) Specified Age Attainment. Not applicable. 
    
  (b) Termination for reasons other than death, Disability, Involuntary Termination. In the event the Participant s Qualified Status is terminated during the Performance Period for any reason other than death, Disability, Involuntary Termination, the RSUs granted hereunder shall be immediately forfeited as of such termination and the Company shall have no further obligation with respect thereto. 
    
  (c) Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meaning specified below: 
    
  (i)  Cause  shall mean  cause  as defined in any employment or consultancy agreement (or similar agreement) or in any letter of appointment then in effect between the Participant and the Company or any Affiliate or if not defined therein (it being the intent that the definition of  Cause  shall include, at a minimum, the acts set forth below), or if there shall be no such agreement, to the extent legally permissible, (a) the Participant s embezzlement, misappropriation of corporate funds, or other material acts of dishonesty, (b) the Participant s commission or conviction of any felony, or of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to any felony or misdemeanor, (c) engagement in any activity that the Participant knows or should know could harm the business or reputation of the Company or an Affiliate, (d) the Participant s material failure to adhere to the Company s or an Affiliate s corporate codes, policies or procedures as in effect from time to time, (e) the Participant s continued failure to meet minimum performance standards as determined by the Company or an Affiliate, (f) the Participant s violation of any statutory, contractual, or common law duty or obligation to the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the duty of loyalty, or (g) the Participant s material breach of any confidentiality or non-competition covenant entered into between the Participant and the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the covenants contained in this Agreement. The determination of the existence of Cause shall be made by the Company in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive for purposes of this Agreement. 
    
  (ii)   Disability  shall mean a termination which results from a determination of  disability ( constat d inaptitude ) as that term is defined by French law (article 341-4 of the French social security Code). 
    
  (iii)  Involuntary Termination  shall mean termination of Qualified Status, as applicable, with the Constituent Companies (other than for Cause) which is not voluntary and which is acknowledged as being  involuntary  in writing by an authorized officer of the Company. 
    
  3. Form and Timing of Issuance or Transfer.  
    
  (a) Vested RSUs. Distribution of RSUs shall be made hereunder only in respect of vested RSUs, and shall be made in Shares on a one-for-one basis. 
    
  (b) Distribution Date. Vested RSUs, if any, shall be distributed to the Participant in the manner set forth in Section 3(a) on the date the Committee makes a certification in writing with respect to the achievement of the Performance Objectives for the Performance Period as provided in Section 1(e)  . 

(c) Upon any transfer or issuance of Shares underlying RSUs, the Participant shall certify in a manner acceptable to the Company that the Participant is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan. 
    
  4. Changes to Capital or Business Structure.  The grant of the RSUs shall not in any way affect the right or power of the Company to make adjustments, reclassification, or changes in its capital or business structure, or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
    
  5. Cancellation and Rescission of Shares 
    
  (a) In the following circumstances, the Participant shall, to the extent legally permitted, transfer to the Company     the Shares that have been issued or transferred under this Agreement (without regard to whether the Participant continues to own or control such previously delivered Shares) and the Participant shall bear all costs of issuance or transfer, including any transfer taxes that may be payable in connection with any transfer: 
    
  (i) the Participant s Qualified Status with the Constituent Companies is terminated for Cause, or 
    
  (ii) the Participant engages in any of the Restricted Activities defined in subsection (b) below. 
    
  (b) The Participant shall not, for a period of twelve months following the termination of the Participant s Qualified Status with the Constituent Companies engage in any Restricted Activities, which for the purposes of this Agreement include the following: 
    
  (i) associate (including, but not limited to, association as a sole proprietor, owner, employer, partner, principal, investor, joint venturer, shareholder, associate, employee, member, consultant, contractor or otherwise) with any Competitive Enterprise or any of the affiliates, related entities, successors, or assigns of any Competitive Enterprise; provided, however, that with respect to the equity of any Competitive Enterprise which is or becomes publicly traded, the Participant s ownership as a passive investor of less than 1% of the outstanding publicly traded stock of a Competitive Enterprise shall not be deemed a violation of this Section 5(b)(i); 
    
  (ii) directly or indirectly (A) solicit, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in soliciting, any Client or Prospective Client for the purpose of performing or providing any Consulting Services; (B) perform or provide, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in performing or providing, Consulting Services for any Client or Prospective Client; (C) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship and/or agreement between the Company or any Affiliates and a Client or Prospective Client; or 
    
  (iii) directly or indirectly, solicit, employ or retain, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in soliciting, employing or retaining, any employee or other agent of the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, any former employee or other agent of the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors who ceased working for the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors within an eighteen-month period before or after the date on which the Participant s Qualified Status with the Constituent Companies terminated. 
    
  (c) For purposes of this Agreement:  
    
  (i)  Client  shall mean any person, firm, corporation or other organization whatsoever for whom the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors provided services within a twelve-month period before the date on which the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminated, or about which the Participant learned confidential information within the twelve months prior to the date on which the Participant s Qualified Status with the Constituent Companies terminated. 
    
  (ii)  Competitive Enterprise  shall mean a business enterprise that engages in, or owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in, the performance of services of the type provided by the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors.   Competitive Enterprise  shall include, but not be limited to, the entities set forth on the list maintained by the Company on the myHoldings website, which list may be updated by the Company from time to time. 

(iii)  Consulting Services  shall mean the performance of any services of the type provided by the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors at any time, past, present or future. 
    
  (iv)  Prospective Client  shall mean any person, firm, corporation, or other organization whatsoever with whom the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors had any negotiations or discussions regarding the possible performance of services by the Company or any of its Affiliates or any of their predecessors within the twelve months prior to the date of the termination of the Participant s Qualified Status with the Constituent Companies. 
    
  (v)  solicit  shall mean to have any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner, to take or refrain from taking any action. 
    
  (d) If, during the twelve-month period following the termination of the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies, the Participant is presented with an opportunity that might involve participation in any Restricted Activity under 5(b)(i) above, Participant shall notify the Company in writing of the nature of the opportunity (the  Conflicting Activity ).  Following receipt of sufficient information concerning the Conflicting Activity, the Company will advise Participant in writing whether the Company considers the Participant s RSUs to be subject to be subject to Section 5(a)(ii) above.  The Company retains sole discretion to determine whether Participant s RSUs are subject to Section 5(a)(ii) and to alter its determination should additional or different facts become known to the Company. 
    
  6. No Acquired Rights. By participating in the Plan, and accepting the grant of RSUs under this Agreement, the Participant agrees and acknowledges that: 
    
  (a) the Plan is discretionary in nature and that the Company can amend, cancel or terminate the Plan at any time;    
    
  (b) the grant of the RSU under the Plan is voluntary and occasional, and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of any RSUs or benefits in lieu of any RSUs, even if RSUs have been granted repeatedly in the past; 
    
  (c) the value of the RSUs is an extraordinary item of compensation, which is outside the scope of the Participant s Qualified Status contract, if any; 
    
  (d) the RSUs are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating any termination, severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments; 
    
  (e) the future value of the shares subject to the RSUs is unknown and cannot be predicted with any certainty; 
    
  (f) the Participant shall not make any claim or have any entitlement to compensation or damages in connection with the termination of the RSUs or diminution in value of the RSUs under the Plan, and Participant hereby irrevocably releases the Company and all of its Affiliates from any such claim or entitlement; and 
    
  (g) the Participant s participation in the Plan shall not create a right to employment or further employment with or to provide services as a director, consultant or advisor to the Company or any of its Affiliates, and shall not interfere with or limit the ability of the Company to terminate the Participant s employment relationship or other services at any time, with or without cause. 
    
  (h) no terms of any contract of employment or consultancy (or similar agreement) of the Participant shall be affected in any way by the Plan, this Agreement or related instruments, except as otherwise expressly provided herein. 
    
  7. No Rights of a Shareholder. The Participant shall not have any rights as a shareholder of the Company until the Shares in question have been registered in the Company s register of shareholders. 
    
  8. Unfunded Obligation; Unsecured Creditor. The RSUs granted hereunder are an unfunded obligation of the Company and no assets or shares of the Company shall be set segregated or earmarked by the Company in respect of any RSUs  

awarded hereunder. The RSUs granted hereunder shall be an unsecured obligation of the Company and the rights and interests of the Participant herein shall make him only a general, unsecured creditor of the Company. 
    
  9. Legend on Certificates. Any Shares issued or transferred to the Participant pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which such Shares are listed, any applicable Federal or state laws or relevant securities laws of the jurisdiction of the domicile of the Participant or to ensure compliance with any additional transfer restrictions that may be in effect from time to time, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any certificates representing such Shares to make appropriate reference to such restrictions. 
    
  10. Transferability Restrictions.  
    
  (a) RSUs/Underlying Shares. RSUs may not be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any purported assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance not permitted by this Section 10 shall be void and unenforceable against the Company and/or any applicable Constituent Company.   
    
  (b) Except in the event of Death, Disability and any further specific provision set out in the French Commercial Code with respect to a minimum holding period, from and after the definitive date of their release, none of the Shares issued pursuant hereto may be transferred or disposed of in any fashion for a period of two years. 
    
  (c) In addition, no Shares issued pursuant hereto may be transferred or disposed of within the periods as set forth in Article L. 225-197-1, I of the French Commercial Code, as the same may be amended, modified or replaced while the Participant holds such Shares.  Such periods are initially:  
    
  (i) the ten trading days on the New York Stock Exchange (or such other principle exchange on which the Shares may then be traded) ( Trading Days ) preceding and the ten Trading Days following the date on which the Company s consolidated financial statements or, if no such financial statements are published,  the annual accounts, are published; and  
    
  (ii) at all times management of the Company is aware of non-public information, which, if published, might have a significant effect on the price of the Shares, and the ten Trading Days following the publication of such information. 
    
  (d) Any Shares issued or transferred to the Participant shall be subject to compliance by the Participant with such policies as the Committee or the Company may deem advisable from time to time, including, without limitation, the policies relating to certain minimum share ownership requirements.  Such policies shall be binding upon the permitted respective legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the Participant.  The Company shall give notice of any such additional or modified terms and restrictions applicable to Shares delivered or deliverable under the Agreement to the holder of the RSUs and/or the Shares so delivered, as appropriate, pursuant to the provisions of Section 11 or, if a valid address does not appear to exist in the personnel records, to the last address known by the Company of such holder. Notice of any such changes may be provided electronically, including, without limitation, by publication of such changes to a central website to which any holder of the RSUs or Shares issued therefrom has access.  
    
  (e) [Reserved.] 
    
  (f) The Company may take such action(s) as it, in its sole discretion, deems necessary, desirable or appropriate to prevent the sale or transfer of Shares during the periods referenced in this Section 10. 
    
  (g) The Participant acknowledges that he/she is solely responsible for, and represents and warrants that he or she will at all times, comply with the restrictions on disposition and transfer of Shares contained in this Section 10.  Participant further acknowledges that neither the Company nor any Constituent Companies shall be liable or responsible in the event the Participant does not receive any tax benefits or treatment that may be desired in connection with such restrictions, whether as a result of Participant s failure to comply with such restrictions or otherwise.   

11. Notices. Any notice to be given under this Agreement shall be delivered personally, or sent by certified, registered or express mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the Company in care of its General Counsel at 
    
  Accenture  
  50 W. San Fernando Street 
  San Jose, CA 95113 
  Telecopy: (408) 817-2799 
  Attn: General Counsel 
    
  (or, if different, the then current principal business address of the duly appointed General Counsel of the Company) and to the Participant at the address appearing in the personnel records of the Company for the Participant or to either party at such other address as either party hereto may hereafter designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be deemed effective upon receipt thereof by the addressee. 
    
  12. Withholding. The Participant may be required to pay to the Company or any Affiliate and the Company or any Affiliate shall have the right and is hereby authorized to withhold from any compensation or other amount otherwise payable to the Participant, applicable withholding taxes and social security contributions required to be withheld with respect to the RSUs, this Agreement or any issuance or transfer under this Agreement or under the Plan and to take such action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations for the payment of such taxes and social security contributions. 
    
  13. Choice of Law and Dispute Resolution  
    
  (a) THE INTERPRETATION, PERFORMANCE AND ENFORCEMENT OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW. 
    
  (b) Subject to paragraphs (c) through (g), any and all disputes which cannot be settled amicably, including any ancillary claims of any party, arising out of, relating to or in connection with the validity, negotiation, execution, interpretation, performance or non-performance and/or termination of this Agreement and any amendment thereto (including without limitation the validity, scope and enforceability of this arbitration provision) (each a  Dispute ) shall be finally settled by arbitration conducted by a single arbitrator in New York (or at such other place of arbitration as the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, acting as Plan Administrator, or any successor plan administrator, may approve) in accordance with the then-existing Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce ( ICC ), except that the parties may select an arbitrator who is a national of the same country as one of the parties.  If the parties to the dispute fail to agree on the selection of an arbitrator within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the request for arbitration, the ICC shall make the appointment.  The arbitrator shall be a lawyer and shall conduct the proceedings in the English language. 
    
  (c) Before the Company has filed a request for arbitration or a response under the Rules of Arbitration of the ICC (as the case may be), the Company may by notice in writing to the Participant require that all Disputes or a specific Dispute be heard by any court of law in accordance with paragraph (f) and, for the purposes of this paragraph (c), each party expressly consents to the application of paragraphs (d) and (e) to any such suit, action or proceeding.  If, at the time that the Company gives notice in accordance with this paragraph (c), arbitration has already been commenced in connection with a Dispute, that Dispute shall be withdrawn from arbitration. 
    
  (d) Either party may bring an action or proceeding in any court of law for the purpose of compelling a party to arbitrate, seeking temporary or preliminary relief in aid of an arbitration hereunder, and/or enforcing an arbitration award and/or in support of the arbitration as permitted by any applicable arbitration law and, for the purposes of this paragraph (d), each party expressly consents to the application of paragraphs (f) and (g) to any such suit, action or proceeding. 
    
  (e) Judgment on any award(s) rendered by the tribunal may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.    
    
  (f)    (i)      Each party hereby irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts located in New York, United States for the purpose of any suit, action or proceeding brought in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs  

(d) or (e).  The parties acknowledge that the forum designated by this paragraph (f) has a reasonable relation to this Agreement, and to the parties  relationship with one another. 
    
  (ii)    The parties hereby waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which they now or hereafter may have to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding brought in any court referred to in paragraph (f) (i) pursuant to paragraphs (d) or (e) and such parties agree not to plead or claim the same. 
    
  (g) The parties agree that if a suit, action or proceeding is brought under paragraphs (d) or (e) proof shall not be required that monetary damages for breach of the provisions of this Agreement would be difficult to calculate and that remedies at law would be inadequate, and they irrevocably appoint the General Counsel of the Company, c/o Accenture, 50 W. San Fernando Street, San Jose, CA, 95113 (or, if different, the then-current principal business address of the duly appointed General Counsel of the Company) as such party s agent for service of process in connection with any such action or proceeding and agree that service of process upon such agent, who shall promptly advise such party of any such service of process, shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon the party in any such action or proceeding.     15.    Severability  .  This Agreement shall be enforceable to the fullest extent allowed by law.  In the event that a court or appointed arbitrator holds any provision of this Agreement to be invalid or unenforceable, then, if allowed by law, the provision shall be reduced, modified or otherwise conformed to the relevant law, judgment or determination to the degree necessary to render it valid and enforceable without affecting the rest of this Agreement.  Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be deemed severable from the remainder of this Agreement, and the remaining provisions contained in this Agreement shall be construed to preserve to the maximum permissible extent the intent and purposes of this Agreement.  Any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. 
    
  14.  Severability.  This Agreement shall be enforceable to the fullest extent allowed by law.  In the event that a court or appointed arbitrator holds any provision of this Agreement to be invalid or unenforceable, then, if allowed by law, the provision shall be reduced, modified or otherwise conformed to the relevant law, judgment or determination to the degree necessary to render it valid and enforceable without affecting the rest of this Agreement.  Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be deemed severable from the remainder of this Agreement, and the remaining provisions contained in this Agreement shall be construed to preserve to the maximum permissible extent the intent and purposes of this Agreement.  Any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. 
    
  15. RSUs Subject to Plan. By entering into this Agreement, the Participant agrees and acknowledges that the Participant has received and read a copy of the Plan. All RSUs are subject to the Plan. In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Plan will govern and prevail. 
    
  16. Rule 16b-3. The grant of the RSUs to the Participant hereunder is intended to be exempt from the provisions of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the  Exchange Act ) pursuant to Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act. 
    
  17. Signature in Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.  
    
  18. Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. 
    
  19. Data Protection. The Participant consents to the processing (including international transfer) of personal data as set out in Appendix A for the purposes specified therein. 
    
  20. Administration; Consent. In order to manage compliance with the terms of this Agreement, Common Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement may, at the sole discretion of the Company, be registered in the name of the nominee for the holder of the Common Shares and/or held in the custody of a custodian until otherwise determined by the Company. To that end, by acceptance of this Agreement, the holder hereby appoints the Company, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, his  

or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact to assign, endorse and register for transfer into such nominee s name or deliver to such custodian any such Common Shares, granting to such attorneys, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever that such attorney or attorneys may deem necessary, advisable or appropriate to carry out fully the intent of this paragraph as such person might or could do personally. It is understood and agreed by each holder of the Common Shares delivered under the Agreement that this appointment, empowerment and authorization may be exercised by the aforementioned persons with respect to all Common Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement of such holder, and held of record by another person or entity, for the period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the later of the date the Agreement is terminated and the date that is ten years following the last date Common Shares are delivered pursuant to this Agreement. The form of the custody agreement and the identity of the custodian and/or nominee shall be as determined from time to time by the Company in its sole discretion. A holder of Common Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement acknowledges and agrees that the Company may refuse to register the transfer of and enter stop transfer orders against the transfer of such Common Shares except for transfers deemed by it in its sole discretion to be in compliance with the terms of this Agreement. Each holder of Common Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement agrees to execute such additional documents and take such other actions as may be deemed reasonably necessary or desirable by the Company to effect the provisions of the Agreement, as in effect from time to time. Each holder of Common Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement acknowledges and agrees that the Company may impose a legend on any document relating to or Common Shares issued or issuable pursuant to this Agreement conspicuously referencing the restrictions applicable to such Common Shares. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement effective as of the date set forth above. 
    
                         ACCENTURE PLC 
      By: 

Douglas G. Scrivner 
      General Counsel and Secretary 

PARTICIPANT 
      By: 

Name: 

Address: 

APPENDIX A 
  DATA PROTECTION PROVISION 
           (a) 
    By participating in the Plan or accepting any rights granted under it, the Participant consents to the collection and processing by the Company and its Affiliates of personal data relating to the Participant by the Company and its Affiliates so that they can fulfill their obligations and exercise their rights under the Plan, issue certificates (if any), statements and communications relating to the Plan and generally administer and manage the Plan, including keeping records of participation levels from time to time.  Any such processing shall be in accordance with the purposes and provisions of this data protection provision.  References in this provision to the Company and its Affiliates include the Participant s employer. 
     These data will include data: 
  (i) already held in the Participant s records such as the Participant s name and address, ID number, payroll number, length of service and whether the Participant works full-time or part time; 
  (ii) collected upon the Participant accepting the rights granted under the Plan (if applicable); and 
  (iii) subsequently collected by the Company or any of its Affiliates in relation to the Participant s continued participation in the Plan, for example, data about shares offered or received, purchased or sold under the Plan from time to time and other appropriate financial and other data about the Participant and his or her participation in the Plan (e.g., the date on which the shares were granted, termination of employment and the reasons of termination of employment or retirement of the Participant). 
           (b) 
    This consent is in addition to and does not affect any previous consent provided by the Participant to the Company or its Affiliates. 
              (c) 
    In particular, the Participant expressly consents to the transfer of personal data about the Participant as described in paragraph (a) above by the Company and its Affiliates.  Data may be transferred not only within the country in which the Participant is based from time to time or within the EU or the European Economic Area, but also worldwide, to other employees and officers of the Company and its Affiliates and to the following third parties for the purposes described in paragraph (a) above: 
     (i) Plan administrators, auditors, brokers, agents and contractors of, and third party service providers to, the Company or its Affiliates such as printers and mail houses engaged to print or distribute notices or communications about the Plan; 
  (ii) regulators, tax authorities, stock or security exchanges and other supervisory, regulatory, governmental or public bodies as required by law; 
  (iii) actual or proposed merger partners or proposed assignees of, or those taking or proposing to take security over, the business or assets of the Company or its Affiliates and their agents and contractors;  
  (iv) other third parties to whom the Company or its Affiliates may need to communicate/transfer the data in connection with the administration of the Plan, under a duty of confidentiality to the Company and its Affiliates; and  
  (v) the Participant s family members, physicians, heirs, legatees and others associated with the Participant in connection with the Plan. 
  Not all countries, where the personal data may be transferred to, have an equal level of data protection as in the EU or the European Economic Area.  Countries to which data are transferred include the USA. 

All national and international transfer of personal data is only done in order to fulfill the obligations and rights of the Company and/or its Affiliates under the Plan.  
  The Participant has the right to be informed whether the Company or its Affiliates hold personal data about the Participant and, to the extent they do so, to have access to those personal data at no charge and require them to be corrected if they are inaccurate or to be destroyed if the Participant wishes to withdraw his or her consent.  The Participant is entitled to all the other rights provided for by applicable data protection law, including those detailed in any applicable documentation or guidelines provided to the Participant by the Company or its Affiliates in the past.  More detailed information is available to the Participant by contacting the appropriate local data protection officer in the country in which the Participant is based from time to time.  If the Participant has a complaint regarding the manner in which personal information relating to the Participant is dealt with, the Participant should contact the appropriate local data protection officer referred to above. 
           (d) 
    The processing (including transfer) of data described above is essential for the administration and operation of the Plan.  Therefore, in cases where the Participant wishes to participate in the Plan, it is essential that his/her personal data are processed in the manner described above.  At any time the Participant may withdraw his or her consent. 

EXHIBIT 1-A 
    
  Determination of RSU Vesting pursuant to Section 1(c) of the Agreement 
    
           1. 
    Determine Percentile Rank (PR) for each of the Comparison Companies in accordance with the following formula: 
       
  PR = (PB/N)(100) 
    
  Where: 
    
  PB = ordinal position from the lowest TSR among the Comparison Companies. The Comparison Company with the lowest TSR is the first position from the bottom. 
    
  N = number of Comparison Companies in the computation.  
    
           2. 
    After determining and ordering the PR for each Comparison Company, if the TSR of the Company is equal to the TSR of any other Comparison Company (rounded to the nearest 0.01), then the Company s PR shall equal the PR of such Comparison Company. If the Company s TSR is not equal to the TSR of any other Comparison Company, then the Company s PR shall be determined by interpolation, using the TSRs and PRs of the Comparison Companies having the next highest and next lowest TSRs in comparison to the Company s TSR. If there is no Comparison Company with a TSR that is higher than the Company s TSR, then the Company s PR shall be 100. If there is no Comparison Company with a TSR that is lower than the Company s TSR, then the Company s PR shall be equal to the PR of the lowest ranked Comparison Company. 
       
           3. 
    Upon determining the PR of the Company, the percentage of maximum RSUs granted under the Agreement that vest shall be determined as follows: 
       
                       Performance level 
    Company PR 
  (measured as a percentile) 
    Percentage of maximum RSUs granted 
  under the Agreement that vest 
      Maximum 
    The Company is ranked at or above the 75th percentile. 
        25% 

Target 
    The Company is ranked at the 60th percentile. 
    16.67 
    % 
      
      Threshold 
    The Company is ranked at the 40th percentile. 
    8.33 
    % 

The Company is ranked below the 40th percentile. 
    0 
    % 

Performance Between Threshold and Target  . If the Company s Percentile Rank is between  Threshold  and  Target,  the percentage of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement that shall vest pursuant to Section 1(c) of the Agreement shall equal (a) 8.33% of the RSUs granted under the Agreement plus (b) an additional percentage of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement, which percentage shall be determined in accordance with the following formula: 

where, PR equals the Percentile Rank of the Company, as determined above.  

Performance Between Target and Maximum  . If the Company s Percentile Rank is between  Target  and  Maximum,  the percentage of the RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement that shall vest pursuant to Section 1(c) of the Agreement shall equal (a) 16.67% of the RSUs granted under the Agreement plus (b) an additional percentage, not to exceed 8.33%, of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement, which percentage shall be determined in accordance with the following formula: 

where, PR equals the Percentile Rank of the Company, as determined above. 

EXHIBIT 1-B 
    
  Determination of RSU Vesting pursuant to Section 1(d) of the Agreement 
    
           1. 
    Determine the Company actual percentage of Target Cumulative Operating Income  ( AP ) by dividing the Company s Actual Cumulative Operating Income by the Target Cumulative Operating Income and expressing the result as a percentage (the resulting percentage being referred to as the  Performance Rate  or  PR ). 
       
           2. 
    Upon determining the Company s Performance Rate, the percentage of maximum RSUs granted under the Agreement that vest shall be determined as follows: 

Performance Between Threshold and Target  . If the Company s Performance Rate is between  Threshold  and  Target,  the percentage of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement that shall vest pursuant to Section 1(d) of the Agreement shall equal (a) 25% of the maximum RSUs granted under the Agreement, plus (b) an additional percentage of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement, which percentage shall be determined in accordance with the following formula: 

where, PR equals the Company s Performance Rate, as determined above.  

Performance Between Target and Maximum  . If the Company s Performance Rate is between  Target  and  Maximum,  the percentage of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement that shall vest pursuant to Section 1(d) of the Agreement shall equal (a) 50% of the maximum RSUs granted under the Agreement, plus (b) an additional percentage, not to exceed 25%, of the maximum RSUs granted to the Participant under the Agreement, which percentage shall be determined in accordance with the following formula: 

where, PR equals the Company s Performance Rate, as determined above.  

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.28>
 4
 acn831201210-kexhibit1028.htm
 FORM OF SENIOR OFFICER PERFORMANCE EQUITY AWARD RSU AGREEMENT - FRANCE

ACN.8.31.2012 10-K Exhibit 10.28 

Exhibit 10.28 
  SENIOR OFFICER PERFORMANCE EQUITY   
  RESTRICTED SHARE UNIT AGREEMENT  
  FOR THE FRENCH RSU SUBPLAN 
  (Fiscal [__year__])    Terms and Conditions 
  1.  Grant of RSUs  . 
  (a)    The Company hereby grants the number of restricted share units ( RSUs ) set forth in the Essential Grant Terms (as defined below) to the Participant set forth in the Essential Grant Terms, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.  This grant is made pursuant to the terms of the Accenture Ltd 2001 Share Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) as amended by the Subplan for Restricted Share Units in France (the  French RSU Subplan ), which Plan and French RSU Subplan, as amended from time to time, are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Restricted Share Unit Agreement.  Each RSU represents the unfunded, unsecured right of the Participant to receive a Share on the date(s) specified herein subject to the conditions specified herein.  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings ascribed to them in the Plan and the French RSU Subplan. 
  (b)    This grant of RSUs is subject to the Senior Officer Performance Equity  Restricted Share Unit Agreement Essential Grant Terms (the  Essential Grant Terms ) attached hereto and the Senior Officer Performance Equity  Restricted Share Unit Agreement for the French RSU Subplan Terms and Conditions which together constitute the  Senior Officer Performance Equity  Restricted Share Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ). 
  2.      Vesting Schedule  .   
  (a)    Subject to the Participant s continued employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates (collectively, the  Constituent Companies ), the RSUs shall vest pursuant to the vesting schedule set forth in the Essential Grant Terms (as modified by this Agreement) until such RSUs are 100% vested.  Upon the Participant s termination of employment for any reason, any unvested RSUs shall immediately terminate, and no further Shares shall be issued or transferred under Section 3 of this Agreement in respect of such unvested RSUs;   provided  ,   however  , that if (i) the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to the Participant s death or Disability, the RSUs granted hereunder shall vest with respect to 100% of the RSUs held by the Participant on the date of such termination of employment, or (ii) the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to an Involuntary Termination, a number of RSUs granted hereunder shall vest on the date of such Involuntary Termination equal to the total number of RSUs granted hereunder multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the whole number of months that have elapsed after the date of grant of this Agreement through the date of such Involuntary Termination and the denominator of which is [___number of months___], less the number (if any) of RSUs which vested before the date of such Involuntary Termination. 
  (b)    For purposes of this Agreement: 
  (i)     Cause  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(d) below. 
  (ii)     Disability  shall mean a termination which results from a determination of  disability ( constat d inaptitude ) as that term is defined by French law. 

(iii)     Involuntary Termination  shall mean termination of employment with the Constituent Companies (other than for  Cause ) which is not voluntary and which is acknowledged as being  involuntary  in writing by an authorized officer of the Company.  
  3.      Form and Timing of Issuance or Transfer  . 
  (a)      In General  .  The Company shall issue or cause there to be transferred ( Release ) to the Participant that whole number of Shares as set forth in the Essential Grant Terms, until all of the whole Shares underlying the vested RSUs have been issued or transferred;   provided   that on each such delivery date, a number of RSUs equal to the number of Shares issued or transferred to the Participant shall be extinguished.  Shares underlying vested RSUs shall not be Released before the second anniversary of the Award Date, except in cases of Death or Disability.  
  (b)      Death  .  Notwithstanding Section 3(a) of this Agreement, if the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to the Participant s death, the Company shall at the request of his or her heirs, provided such request is made within six months as from the date of death, issue or cause there to be transferred a number of Shares equal to the aggregate number of RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder (rounded down to the next whole Share) as soon as practicable following such termination of employment, at which time a number of RSUs equal to the number of Shares issued or transferred to his or her estate shall be extinguished.    
  (c)      Disability  .  Notwithstanding Section 3(a) of this Agreement, if the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to the Participant s Disability, the Company shall issue or cause there to be transferred a number of Shares equal to the aggregate number of RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder (rounded down to the next whole Share) as soon as practicable following such termination of employment, at which time a number of RSUs equal to the number of Shares issued or transferred shall be extinguished. 
  (d)    Notwithstanding Sections 3(a) and 3(b) and 3(c) of this Agreement, upon the Participant s termination of employment with the Constituent Companies for Cause or to the extent that the Participant otherwise takes such action that would constitute Cause, to the extent legally permissible, any outstanding RSUs shall immediately terminate.  For purposes of this Agreement,  Cause  shall mean  cause  as defined in any employment or consultancy agreement (or similar agreement) or in any letter of appointment then in effect between the Participant and the Company or any Affiliate or if not defined therein (it being the intent that the definition of  Cause  shall include, at a minimum, the acts set forth below), or if there shall be no such agreement, to the extent legally permissible, (a) the Participant s embezzlement, misappropriation of corporate funds, or other material acts of dishonesty, (b) the Participant s commission or conviction of any felony, or of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to any felony or misdemeanor, (c) engagement in any activity that the Participant knows or should know could harm the business or reputation of the Company or an Affiliate, (d) the Participant s material failure to adhere to the Company s or an Affiliate s corporate codes, policies or procedures as in effect from time to time, (e) the Participant s continued failure to meet minimum performance standards as determined by the Company or an Affiliate, (f) the Participant s violation of any statutory, contractual, or common law duty or obligation to the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the duty of loyalty, or (g) the Participant s material breach of any confidentiality or non-competition covenant entered into between the Participant and the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the covenants contained in this Agreement.  The determination of the existence of Cause shall be made by the Company in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive for purposes of this Agreement. 
  (e)    Upon any transfer or issuance of Shares underlying RSUs, the Participant shall certify in a manner acceptable to the Company that the Participant is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Plan and the French RSU Subplan.   

4.      Cancellation and Rescission of RSUs and Shares Underlying RSUs  . 
  (a)    In the following circumstances, the Company may require the Participant to, to the extent legally permitted, transfer to the Company up to a number of Shares equal to the number of Shares that have been issued or transferred under this Agreement (without regard to whether the Participant continues to own or control such previously delivered Shares) and the Participant shall bear all costs of transfer, including any transfer taxes that may be payable in connection with the transfer: 
  (i)    the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies is terminated for Cause, or 
  (ii)    the Participant engages in any of the Restricted Activities defined in subsection (b) below. 
  (b)    The Participant shall not, for a period of twelve months following the termination of the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies engage in any Restricted Activities, which for purposes of this Agreement include the following: 
  (i)    associate (including, but not limited to, association as a sole proprietor, owner, employer, partner, principal, investor, joint venturer, shareholder, associate, employee, member, consultant, contractor or otherwise) with any Competitive Enterprise or any of the affiliates, related entities, successors, or assigns of any Competitive Enterprise;   provided  ,   however  , that with respect to the equity of any Competitive Enterprise which is or becomes publicly traded, the Participant s ownership as a passive investor of less than 1% of the outstanding publicly traded stock of a Competitive Enterprise shall not be deemed a violation of this Section 4(b)(i); 
  (ii)    directly or indirectly (A) solicit, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in soliciting, any Client or Prospective Client for the purpose of performing or providing any Consulting Services; or (B) perform or provide, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in performing or providing, Consulting Services for any Client or Prospective Client; or (C) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship and/or agreement between the Company or any Affiliates and a Client or Prospective Client; or 
  (iii)    directly or indirectly, solicit, employ or retain, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in soliciting, employing or retaining, any employee or other agent of the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, any former employee or other agent of the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors who ceased working for the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors within an eighteen-month period before or after the date on which the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminated.  
  (c)    For purposes of this Agreement: 
  (i)     Client  shall mean any person, firm, corporation or other organization whatsoever for whom the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors provided services within a twelve-month period before the date on which the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminated, or about which the Participant learned confidential information within the twelve months prior to the date on which the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminated. 
  (ii)     Competitive Enterprise  shall mean a business enterprise that engages in, or owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in, the performance of services of the type provided by the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors.   Competitive Enterprise  shall include, but not be limited to, the entities set forth on the list maintained by the Company on the myHoldings website, which list may be updated by the Company from time to time. 

(iii)     Consulting Services  shall mean the performance of any services of the type provided by the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors at any time, past, present or future. 
  (iv)     Prospective Client  shall mean any person, firm, corporation, or other organization whatsoever with whom the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors have had any negotiations or discussions regarding the possible performance of services by the Company or any of its Affiliates or any of their predecessors within the twelve months prior to the date of the Participant s termination of employment with the Constituent Companies. 
  (v)     solicit  shall mean to have any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner, to take or refrain from taking any action. 
  (d)    If during the twelve month period following the termination of the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies, the Participant is presented with an opportunity that might involve participation in any Restricted Activity under Section 4(b)(i) above, Participant shall notify the Company in writing of the nature of the opportunity (the  Conflicting Activity ).  Following receipt of sufficient information concerning the Conflicting Activity, the Company will advise Participant in writing whether the Company considers the Participant s RSUs to be subject to Section 4(a)(ii) above.  The Company retains sole discretion to determine whether Participant s RSUs are subject to Section 4(a)(ii) and to alter its determination should additional or different facts become known to the Company. 
  5.      No Right to Continued Employment  .  Neither the Plan nor the French RSU Subplan nor this Agreement shall be construed as giving the Participant the right to be retained in the employ of, or in any consulting relationship to, the Company or any Affiliate.  Further, the Company or an Affiliate may at any time dismiss the Participant from employment or discontinue any consulting relationship, free from any liability or any claim under the Plan, the French RSU Subplan or this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein. 
  6.      Data Protection  .  The Participant consents to the processing (including international transfer) of personal data as set out in Appendix A for the purposes specified therein    
  7.      Issuance of the shares  .  As a condition to the issuance or transfer of the Shares underlying the RSUs granted hereunder, the Participant shall, to the degree reasonably required by the Company, execute and return to the Company a counterpart of this Agreement in accordance with the instructions provided by the Company.  
  8.      No Acquired Rights  .  In participating in the French RSU Subplan, the Participant acknowledges and accepts that the Board has the power to amend or terminate the French RSU Subplan at any time except that a modification which could impact on the participants rights or entitlements would be subject to French requirements, and that the opportunity given to the Participant to participate in the French RSU Subplan is entirely at the discretion of the Committee and does not obligate the Company or any of its Affiliates to offer such participation in the future (whether on the same or different terms).  The Participant further acknowledges and accepts that such Participant s participation in the French RSU Subplan is outside the terms of the Participant s contract of employment with the Constituent Companies and is therefore not to be considered part of any normal or expected compensation and that the termination of the Participant s employment under any circumstances whatsoever will give the Participant no claim or right of action against the Company or its Affiliates in respect of any loss of rights under this Agreement or the French RSU Subplan that may arise as a result of such termination of employment.   
  9.      No Rights of a Shareholder  .  The Participant shall not have any rights as a shareholder of the Company until the Shares in question have been registered in the Company s register of shareholders. 
  10.      Legend on Certificates  .  Any Shares issued or transferred to the Participant pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan and the French RSU Subplan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which such Shares are listed, any applicable  

Federal or state laws or relevant securities laws of the jurisdiction of the domicile of the Participant or to ensure compliance with any additional transfer restrictions that may be in effect from time to time, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any certificates representing such Shares to make appropriate reference to such restrictions. 
  11.      Transferability Restrictions   RSUs/Underlying Shares  .   
  (a)    RSUs may not be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any purported assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance not permitted by this Section 11 shall be void and unenforceable against the Company and any applicable Constituent Company.   
  (b)    Except in the event of Death, Disability and any further specific provision set out in the French Commercial Code with respect to a minimum holding period, from and after the definitive date of their Release, none of the Shares issued pursuant hereto may be transferred or disposed of in any fashion for a period of two years. 
  (c)    In addition, no Shares issued pursuant hereto may be transferred or disposed of within the periods as set forth in Article L. 225-197-1, I of the French Commercial Code, as the same may be amended, modified or replaced while the Participant holds such Shares.  Such periods are initially:  
  (i)    the ten trading days on the New York Stock Exchange (or such other principle exchange on which the Shares may then be traded) ( Trading Days ) preceding and the ten Trading Days following the date on which the Company s consolidated financial statements or, if no such financial statements are published,  the annual accounts, are published; and  
  (ii)    at all times management of the Company is aware of non-public information, which, if published, might have a significant effect on the price of the Shares, and the ten Trading Days following the publication of such information. 
  (d)    Any Shares issued or transferred to the Participant shall be subject to compliance by the Participant with such policies as the Committee or the Company may deem advisable from time to time, including, without limitation, the policies relating to certain minimum share ownership requirements.  Such policies shall be binding upon the permitted respective legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the Participant.  The Company shall give notice of any such additional or modified terms and restrictions applicable to Shares delivered or deliverable under the Agreement to the holder of the RSUs and/or the Shares so delivered, as appropriate, pursuant to the provisions of Section 12 or, if a valid address does not appear to exist in the personnel records, to the last address known by the Company of such holder. Notice of any such changes may be provided electronically, including, without limitation, by publication of such changes to a central website to which any holder of the RSUs or Shares issued therefrom has access.  
  (e)     [Reserved.] 
  (f)    The Company may take such action(s) as it, in its sole discretion, deems necessary, desirable or appropriate to prevent the sale or transfer of Shares during the periods referenced in this Section 11. 
  (g)    The Participant acknowledges that he/she is solely responsible for, and represents and warrants that he or she will at all times, comply with the restrictions on disposition and transfer of Shares contained in this Section 11.  Participant further acknowledges that neither the Company nor any Constituent Companies shall be liable or responsible in the event the Participant does not receive any tax benefits or treatment that may be desired in connection with such restrictions, whether as a result of Participant s failure to comply with such restrictions or otherwise.   

12.      Notices  .  Any notice to be given under this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company in care of its General Counsel at: 
  Accenture Ltd  50 W. San Fernando Street  San Jose, CA 95113  Telecopy: (408)817-2799  Attn:  General Counsel 
  (or, if different, the then current principal business address of the duly appointed General Counsel of the Company) and to the Participant at the address appearing in the personnel records of the Company for the Participant or to either party at such other address as either party hereto may hereafter designate in writing to the other.  Any such notice shall be deemed effective upon receipt thereof by the addressee. 
  13.      Withholding  .  The Participant may be required to pay to the Company or any Affiliate and the Company or any Affiliate shall have the right and is hereby authorized to withhold from any compensation or other amount otherwise payable to the Participant, applicable withholding taxes and social security contributions required to be withheld with respect to the RSUs, this Agreement or any issuance or transfer under this Agreement or under the French RSU Subplan and to take such action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations for the payment of such taxes and social security contributions. 
  14.      Choice of Law, Forum and Jurisdiction  .  The Participant acknowledges that, (a) as of the date hereof, the Shares underlying the RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder are publicly traded in the State of New York on the New York Stock Exchange, (b) the Company and its Affiliates have significant operations and numbers of employees in New York, and (c) the Company, for the purpose of ensuring predictability and uniformity of results, desires that there be a common body of law interpreting and enforcing this Agreement.  The Parties acknowledge and agree that the State of New York has a reasonable relationship to this Agreement and the subject matter hereof and to the Parties  relationship to one another.  The Parties therefor agree that:   THE INTERPRETATION, PERFORMANCE AND ENFORCEMENT OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.  THE PARTICIPANT AND COMPANY EACH AGREE THAT ANY DISPUTE OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT OF OR CONCERNING THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE EXCLUSIVELY BROUGHT IN, AND RESOLVED EXCLUSIVELY BY, THE COURTS IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.  THE PARTICIPANT AND THE COMPANY EACH CONSENT TO THE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK. 
  15.      RSUs Subject to Plan and the French RSU Subplan  .  By entering into this Agreement, the Participant agrees and acknowledges that the Participant has received and read a copy of the Plan and the French RSU Subplan.  All RSUs are subject to the Plan and the French RSU Subplan.  In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Plan and the French RSU Subplan, the applicable terms and provisions of the French RSU Subplan will govern and prevail. 
  16.      Signature in Counterparts  .  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. 
  17.      Administration; Consent  .  In order to manage compliance with the terms of this Agreement, Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement may, at the sole discretion of the Company, be registered in the name of the nominee for the holder of the Shares and/or held in the custody of a custodian until otherwise determined by the Company.  To that end, by acceptance of this Agreement, the holder hereby appoints the Company, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact to assign, endorse and register for transfer into such nominee s name or deliver to such custodian any such Shares, granting to such attorneys, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever that such attorney or attorneys may deem necessary, advisable or appropriate to carry out fully the intent of this paragraph as such person  

might or could do personally.  It is understood and agreed by each holder of the Shares delivered under the Agreement that this appointment, empowerment and authorization may be exercised by the aforementioned persons with respect to all Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement of such holder, and held of record by another person or entity, for the period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the later of the date the Agreement is terminated and  the date that is ten years following the last date Shares are delivered pursuant to this Agreement.  The form of the custody agreement and the identity of the custodian and/or nominee shall be as determined from time to time by the Company in its sole discretion.  A holder of Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement acknowledges and agrees that the Company may refuse to register the transfer of and enter stop transfer orders against the transfer of such Shares except for transfers deemed by it in its sole discretion to be in compliance with the terms of this Agreement.  Each holder of Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement agrees to execute such additional documents and take such other actions as may be deemed reasonably necessary or desirable by the Company to effect the provisions of the Agreement, as in effect from time to time.  Each holder of Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement acknowledges and agrees that the Company may impose a legend on any document relating to or Shares issued or issuable pursuant to this Agreement conspicuously referencing the restrictions applicable to such Shares.  
  18.      Severability.   This Agreement shall be enforceable to the fullest extent allowed by law.  In the event that the court or appointed arbitrator holds any provision of this Agreement to be invalid or unenforceable, then, if allowed by law, that provision shall be reduced, modified or otherwise conformed to the relevant law, judgment or determination to the degree necessary to render it valid and enforceable without affecting the rest of this Agreement.  Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be deemed severable from the remainder of this Agreement, and the remaining provisions contained in this Agreement shall be construed to preserve to the maximum permissible extent the intent and purposes of this Agreement.  Any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.  
  19.      Entire Agreement  .  This Agreement, including the Plan and French RSU Subplan, as provided therein, contains the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter therein and supersedes all prior oral and written agreements between the parties pertaining to such matters. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement effective as of the Date of Grant set forth on the attached Essential Grant Terms. 
  ACCENTURE LTD 
  By:  
  Douglas G. Scrivner  General Counsel, Secretary and Compliance Officer 
     
  PARTICIPANT 
  _______________________________ 
  Signature  
           
  _______________________________ 
  Print Name     
    
  _______________________________ 
  Date     
    
  _______________________________ 
  Employee ID 

APPENDIX A 
  DATA PROTECTION PROVISION 
           (a) 
    By participating in the French RSU Subplan or accepting any rights granted under it, the Participant consents to the collection and processing by the Company and its Affiliates of personal data relating to the Participant by the Company and its Affiliates so that they can fulfill their obligations and exercise their rights under the French RSU Subplan, issue certificates (if any), statements and communications relating to the French RSU Subplan and generally administer and manage the French RSU Subplan, including keeping records of participation levels from time to time.  Any such processing shall be in accordance with the purposes and provisions of this data protection provision.  References in this provision to the Company and its Affiliates include the Participant s employer. 
     These data will include data: 
           (i) 
    already held in the Participant s records such as the Participant s name and address, ID number, payroll number, length of service and whether the Participant works full-time or part time; 
              (ii) 
    collected upon the Participant accepting the rights granted under the French RSU Subplan (if applicable); and 
              (iii) 
    subsequently collected by the Company or any of its Affiliates in relation to the Participant s continued participation in the French RSU Subplan, for example, data about shares offered or received, purchased or sold under the French RSU Subplan from time to time and other appropriate financial and other data about the Participant and his or her participation in the French RSU Subplan (e.g., the date on which the shares were granted, termination of employment and the reasons of termination of employment or retirement of the Participant). 
              (b) 
    This consent is in addition to and does not affect any previous consent provided by the Participant to the Company or its Affiliates. 
              (c) 
    In particular, the Participant expressly consents to the transfer of personal data about the Participant as described in paragraph (a) above by the Company and its Affiliates.  Data may be transferred not only within the country in which the Participant is based from time to time or within the EU or the European Economic Area, but also worldwide, to other employees and officers of the Company and its Affiliates and to the following third parties for the purposes described in paragraph (a) above: 
              (i) 
    French RSU Subplan administrators, auditors, brokers, agents and contractors of, and third party service providers to, the Company or its Affiliates such as printers and mail houses engaged to print or distribute notices or communications about the French RSU Subplan; 
              (ii) 
    regulators, tax authorities, stock or security exchanges and other supervisory, regulatory, governmental or public bodies as required by law; 
              (iii) 
    actual or proposed merger partners or proposed assignees of, or those taking or proposing to take security over, the business or assets of the Company or its Affiliates and their agents and contractors;  
              (iv) 
    other third parties to whom the Company or its Affiliates may need to communicate/transfer the data in connection with the administration of the French RSU Subplan, under a duty of confidentiality to the Company and its Affiliates; and  

(v) 
    the Participant s family members, physicians, heirs, legatees and others associated with the Participant in connection with the French RSU Subplan. 
     Not all countries, where the personal data may be transferred to, have an equal level of data protection as in the EU or the European Economic Area.  Countries to which data are transferred include the USA and Bermuda. 
  All national and international transfer of personal data is only done in order to fulfill the obligations and rights of the Company and/or its Affiliates under the French RSU Subplan.  
  The Participant has the right to be informed whether the Company or its Affiliates hold personal data about the Participant and, to the extent they do so, to have access to those personal data at no charge and require them to be corrected if they are inaccurate or to be destroyed if the Participant wishes to withdraw his or her consent.  The Participant is entitled to all the other rights provided for by applicable data protection law, including those detailed in any applicable documentation or guidelines provided to the Participant by the Company or its Affiliates in the past.  More detailed information is available to the Participant by contacting the appropriate local data protection officer in the country in which the Participant is based from time to time.  If the Participant has a complaint regarding the manner in which personal information relating to the Participant is dealt with, the Participant should contact the appropriate local data protection officer referred to above. 
           (d) 
    The processing (including transfer) of data described above is essential for the administration and operation of the French RSU Subplan.  Therefore, in cases where the Participant wishes to participate in the French RSU Subplan, it is essential that his/her personal data are processed in the manner described above.  At any time the Participant may withdraw his or her consent. 

</EX-10.28>

<EX-10.29>
 5
 acn831201210-kexhibit1029.htm
 FORM OF SENIOR OFFICER PERFORMANCE EQUITY AWARD RSU AGREEMENT - FRANCE

ACN.8.31.2012 10-K Exhibit 10.29 

Exhibit 10.29 
  SENIOR OFFICER PERFORMANCE EQUITY   
  RESTRICTED SHARE UNIT AGREEMENT  
  FOR THE FRENCH RSU SUBPLAN 
  (Fiscal [___year___])    Terms and Conditions 
  1.  Grant of RSUs  . 
  (a)    Accenture plc, as successor to Accenture Ltd (the  Company ) hereby grants the number of restricted share units ( RSUs ) set forth in the Essential Grant Terms (as defined below) to the Participant set forth in the Essential Grant Terms, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.  This grant is made pursuant to the terms of the Accenture Ltd 2001 Share Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) as amended by the Subplan for Restricted Share Units in France (the  French RSU Subplan ), which Plan and French RSU Subplan, as amended from time to time, are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Restricted Share Unit Agreement.  Each RSU represents the unfunded, unsecured right of the Participant to receive a Share on the date(s) specified herein subject to the conditions specified herein.  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings ascribed to them in the Plan and the French RSU Subplan. 
  (b)    This grant of RSUs is subject to the Senior Officer Performance Equity  Restricted Share Unit Agreement Essential Grant Terms (the  Essential Grant Terms ) attached hereto and the Senior Officer Performance Equity  Restricted Share Unit Agreement for the French RSU Subplan Terms and Conditions which together constitute the  Senior Officer Performance Equity  Restricted Share Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ). 
  2.      Vesting Schedule  .   
  (a)    Subject to the Participant s continued employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates (collectively, the  Constituent Companies ), the RSUs shall vest pursuant to the vesting schedule set forth in the Essential Grant Terms (as modified by this Agreement) until such RSUs are 100% vested.  Upon the Participant s termination of employment for any reason, any unvested RSUs shall immediately terminate, and no further Shares shall be issued or transferred under Section 3 of this Agreement in respect of such unvested RSUs;   provided  ,   however  , that if (i) the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to the Participant s death or Disability, the RSUs granted hereunder shall vest with respect to 100% of the RSUs held by the Participant on the date of such termination of employment, or (ii) the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to an Involuntary Termination, a number of RSUs granted hereunder shall vest on the date of such Involuntary Termination equal to the total number of RSUs granted hereunder multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the whole number of months that have elapsed after the date of grant of this Agreement through the date of such Involuntary Termination and the denominator of which is [___number of months___], less the number (if any) of RSUs which vested before the date of such Involuntary Termination. 
  (b)    For purposes of this Agreement: 
  (i)     Cause  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(d) below. 
  (ii)     Disability  shall mean a termination which results from a determination of  disability ( constat d inaptitude ) as that term is defined by French law. 

(iii)     Involuntary Termination  shall mean termination of employment with the Constituent Companies (other than for  Cause ) which is not voluntary and which is acknowledged as being  involuntary  in writing by an authorized officer of the Company.  
  3.      Form and Timing of Issuance or Transfer  . 
  (a)      In General  .  The Company shall issue or cause there to be transferred ( Release ) to the Participant that whole number of Shares as set forth in the Essential Grant Terms, until all of the whole Shares underlying the vested RSUs have been issued or transferred;   provided   that on each such delivery date, a number of RSUs equal to the number of Shares issued or transferred to the Participant shall be extinguished.  Shares underlying vested RSUs shall not be Released before the second anniversary of the Award Date, except in cases of Death or Disability.  
  (b)      Death  .  Notwithstanding Section 3(a) of this Agreement, if the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to the Participant s death, the Company shall at the request of his or her heirs, provided such request is made within six months as from the date of death, issue or cause there to be transferred a number of Shares equal to the aggregate number of RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder (rounded down to the next whole Share) as soon as practicable following such termination of employment, at which time a number of RSUs equal to the number of Shares issued or transferred to his or her estate shall be extinguished.    
  (c)      Disability  .  Notwithstanding Section 3(a) of this Agreement, if the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to the Participant s Disability, the Company shall issue or cause there to be transferred a number of Shares equal to the aggregate number of RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder (rounded down to the next whole Share) as soon as practicable following such termination of employment, at which time a number of RSUs equal to the number of Shares issued or transferred shall be extinguished. 
  (d)    Notwithstanding Sections 3(a) and 3(b) and 3(c) of this Agreement, upon the Participant s termination of employment with the Constituent Companies for Cause or to the extent that the Participant otherwise takes such action that would constitute Cause, to the extent legally permissible, any outstanding RSUs shall immediately terminate.  For purposes of this Agreement,  Cause  shall mean  cause  as defined in any employment or consultancy agreement (or similar agreement) or in any letter of appointment then in effect between the Participant and the Company or any Affiliate or if not defined therein (it being the intent that the definition of  Cause  shall include, at a minimum, the acts set forth below), or if there shall be no such agreement, to the extent legally permissible, (a) the Participant s embezzlement, misappropriation of corporate funds, or other material acts of dishonesty, (b) the Participant s commission or conviction of any felony, or of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to any felony or misdemeanor, (c) engagement in any activity that the Participant knows or should know could harm the business or reputation of the Company or an Affiliate, (d) the Participant s material failure to adhere to the Company s or an Affiliate s corporate codes, policies or procedures as in effect from time to time, (e) the Participant s continued failure to meet minimum performance standards as determined by the Company or an Affiliate, (f) the Participant s violation of any statutory, contractual, or common law duty or obligation to the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the duty of loyalty, or (g) the Participant s material breach of any confidentiality or non-competition covenant entered into between the Participant and the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the covenants contained in this Agreement.  The determination of the existence of Cause shall be made by the Company in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive for purposes of this Agreement. 
  (e)    Upon any transfer or issuance of Shares underlying RSUs, the Participant shall certify in a manner acceptable to the Company that the Participant is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Plan and the French RSU Subplan.   

4.      Cancellation and Rescission of RSUs and Shares Underlying RSUs  . 
  (a)    In the following circumstances, the Company may require the Participant to, to the extent legally permitted, transfer to the Company up to a number of Shares equal to the number of Shares that have been issued or transferred under this Agreement (without regard to whether the Participant continues to own or control such previously delivered Shares) and the Participant shall bear all costs of transfer, including any transfer taxes that may be payable in connection with the transfer: 
  (i)    the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies is terminated for Cause, or 
  (ii)    the Participant engages in any of the Restricted Activities defined in subsection (b) below. 
  (b)    The Participant shall not, for a period of twelve months following the termination of the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies engage in any Restricted Activities, which for purposes of this Agreement include the following: 
  (i)    associate (including, but not limited to, association as a sole proprietor, owner, employer, partner, principal, investor, joint venturer, shareholder, associate, employee, member, consultant, contractor or otherwise) with any Competitive Enterprise or any of the affiliates, related entities, successors, or assigns of any Competitive Enterprise;   provided  ,   however  , that with respect to the equity of any Competitive Enterprise which is or becomes publicly traded, the Participant s ownership as a passive investor of less than 1% of the outstanding publicly traded stock of a Competitive Enterprise shall not be deemed a violation of this Section 4(b)(i); 
  (ii)    directly or indirectly (A)     solicit, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in soliciting, any Client or Prospective Client for the purpose of performing or providing any Consulting Services; or (B) perform or provide, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in performing or providing, Consulting Services for any Client or Prospective Client; or (C) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship and/or agreement between the Company or any Affiliates and a Client or Prospective Client; or 
  (iii)    directly or indirectly, solicit, employ or retain, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in soliciting, employing or retaining, any employee or other agent of the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, any former employee or other agent of the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors who ceased working for the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors within an eighteen-month period before or after the date on which the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminated.  
  (c)    For purposes of this Agreement: 
  (i)     Client  shall mean any person, firm, corporation or other organization whatsoever for whom the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors provided services within a twelve-month period before the date on which the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminated, or about which the Participant learned confidential information within the twelve months prior to the date on which the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminated. 

(ii)     Competitive Enterprise  shall mean a business enterprise that engages in, or owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in, the performance of services of the type provided by the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors.   Competitive Enterprise  shall include, but not be limited to, the entities set forth on the list maintained by the Company on the myHoldings website, which list may be updated by the Company from time to time. 
  (iii)     Consulting Services  shall mean the performance of any services of the type provided by the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors at any time, past, present or future. 
  (iv)     Prospective Client  shall mean any person, firm, corporation, or other organization whatsoever with whom the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors have had any negotiations or discussions regarding the possible performance of services by the Company or any of its Affiliates or any of their predecessors within the twelve months prior to the date of the Participant s termination of employment with the Constituent Companies. 
  (v)     solicit  shall mean to have any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner, to take or refrain from taking any action. 
  (d)    If during the twelve month period following the termination of the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies, the Participant is presented with an opportunity that might involve participation in any Restricted Activity under Section 4(b)(i) above, Participant shall notify the Company in writing of the nature of the opportunity (the  Conflicting Activity ).  Following receipt of sufficient information concerning the Conflicting Activity, the Company will advise Participant in writing whether the Company considers the Participant s RSUs to be subject to Section 4(a)(ii) above.  The Company retains sole discretion to determine whether Participant s RSUs are subject to Section 4(a)(ii) and to alter its determination should additional or different facts become known to the Company. 
  5.      No Right to Continued Employment  .  Neither the Plan nor the French RSU Subplan nor this Agreement shall be construed as giving the Participant the right to be retained in the employ of, or in any consulting relationship to, the Company or any Affiliate.  Further, the Company or an Affiliate may at any time dismiss the Participant from employment or discontinue any consulting relationship, free from any liability or any claim under the Plan, the French RSU Subplan or this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein. 
  6.      Data Protection  .  The Participant consents to the processing (including international transfer) of personal data as set out in Appendix A for the purposes specified therein    
  7.      Issuance of the shares  .  As a condition to the issuance or transfer of the Shares underlying the RSUs granted hereunder, the Participant shall, to the degree reasonably required by the Company, execute and return to the Company a counterpart of this Agreement in accordance with the instructions provided by the Company.  
  8.      No Acquired Rights  .  In participating in the French RSU Subplan, the Participant acknowledges and accepts that the Board has the power to amend or terminate the French RSU Subplan at any time except that a modification which could impact on the participants rights or entitlements would be subject to French requirements, and that the opportunity given to the Participant to participate in the French RSU Subplan is entirely at the discretion of the Committee and does not obligate the Company or any of its Affiliates to offer such participation in the future (whether on the same or different terms).  The Participant further acknowledges and accepts that such Participant s participation in the French RSU Subplan is outside the terms of the Participant s contract of employment with the Constituent Companies and is therefore not to be considered part of any normal or expected compensation and that the termination of the Participant s employment under any circumstances whatsoever will give the Participant no claim or right of action against the Company or its Affiliates in respect of any loss of rights under this Agreement or the French RSU Subplan that may arise as a result of such termination of employment.   

9.      No Rights of a Shareholder  .  The Participant shall not have any rights as a shareholder of the Company until the Shares in question have been registered in the Company s register of shareholders. 
  10.      Legend on Certificates  .  Any Shares issued or transferred to the Participant pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan and the French RSU Subplan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which such Shares are listed, any applicable Federal or state laws or relevant securities laws of the jurisdiction of the domicile of the Participant or to ensure compliance with any additional transfer restrictions that may be in effect from time to time, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any certificates representing such Shares to make appropriate reference to such restrictions. 
  11.      Transferability Restrictions   RSUs/Underlying Shares  .   
  (a)    RSUs may not be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any purported assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance not permitted by this Section 11 shall be void and unenforceable against the Company and any applicable Constituent Company.   
  (b)    Except in the event of Death, Disability and any further specific provision set out in the French Commercial Code with respect to a minimum holding period, from and after the definitive date of their Release, none of the Shares issued pursuant hereto may be transferred or disposed of in any fashion for a period of two years. 
  (c)    In addition, no Shares issued pursuant hereto may be transferred or disposed of within the periods as set forth in Article L. 225-197-1, I of the French Commercial Code, as the same may be amended, modified or replaced while the Participant holds such Shares.  Such periods are initially:  
  (i)    the ten trading days on the New York Stock Exchange (or such other principle exchange on which the Shares may then be traded) ( Trading Days ) preceding and the ten Trading Days following the date on which the Company s consolidated financial statements or, if no such financial statements are published,  the annual accounts, are published; and  
  (ii)    at all times management of the Company is aware of non-public information, which, if published, might have a significant effect on the price of the Shares, and the ten Trading Days following the publication of such information. 
  (d)    Any Shares issued or transferred to the Participant shall be subject to compliance by the Participant with such policies as the Committee or the Company may deem advisable from time to time, including, without limitation, the policies relating to certain minimum share ownership requirements.  Such policies shall be binding upon the permitted respective legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the Participant.  The Company shall give notice of any such additional or modified terms and restrictions applicable to Shares delivered or deliverable under the Agreement to the holder of the RSUs and/or the Shares so delivered, as appropriate, pursuant to the provisions of Section 12 or, if a valid address does not appear to exist in the personnel records, to the last address known by the Company of such holder. Notice of any such changes may be provided electronically, including, without limitation, by publication of such changes to a central website to which any holder of the RSUs or Shares issued therefrom has access.  
  (e)     [Reserved.] 
  (f)    The Company may take such action(s) as it, in its sole discretion, deems necessary, desirable or appropriate to prevent the sale or transfer of Shares during the periods referenced in this Section 11. 
  (g)    The Participant acknowledges that he/she is solely responsible for, and represents and warrants that he or she will at all times, comply with the restrictions on disposition and transfer of Shares  

contained in this Section 11.  Participant further acknowledges that neither the Company nor any Constituent Companies shall be liable or responsible in the event the Participant does not receive any tax benefits or treatment that may be desired in connection with such restrictions, whether as a result of Participant s failure to comply with such restrictions or otherwise.   
  12.      Notices  .  Any notice to be given under this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company in care of its General Counsel at: 
  Accenture   50 W. San Fernando Street  San Jose, CA 95113  Telecopy: (408)817-2799  Attn:  General Counsel 
  (or, if different, the then current principal business address of the duly appointed General Counsel of the Company) and to the Participant at the address appearing in the personnel records of the Company for the Participant or to either party at such other address as either party hereto may hereafter designate in writing to the other.  Any such notice shall be deemed effective upon receipt thereof by the addressee. 
  13.      Withholding  .  The Participant may be required to pay to the Company or any Affiliate and the Company or any Affiliate shall have the right and is hereby authorized to withhold from any compensation or other amount otherwise payable to the Participant, applicable withholding taxes and social security contributions required to be withheld with respect to the RSUs, this Agreement or any issuance or transfer under this Agreement or under the French RSU Subplan and to take such action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations for the payment of such taxes and social security contributions. 
  14.      Choice of Law and Dispute Resolution 
  (a)    THE INTERPRETATION, PERFORMANCE AND ENFORCEMENT OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW. 
  (b)    Subject to paragraphs (c) through (g), any and all disputes which cannot be settled amicably, including any ancillary claims of any party, arising out of, relating to or in connection with the validity, negotiation, execution, interpretation, performance or non-performance and/or termination of this Agreement and any amendment thereto (including without limitation the validity, scope and enforceability of this arbitration provision) (each a  Dispute ) shall be finally settled by arbitration conducted by a single arbitrator in New York (or at such other place of arbitration as the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, acting as Plan Administrator, or any successor plan administrator, may approve) in accordance with the then-existing Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce ( ICC ), except that the parties may select an arbitrator who is a national of the same country as one of the parties.  If the parties to the dispute fail to agree on the selection of an arbitrator within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the request for arbitration, the ICC shall make the appointment.  The arbitrator shall be a lawyer and shall conduct the proceedings in the English language. 
  (c)    Before the Company has filed a request for arbitration or a response under the Rules of Arbitration of the ICC (as the case may be), the Company may by notice in writing to the Participant require that all Disputes or a specific Dispute be heard by any court of law in accordance with paragraph (f) and, for the purposes of this paragraph (c), each party expressly consents to the application of paragraphs (d) and (e) to any such suit, action or proceeding.  If, at the time that the Company gives notice in accordance with this paragraph (c), arbitration has already been commenced in connection with a Dispute, that Dispute shall be withdrawn from arbitration. 

(d)    Either party may bring an action or proceeding in any court of law for the purpose of compelling a party to arbitrate, seeking temporary or preliminary relief in aid of an arbitration hereunder, and/or enforcing an arbitration award and/or in support of the arbitration as permitted by any applicable arbitration law and, for the purposes of this paragraph (d), each party expressly consents to the application of paragraphs (f) and (g) to any such suit, action or proceeding. 
  (e)    Judgment on any award(s) rendered by the tribunal may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.    
  (f)    (i)      Each party hereby irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts located in New York, United States for the purpose of any suit, action or proceeding brought in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (d) or (e).  The parties acknowledge that the forum designated by this paragraph (f) has a reasonable relation to this Agreement, and to the parties  relationship with one another. 
  (ii)    The parties hereby waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which they now or hereafter may have to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding brought in any court referred to in paragraph (f) (i) pursuant to paragraphs (d) or (e) and such parties agree not to plead or claim the same. 
  (g)    The parties agree that if a suit, action or proceeding is brought under paragraphs (d) or (e) proof shall not be required that monetary damages for breach of the provisions of this Agreement would be difficult to calculate and that remedies at law would be inadequate, and they irrevocably appoint the General Counsel of the Company, c/o Accenture, 50 W. San Fernando Street, San Jose, CA, 95113 (or, if different, the then-current principal business address of the duly appointed General Counsel of the Company) as such party s agent for service of process in connection with any such action or proceeding and agree that service of process upon such agent, who shall promptly advise such party of any such service of process, shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon the party in any such action or proceeding. 
  15.      RSUs Subject to Plan and the French RSU Subplan  .  By entering into this Agreement, the Participant agrees and acknowledges that the Participant has received and read a copy of the Plan and the French RSU Subplan.  All RSUs are subject to the Plan and the French RSU Subplan.  In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Plan and the French RSU Subplan, the applicable terms and provisions of the French RSU Subplan will govern and prevail. 
  16.      Signature in Counterparts  .  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. 
  17.      Administration; Consent  .  In order to manage compliance with the terms of this Agreement, Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement may, at the sole discretion of the Company, be registered in the name of the nominee for the holder of the Shares and/or held in the custody of a custodian until otherwise determined by the Company.  To that end, by acceptance of this Agreement, the holder hereby appoints the Company, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact to assign, endorse and register for transfer into such nominee s name or deliver to such custodian any such Shares, granting to such attorneys, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever that such attorney or attorneys may deem necessary, advisable or appropriate to carry out fully the intent of this paragraph as such person might or could do personally.  It is understood and agreed by each holder of the Shares delivered under the Agreement that this appointment, empowerment and authorization may be exercised by the aforementioned persons with respect to all Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement of such holder, and held of record by another person or entity, for the period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the later of the date the Agreement is terminated and  the date that is ten years following the last date Shares are delivered pursuant to this Agreement.  The form of the custody agreement and the identity of the custodian and/or nominee shall be as determined from time to time by the Company in its sole discretion.  A holder of Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement acknowledges and agrees that the Company may refuse to register the transfer of and enter stop transfer orders against the transfer of  

such Shares except for transfers deemed by it in its sole discretion to be in compliance with the terms of this Agreement.  Each holder of Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement agrees to execute such additional documents and take such other actions as may be deemed reasonably necessary or desirable by the Company to effect the provisions of the Agreement, as in effect from time to time.  Each holder of Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement acknowledges and agrees that the Company may impose a legend on any document relating to or Shares issued or issuable pursuant to this Agreement conspicuously referencing the restrictions applicable to such Shares.  
  18.      Severability.   This Agreement shall be enforceable to the fullest extent allowed by law.  In the event that the court or appointed arbitrator holds any provision of this Agreement to be invalid or unenforceable, then, if allowed by law, that provision shall be reduced, modified or otherwise conformed to the relevant law, judgment or determination to the degree necessary to render it valid and enforceable without affecting the rest of this Agreement.  Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be deemed severable from the remainder of this Agreement, and the remaining provisions contained in this Agreement shall be construed to preserve to the maximum permissible extent the intent and purposes of this Agreement.  Any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.  
  19.      Entire Agreement  .  This Agreement, including the Plan and French RSU Subplan, as provided therein, contains the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter therein and supersedes all prior oral and written agreements between the parties pertaining to such matters. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement effective as of the Date of Grant set forth on the attached Essential Grant Terms. 
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  By:  
  Douglas G. Scrivner  General Counsel, Secretary and Compliance Officer 
    PARTICIPANT 
  _______________________________ 
  Signature  
           
  _______________________________ 
  Print Name     
    
  _______________________________ 
  Date     
    
  _______________________________ 
  Employee ID     

APPENDIX A 
  DATA PROTECTION PROVISION 
           (a) 
    By participating in the French RSU Subplan or accepting any rights granted under it, the Participant consents to the collection and processing by the Company and its Affiliates of personal data relating to the Participant by the Company and its Affiliates so that they can fulfill their obligations and exercise their rights under the French RSU Subplan, issue certificates (if any), statements and communications relating to the French RSU Subplan and generally administer and manage the French RSU Subplan, including keeping records of participation levels from time to time.  Any such processing shall be in accordance with the purposes and provisions of this data protection provision.  References in this provision to the Company and its Affiliates include the Participant s employer. 
     These data will include data: 
  (i)    already held in the Participant s records such as the Participant s name and address, ID number, payroll number, length of service and whether the Participant works full-time or part time; 
  (ii)    collected upon the Participant accepting the rights granted under the French RSU Subplan (if applicable); and 
  (iii)    subsequently collected by the Company or any of its Affiliates in relation to the Participant s continued participation in the French RSU Subplan, for example, data about shares offered or received, purchased or sold under the French RSU Subplan from time to time and other appropriate financial and other data about the Participant and his or her participation in the French RSU Subplan (e.g., the date on which the shares were granted, termination of employment and the reasons of termination of employment or retirement of the Participant). 
           (b) 
    This consent is in addition to and does not affect any previous consent provided by the Participant to the Company or its Affiliates. 
              (c) 
    In particular, the Participant expressly consents to the transfer of personal data about the Participant as described in paragraph (a) above by the Company and its Affiliates.  Data may be transferred not only within the country in which the Participant is based from time to time or within the EU or the European Economic Area, but also worldwide, to other employees and officers of the Company and its Affiliates and to the following third parties for the purposes described in paragraph (a) above: 
     (i)    French RSU Subplan administrators, auditors, brokers, agents and contractors of, and third party service providers to, the Company or its Affiliates such as printers and mail houses engaged to print or distribute notices or communications about the French RSU Subplan; 
  (ii)    regulators, tax authorities, stock or security exchanges and other supervisory, regulatory, governmental or public bodies as required by law; 
  (iii)    actual or proposed merger partners or proposed assignees of, or those taking or proposing to take security over, the business or assets of the Company or its Affiliates and their agents and contractors;  
  (iv)    other third parties to whom the Company or its Affiliates may need to communicate/transfer the data in connection with the administration of the French RSU Subplan, under a duty of confidentiality to the Company and its Affiliates; and  
  (v)    the Participant s family members, physicians, heirs, legatees and others associated with the Participant in connection with the French RSU Subplan. 

Not all countries, where the personal data may be transferred to, have an equal level of data protection as in the EU or the European Economic Area.  Countries to which data are transferred include the USA. 
  All national and international transfer of personal data is only done in order to fulfill the obligations and rights of the Company and/or its Affiliates under the French RSU Subplan.  
  The Participant has the right to be informed whether the Company or its Affiliates hold personal data about the Participant and, to the extent they do so, to have access to those personal data at no charge and require them to be corrected if they are inaccurate or to be destroyed if the Participant wishes to withdraw his or her consent.  The Participant is entitled to all the other rights provided for by applicable data protection law, including those detailed in any applicable documentation or guidelines provided to the Participant by the Company or its Affiliates in the past.  More detailed information is available to the Participant by contacting the appropriate local data protection officer in the country in which the Participant is based from time to time.  If the Participant has a complaint regarding the manner in which personal information relating to the Participant is dealt with, the Participant should contact the appropriate local data protection officer referred to above. 
           (d) 
    The processing (including transfer) of data described above is essential for the administration and operation of the French RSU Subplan.  Therefore, in cases where the Participant wishes to participate in the French RSU Subplan, it is essential that his/her personal data are processed in the manner described above.  At any time the Participant may withdraw his or her consent. 

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.32>
 6
 acn831201210-kexhibit1032.htm
 FORM OF SENIOR EXECUTIVE PERFORMANCE EQUITY AWARD RSU AGREEMENT - FRANCE

ACN.8.31.2012 10-K Exhibit 10.32 

Exhibit 10.32 
  SENIOR EXECUTIVE PERFORMANCE EQUITY  
  RESTRICTED SHARE UNIT AGREEMENT 
  FOR THE FRENCH RSU SUBPLAN 
  (Fiscal [___year___])     Terms and Conditions 
  1.  Grant of RSUs  . 
  (a)    Accenture plc, as successor to Accenture Ltd (the  Company ) hereby grants the number of restricted share units ( RSUs ) set forth in the Essential Grant Terms (as defined below) to the Participant set forth in the Essential Grant Terms, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.  This grant is made pursuant to the terms of the Accenture Ltd 2001 Share Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) as amended by the Subplan for Restricted Share Units in France (the  French RSU Subplan ), which Plan and French RSU Subplan, as amended from time to time, are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Restricted Share Unit Agreement.  Each RSU represents the unfunded, unsecured right of the Participant to receive a Share on the date(s) specified herein subject to the conditions specified herein.  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings ascribed to them in the Plan and the French RSU Subplan. 
  (b)    This grant of RSUs is subject to the Senior Executive Performance Equity  Restricted Share Unit Agreement Essential Grant Terms (the  Essential Grant Terms ) attached hereto and the Senior Executive Performance Equity  Restricted Share Unit Agreement for the French RSU Subplan Terms and Conditions which together constitute the  Senior Executive Performance Equity  Restricted Share Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ). 
  2.      Vesting Schedule  .   
  (a)    Subject to the Participant s continued employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates (collectively, the  Constituent Companies ), the RSUs shall vest pursuant to the vesting schedule set forth in the Essential Grant Terms (as modified by this Agreement) until such RSUs are 100% vested.  Upon the Participant s termination of employment for any reason, any unvested RSUs shall immediately terminate, and no further Shares shall be issued or transferred under Section 3 of this Agreement in respect of such unvested RSUs;   provided  ,   however  , that if (i) the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to the Participant s death or Disability, the RSUs granted hereunder shall vest with respect to 100% of the RSUs held by the Participant on the date of such termination of employment, or (ii) the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to an Involuntary Termination, a number of RSUs granted hereunder shall vest on the date of such Involuntary Termination equal to the total number of RSUs that would have otherwise vested within the period ending twelve (12) months immediately following such Involuntary Termination. 
  (b)    For purposes of this Agreement: 
  (i)     Cause  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(d) below. 
  (ii)     Disability  shall mean a termination which results from a determination of  disability ( constat d inaptitude ) as that term is defined by French law. 
  (iii)     Involuntary Termination  shall mean termination of employment with the Constituent Companies (other than for  Cause ) which is not voluntary and which is acknowledged as being  involuntary  in writing by an authorized officer of the Company.  

3.      Form and Timing of Issuance or Transfer  . 
  (a)      In General  .  The Company shall issue or cause there to be transferred ( Release ) to the Participant that whole number of Shares as set forth in the Essential Grant Terms, until all of the whole Shares underlying the vested RSUs have been issued or transferred;   provided   that on each such delivery date, a number of RSUs equal to the number of Shares issued or transferred to the Participant shall be extinguished.  Shares underlying vested RSUs shall not be Released before the second anniversary of the Award Date, except in cases of Death or Disability.  
  (b)      Death  .  Notwithstanding Section 3(a) of this Agreement, if the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to the Participant s death, the Company shall at the request of his or her heirs, provided such request is made within six months as from the date of death, issue or cause there to be transferred a number of Shares equal to the aggregate number of RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder (rounded down to the next whole Share) as soon as practicable following such termination of employment, at which time a number of RSUs equal to the number of Shares issued or transferred to his or her estate shall be extinguished.    
  (c)      Disability  .  Notwithstanding Section 3(a) of this Agreement, if the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to the Participant s Disability, the Company shall issue or cause there to be transferred a number of Shares equal to the aggregate number of RSUs granted to the Participant hereunder (rounded down to the next whole Share) as soon as practicable following such termination of employment, at which time a number of RSUs equal to the number of Shares issued or transferred shall be extinguished. 
  (d)    Notwithstanding Sections 3(a) and 3(b) and 3(c) of this Agreement, upon the Participant s termination of employment with the Constituent Companies for Cause or to the extent that the Participant otherwise takes such action that would constitute Cause, to the extent legally permissible, any outstanding RSUs shall immediately terminate.  For purposes of this Agreement,  Cause  shall mean  cause  as defined in any employment or consultancy agreement (or similar agreement) or in any letter of appointment then in effect between the Participant and the Company or any Affiliate or if not defined therein (it being the intent that the definition of  Cause  shall include, at a minimum, the acts set forth below), or if there shall be no such agreement, to the extent legally permissible, (a) the Participant s embezzlement, misappropriation of corporate funds, or other material acts of dishonesty, (b) the Participant s commission or conviction of any felony, or of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to any felony or misdemeanor, (c) engagement in any activity that the Participant knows or should know could harm the business or reputation of the Company or an Affiliate, (d) the Participant s material failure to adhere to the Company s or an Affiliate s corporate codes, policies or procedures as in effect from time to time, (e) the Participant s continued failure to meet minimum performance standards as determined by the Company or an Affiliate, (f) the Participant s violation of any statutory, contractual, or common law duty or obligation to the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the duty of loyalty, or (g) the Participant s material breach of any confidentiality or non-competition covenant entered into between the Participant and the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the covenants contained in this Agreement.  The determination of the existence of Cause shall be made by the Company in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive for purposes of this Agreement. 
  (e)    Upon any transfer or issuance of Shares underlying RSUs, the Participant shall certify in a manner acceptable to the Company that the Participant is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Plan and the French RSU Subplan.   

4.      Cancellation and Rescission of RSUs and Shares Underlying RSUs  . 
  (a)    In the following circumstances, the Company may require the Participant to, to the extent legally permitted, transfer to the Company up to a number of Shares equal to the number of Shares that have been issued or transferred under this Agreement (without regard to whether the Participant continues to own or control such previously delivered Shares) and the Participant shall bear all costs of transfer, including any transfer taxes that may be payable in connection with the transfer: 
  (i)    the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies is terminated for Cause, or 
  (ii)    the Participant engages in any of the Restricted Activities defined in subsection (b) below. 
  (b)    The Participant shall not, for a period of twelve months following the termination of the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies engage in any Restricted Activities, which for purposes of this Agreement include the following: 
  (i)    associate (including, but not limited to, association as a sole proprietor, owner, employer, partner, principal, investor, joint venturer, shareholder, associate, employee, member, consultant, contractor or otherwise) with any Competitive Enterprise or any of the affiliates, related entities, successors, or assigns of any Competitive Enterprise;   provided  ,   however  , that with respect to the equity of any Competitive Enterprise which is or becomes publicly traded, the Participant s ownership as a passive investor of less than 1% of the outstanding publicly traded stock of a Competitive Enterprise shall not be deemed a violation of this Section 4(b)(i); 
  (ii)    directly or indirectly     (A)     solicit, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in soliciting, any Client or Prospective Client for the purpose of performing or providing any Consulting Services; or (B) perform or provide, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in performing or providing, Consulting Services for any Client or Prospective Client; or (C) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship and/or agreement between the Company or any Affiliates and a Client or Prospective Client; or 
  (iii)    directly or indirectly, solicit, employ or retain, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in soliciting, employing or retaining, any employee or other agent of the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, any former employee or other agent of the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors who ceased working for the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors within an eighteen-month period before or after the date on which the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminated.  
  (c)    For purposes of this Agreement: 
  (i)     Client  shall mean any person, firm, corporation or other organization whatsoever for whom the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors provided services within a twelve-month period before the date on which the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminated, or about which the Participant learned confidential information within the twelve months prior to the date on which the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminated. 
  (ii)     Competitive Enterprise  shall mean a business enterprise that engages in, or owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in, the performance of services of the type provided by the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors.   Competitive Enterprise  shall include, but not be limited to, the entities set forth on the list maintained by the Company on the myHoldings website, which list may be updated by the Company from time to time. 

(iii)     Consulting Services  shall mean the performance of any services of the type provided by the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors at any time, past, present or future. 
  (iv)     Prospective Client  shall mean any person, firm, corporation, or other organization whatsoever with whom the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors have had any negotiations or discussions regarding the possible performance of services by the Company or any of its Affiliates or any of their predecessors within the twelve months prior to the date of the Participant s termination of employment with the Constituent Companies. 
  (v)     solicit  shall mean to have any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner, to take or refrain from taking any action. 
  (d)    If during the twelve month period following the termination of the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies, the Participant is presented with an opportunity that might involve participation in any Restricted Activity under Section 4(b)(i) above, Participant shall notify the Company in writing of the nature of the opportunity (the  Conflicting Activity ).  Following receipt of sufficient information concerning the Conflicting Activity, the Company will advise Participant in writing whether the Company considers the Participant s RSUs to be subject to Section 4(a)(ii) above.  The Company retains sole discretion to determine whether Participant s RSUs are subject to Section 4(a)(ii) and to alter its determination should additional or different facts become known to the Company. 
  5.      No Right to Continued Employment  .  Neither the Plan nor the French RSU Subplan nor this Agreement shall be construed as giving the Participant the right to be retained in the employ of, or in any consulting relationship to, the Company or any Affiliate.  Further, the Company or an Affiliate may at any time dismiss the Participant from employment or discontinue any consulting relationship, free from any liability or any claim under the Plan, the French RSU Subplan or this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein. 
  6.      Data Protection  .  The Participant consents to the processing (including international transfer) of personal data as set out in Appendix A for the purposes specified therein    
  7.      Issuance of the shares  .  As a condition to the issuance or transfer of the Shares underlying the RSUs granted hereunder, the Participant shall, to the degree reasonably required by the Company, execute and return to the Company a counterpart of this Agreement in accordance with the instructions provided by the Company.  
  8.      No Acquired Rights  .  In participating in the French RSU Subplan, the Participant acknowledges and accepts that the Board has the power to amend or terminate the French RSU Subplan at any time except that a modification which could impact on the participants rights or entitlements would be subject to French requirements, and that the opportunity given to the Participant to participate in the French RSU Subplan is entirely at the discretion of the Committee and does not obligate the Company or any of its Affiliates to offer such participation in the future (whether on the same or different terms).  The Participant further acknowledges and accepts that such Participant s participation in the French RSU Subplan is outside the terms of the Participant s contract of employment with the Constituent Companies and is therefore not to be considered part of any normal or expected compensation and that the termination of the Participant s employment under any circumstances whatsoever will give the Participant no claim or right of action against the Company or its Affiliates in respect of any loss of rights under this Agreement or the French RSU Subplan that may arise as a result of such termination of employment.   
  9.      No Rights of a Shareholder  .  The Participant shall not have any rights as a shareholder of the Company until the Shares in question have been registered in the Company s register of shareholders. 
  10.      Legend on Certificates  .  Any Shares issued or transferred to the Participant pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan and the French RSU Subplan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which such Shares are listed, any applicable  

Federal or state laws or relevant securities laws of the jurisdiction of the domicile of the Participant or to ensure compliance with any additional transfer restrictions that may be in effect from time to time, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any certificates representing such Shares to make appropriate reference to such restrictions. 
  11.      Transferability Restrictions   RSUs/Underlying Shares  .   
  (a)    RSUs may not be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any purported assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance not permitted by this Section 11 shall be void and unenforceable against the Company and any applicable Constituent Company.   
  (b)    Except in the event of Death, Disability and any further specific provision set out in the French Commercial Code with respect to a minimum holding period, from and after the definitive date of their Release, none of the Shares issued pursuant hereto may be transferred or disposed of in any fashion for a period of two years. 
  (c)    In addition, no Shares issued pursuant hereto may be transferred or disposed of within the periods as set forth in Article L. 225-197-1, I of the French Commercial Code, as the same may be amended, modified or replaced while the Participant holds such Shares.  Such periods are initially:  
  (i)    the ten trading days on the New York Stock Exchange (or such other principle exchange on which the Shares may then be traded) ( Trading Days ) preceding and the ten Trading Days following the date on which the Company s consolidated financial statements or, if no such financial statements are published,  the annual accounts, are published; and  
  (ii)    at all times management of the Company is aware of non-public information, which, if published, might have a significant effect on the price of the Shares, and the ten Trading Days following the publication of such information. 
  (d)    Any Shares issued or transferred to the Participant shall be subject to compliance by the Participant with such policies as the Committee or the Company may deem advisable from time to time, including, without limitation, the policies relating to certain minimum share ownership requirements.  Such policies shall be binding upon the permitted respective legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the Participant.  The Company shall give notice of any such additional or modified terms and restrictions applicable to Shares delivered or deliverable under the Agreement to the holder of the RSUs and/or the Shares so delivered, as appropriate, pursuant to the provisions of Section 12 or, if a valid address does not appear to exist in the personnel records, to the last address known by the Company of such holder. Notice of any such changes may be provided electronically, including, without limitation, by publication of such changes to a central website to which any holder of the RSUs or Shares issued therefrom has access.  
  (e)     [Reserved.] 
  (f)    The Company may take such action(s) as it, in its sole discretion, deems necessary, desirable or appropriate to prevent the sale or transfer of Shares during the periods referenced in this Section 11. 
  (g)    The Participant acknowledges that he/she is solely responsible for, and represents and warrants that he or she will at all times, comply with the restrictions on disposition and transfer of Shares contained in this Section 11.  Participant further acknowledges that neither the Company nor any Constituent Companies shall be liable or responsible in the event the Participant does not receive any tax benefits or treatment that may be desired in connection with such restrictions, whether as a result of Participant s failure to comply with such restrictions or otherwise.   

12.      Notices  .  Any notice to be given under this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company in care of its General Counsel at: 
  Accenture  50 W. San Fernando Street  San Jose, CA 95113  Telecopy: (408)817-2799  Attn:  General Counsel 
  (or, if different, the then current principal business address of the duly appointed General Counsel of the Company) and to the Participant at the address appearing in the personnel records of the Company for the Participant or to either party at such other address as either party hereto may hereafter designate in writing to the other.  Any such notice shall be deemed effective upon receipt thereof by the addressee. 
  13.      Withholding  .  The Participant may be required to pay to the Company or any Affiliate and the Company or any Affiliate shall have the right and is hereby authorized to withhold from any compensation or other amount otherwise payable to the Participant, applicable withholding taxes and social security contributions required to be withheld with respect to the RSUs, this Agreement or any issuance or transfer under this Agreement or under the French RSU Subplan and to take such action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations for the payment of such taxes and social security contributions. 
  14.      Choice of Law and Dispute Resolution 
  (a)    THE INTERPRETATION, PERFORMANCE AND ENFORCEMENT OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW. 
  (b)    Subject to paragraphs (c) through (g), any and all disputes which cannot be settled amicably, including any ancillary claims of any party, arising out of, relating to or in connection with the validity, negotiation, execution, interpretation, performance or non-performance and/or termination of this Agreement and any amendment thereto (including without limitation the validity, scope and enforceability of this arbitration provision) (each a  Dispute ) shall be finally settled by arbitration conducted by a single arbitrator in New York (or at such other place of arbitration as the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, acting as Plan Administrator, or any successor plan administrator, may approve) in accordance with the then-existing Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce ( ICC ), except that the parties may select an arbitrator who is a national of the same country as one of the parties.  If the parties to the dispute fail to agree on the selection of an arbitrator within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the request for arbitration, the ICC shall make the appointment.  The arbitrator shall be a lawyer and shall conduct the proceedings in the English language. 
  (c)    Before the Company has filed a request for arbitration or a response under the Rules of Arbitration of the ICC (as the case may be), the Company may by notice in writing to the Participant require that all Disputes or a specific Dispute be heard by any court of law in accordance with paragraph (f) and, for the purposes of this paragraph (c), each party expressly consents to the application of paragraphs (d) and (e) to any such suit, action or proceeding.  If, at the time that the Company gives notice in accordance with this paragraph (c), arbitration has already been commenced in connection with a Dispute, that Dispute shall be withdrawn from arbitration. 
  (d)    Either party may bring an action or proceeding in any court of law for the purpose of compelling a party to arbitrate, seeking temporary or preliminary relief in aid of an arbitration hereunder, and/or enforcing an arbitration award and/or in support of the arbitration as permitted by any applicable arbitration law and, for the purposes of this paragraph (d), each party expressly consents to the application of paragraphs (f) and (g) to any such suit, action or proceeding. 

(e)    Judgment on any award(s) rendered by the tribunal may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.    
  (f)    (i)      Each party hereby irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts located in New York, United States for the purpose of any suit, action or proceeding brought in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (d) or (e).  The parties acknowledge that the forum designated by this paragraph (f) has a reasonable relation to this Agreement, and to the parties  relationship with one another. 
  (ii)    The parties hereby waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which they now or hereafter may have to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding brought in any court referred to in paragraph (f) (i) pursuant to paragraphs (d) or (e) and such parties agree not to plead or claim the same. 
  (g)    The parties agree that if a suit, action or proceeding is brought under paragraphs (d) or (e) proof shall not be required that monetary damages for breach of the provisions of this Agreement would be difficult to calculate and that remedies at law would be inadequate, and they irrevocably appoint the General Counsel of the Company, c/o Accenture, 50 W. San Fernando Street, San Jose, CA, 95113 (or, if different, the then-current principal business address of the duly appointed General Counsel of the Company) as such party s agent for service of process in connection with any such action or proceeding and agree that service of process upon such agent, who shall promptly advise such party of any such service of process, shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon the party in any such action or proceeding. 
  15.      RSUs Subject to Plan and the French RSU Subplan  .  By entering into this Agreement, the Participant agrees and acknowledges that the Participant has received and read a copy of the Plan and the French RSU Subplan.  All RSUs are subject to the Plan and the French RSU Subplan.  In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Plan and the French RSU Subplan, the applicable terms and provisions of the French RSU Subplan will govern and prevail. 
  16.      Signature in Counterparts  .  To the extent that this Agreement is manually signed, instead of electronically accepted by the Participant (if permitted by the Company), it may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. 
  17.      Administration; Consent  .  In order to manage compliance with the terms of this Agreement, Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement may, at the sole discretion of the Company, be registered in the name of the nominee for the holder of the Shares and/or held in the custody of a custodian until otherwise determined by the Company.  To that end, by acceptance of this Agreement, the holder hereby appoints the Company, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact to assign, endorse and register for transfer into such nominee s name or deliver to such custodian any such Shares, granting to such attorneys, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever that such attorney or attorneys may deem necessary, advisable or appropriate to carry out fully the intent of this paragraph as such person might or could do personally.  It is understood and agreed by each holder of the Shares delivered under the Agreement that this appointment, empowerment and authorization may be exercised by the aforementioned persons with respect to all Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement of such holder, and held of record by another person or entity, for the period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the later of the date the Agreement is terminated and  the date that is ten years following the last date Shares are delivered pursuant to this Agreement.  The form of the custody agreement and the identity of the custodian and/or nominee shall be as determined from time to time by the Company in its sole discretion.  A holder of Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement acknowledges and agrees that the Company may refuse to register the transfer of and enter stop transfer orders against the transfer of such Shares except for transfers deemed by it in its sole discretion to be in compliance with the terms of this Agreement.  Each holder of Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement agrees to execute such additional documents and take such other actions as may be deemed reasonably necessary or desirable by the Company to effect the provisions of the Agreement, as in effect from time to time.  Each holder of Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement acknowledges and agrees that the Company may impose a legend on any document relating to or  

Shares issued or issuable pursuant to this Agreement conspicuously referencing the restrictions applicable to such Shares.  
  18.      Severability.   This Agreement shall be enforceable to the fullest extent allowed by law.  In the event that the court or appointed arbitrator holds any provision of this Agreement to be invalid or unenforceable, then, if allowed by law, that provision shall be reduced, modified or otherwise conformed to the relevant law, judgment or determination to the degree necessary to render it valid and enforceable without affecting the rest of this Agreement.  Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be deemed severable from the remainder of this Agreement, and the remaining provisions contained in this Agreement shall be construed to preserve to the maximum permissible extent the intent and purposes of this Agreement.  Any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.  
  19.      Entire Agreement  .  This Agreement, including the Plan and French RSU Subplan, as provided therein, contains the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter therein and supersedes all prior oral and written agreements between the parties pertaining to such matters. 
  Electronic Signature  .  Participant acknowledges and agrees that by clicking the  Accept Grant Online  button on the  Grant Agreement   Essential Grant Terms  page of the myHoldings website (https://myholdings.accenture.com), it   will act as the Participant s electronic signature to this Agreement and will constitute Participant s acceptance of and agreement with all of the terms and conditions of the RSUs, as set forth in the Agreement, the Essential Grant Terms, the Plan and the French RSU Subplan. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement effective as of the Date of Grant set forth on the attached Essential Grant Terms. 
               ACCENTURE PLC 
        
      By:  
        
      Douglas G. Scrivner 
      General Counsel, Secretary and Compliance Officer 
        
      [IF NOT ELECTRONICALLY ACCEPTED] 
        
      PARTICIPANT 

Signature 
        
      Print Name 
        
      Date 
        
      Employee ID 

APPENDIX A 
  DATA PROTECTION PROVISION 
           (a) 
    By participating in the French RSU Subplan or accepting any rights granted under it, the Participant consents to the collection and processing by the Company and its Affiliates of personal data relating to the Participant by the Company and its Affiliates so that they can fulfill their obligations and exercise their rights under the French RSU Subplan, issue certificates (if any), statements and communications relating to the French RSU Subplan and generally administer and manage the French RSU Subplan, including keeping records of participation levels from time to time.  Any such processing shall be in accordance with the purposes and provisions of this data protection provision.  References in this provision to the Company and its Affiliates include the Participant s employer. 
     These data will include data: 
  (i)    already held in the Participant s records such as the Participant s name and address, ID number, payroll number, length of service and whether the Participant works full-time or part time; 
  (ii)    collected upon the Participant accepting the rights granted under the French RSU Subplan (if applicable); and 
  (iii)    subsequently collected by the Company or any of its Affiliates in relation to the Participant s continued participation in the French RSU Subplan, for example, data about shares offered or received, purchased or sold under the French RSU Subplan from time to time and other appropriate financial and other data about the Participant and his or her participation in the French RSU Subplan (e.g., the date on which the shares were granted, termination of employment and the reasons of termination of employment or retirement of the Participant). 
           (b) 
    This consent is in addition to and does not affect any previous consent provided by the Participant to the Company or its Affiliates. 
              (c) 
    In particular, the Participant expressly consents to the transfer of personal data about the Participant as described in paragraph (a) above by the Company and its Affiliates.  Data may be transferred not only within the country in which the Participant is based from time to time or within the EU or the European Economic Area, but also worldwide, to other employees and officers of the Company and its Affiliates and to the following third parties for the purposes described in paragraph (a) above: 
     (i)    French RSU Subplan administrators, auditors, brokers, agents and contractors of, and third party service providers to, the Company or its Affiliates such as printers and mail houses engaged to print or distribute notices or communications about the French RSU Subplan; 
  (ii)    regulators, tax authorities, stock or security exchanges and other supervisory, regulatory, governmental or public bodies as required by law; 
  (iii)    actual or proposed merger partners or proposed assignees of, or those taking or proposing to take security over, the business or assets of the Company or its Affiliates and their agents and contractors;  
  (iv)    other third parties to whom the Company or its Affiliates may need to communicate/transfer the data in connection with the administration of the French RSU Subplan, under a duty of confidentiality to the Company and its Affiliates; and  
  (v)    the Participant s family members, physicians, heirs, legatees and others associated with the Participant in connection with the French RSU Subplan. 

Not all countries, where the personal data may be transferred to, have an equal level of data protection as in the EU or the European Economic Area.  Countries to which data are transferred include the USA. 
  All national and international transfer of personal data is only done in order to fulfill the obligations and rights of the Company and/or its Affiliates under the French RSU Subplan.  
  The Participant has the right to be informed whether the Company or its Affiliates hold personal data about the Participant and, to the extent they do so, to have access to those personal data at no charge and require them to be corrected if they are inaccurate or to be destroyed if the Participant wishes to withdraw his or her consent.  The Participant is entitled to all the other rights provided for by applicable data protection law, including those detailed in any applicable documentation or guidelines provided to the Participant by the Company or its Affiliates in the past.  More detailed information is available to the Participant by contacting the appropriate local data protection officer in the country in which the Participant is based from time to time.  If the Participant has a complaint regarding the manner in which personal information relating to the Participant is dealt with, the Participant should contact the appropriate local data protection officer referred to above. 
           (d) 
    The processing (including transfer) of data described above is essential for the administration and operation of the French RSU Subplan.  Therefore, in cases where the Participant wishes to participate in the French RSU Subplan, it is essential that his/her personal data are processed in the manner described above.  At any time the Participant may withdraw his or her consent. 

</EX-10.32>

<EX-10.35>
 7
 acn831201210-kexhibit1035.htm
 FORM OF BONUS RSU AGREEMENT

ACN.8.31.2012 10-K Exhibit 10.35 

Exhibit 10.35 
    
  STANDARD FORM OF 
  BONUS RESTRICTED SHARE UNIT AGREEMENT  
  (PCMC) 

Terms   and Conditions 
    
  1.      Grant of RSUs  . 
    
  (a)    The Company hereby grants the number of restricted share units ( RSUs ) set forth in the Essential Grant Terms (as defined below) to the Participant set forth in the Essential Grant Terms, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth. This grant is made pursuant to the terms of the Accenture Ltd 2001 Share Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), which Plan, as amended from time to time, is incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Restricted Share Unit Agreement.  Each RSU represents the unfunded, unsecured right of the Participant to receive a Share on the date(s) specified herein. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. 
    
  (b)    This grant of RSUs is subject to the Bonus Restricted Share Unit Agreement Essential Grant Terms (the  Essential Grant Terms ) attached hereto and the Standard Form of Bonus Restricted Share Unit Agreement Terms and Conditions which together constitute the Bonus Restricted Share Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ). 
    
  2.      Vesting Schedule  . 
    
  (a)    Subject to the Participant s continued employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates (collectively, the  Constituent Companies ), the RSUs shall vest pursuant to the vesting schedule set forth in the Essential Grant Terms (as modified by this Agreement), until such RSUs are 100% vested.  Upon the Participant s termination of employment for any reason, any unvested RSUs shall immediately terminate, and no further Shares shall be issued or transferred under Section 3 of this Agreement in respect of such unvested RSUs;   provided  ,   however  , that if (i) the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to the Participant s death or Disability, the RSUs granted hereunder shall vest with respect to 100% of the RSUs held by the Participant on the date of such termination of employment, or (ii) the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to an Involuntary Termination, an additional number of RSUs granted hereunder shall vest on the date of such Involuntary Termination equal to that number of RSUs that are scheduled to vest on the next scheduled vesting date following the date of such Involuntary Termination as set forth in the Essential Grant Terms. 
    
  (b)    For purposes of this Agreement: 
    
  (i)     Cause  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(c) below. 
    
  (ii)     Disability  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b) below. 
    
    (iii)     Involuntary Termination  shall mean termination of employment with the Constituent Companies (other than for  Cause ) which is not voluntary and which is acknowledged as being  involuntary  in writing by an authorized officer of the Company. 
    
  3.      Form and Timing of Issuance or Transfer  . 
    
  (a)      In General  . Unless the Committee or its designee permits the Participant to elect to defer the issuance or transfer of Shares under this Agreement pursuant to the terms and conditions established by the Committee in its sole discretion, the Company shall issue or cause there to be transferred to the Participant that number of Shares as set forth in the Essential Grant Terms, until all of the Shares underlying the vested RSUs have been issued or transferred;   provided   that on each such delivery date, a number of RSUs equal to the number of Shares issued or transferred to the Participant shall be extinguished;   provided  ,   further  ,   however  , that upon the  

issuance or transfer of Shares to the Participant, in lieu of a fractional Share, the Participant shall receive a cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value of such fractional Share. 
    
  (b)      Death or Disability  .  Notwithstanding Section 3(a) of this Agreement, if the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates due to the Participant s death or Disability, the Company shall, as soon as practicable following such termination of employment, issue, or procure the transfer of, the Shares underlying such vested RSUs to the Participant or his or her estate (rounded down to the next whole Share), at which time a number of RSUs equal to the number of Shares issued or transferred to the Participant or to his or her estate shall be extinguished;   provided  ,   however  , that upon the issuance or transfer of Shares to the Participant or to his or her estate, in lieu of a fractional Share, the Participant or his or her estate shall receive a cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value of such fractional Share. 
    
  For purposes of this Agreement,  Disability  shall mean  disability  as defined (i) in any employment agreement then in effect between the Participant and the Company or any Affiliate or (ii) if not defined therein, or if there shall be no such agreement, as defined in the long-term disability plan maintained by the Participant s employer as in effect from time to time, or (iii) if there shall be no plan, the inability of the Participant to perform in all material respects his or her duties and responsibilities to the Constituent Companies for a period of six (6) consecutive months or for an aggregate period of nine (9) months in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period by reason of a physical or mental incapacity. 
    
  (c)    Notwithstanding Sections 3(a) and 3(b) of this Agreement, upon the Participant s termination of employment with the Constituent Companies for Cause or to the extent the Participant otherwise takes such action which would constitute Cause, to the extent legally permissible, any outstanding RSUs shall immediately terminate.  For purposes of this Agreement,  Cause  shall mean  cause  as defined in any employment or consultancy agreement (or similar agreement) or in any letter of appointment then in effect between the Participant and the Company or any Affiliate or if not defined therein (it being the intent that the definition of  Cause  shall include, at a minimum, the acts set forth below), or if there shall be no such agreement, to the extent legally permissible, (a) the Participant s embezzlement, misappropriation of corporate funds, or other material acts of dishonesty, (b) the Participant s commission or conviction of any felony, or of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to any felony or misdemeanor, (c) engagement in any activity that the Participant knows or should know could harm the business or reputation of the Company or an Affiliate, (d) the Participant s material failure to adhere to the Company s or an Affiliate s corporate codes, policies or procedures as in effect from time to time, (e) the Participant s continued failure to meet minimum performance standards as determined by the Company or an Affiliate, (f) the Participant s violation of any statutory, contractual, or common law duty or obligation to the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the duty of loyalty, or (g) the Participant s material breach of any confidentiality or non-competition covenant entered into between the Participant and the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the covenants contained in this Agreement.  The determination of the existence of Cause shall be made by the Company in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive for purposes of this Agreement. 
    
    4.      Dividends  .  If on any date while RSUs are outstanding hereunder the Company shall pay any dividend on the Shares (other than a dividend payable in Shares), the number of RSUs granted to the Participant shall, as of such dividend payment date, be increased by a number of RSUs equal to: (a) the product of (x) the number of RSUs held by the Participant as of the related dividend record date, multiplied by (y) the per Share amount of any cash dividend (or, in the case of any dividend payable in whole or in part other than in cash, the per Share value of such dividend, as determined in good faith by the Committee), divided by (b) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the payment date of such dividend.  In the case of any dividend declared on Shares that is payable in the form of Shares, the number of RSUs granted to the Participant shall be increased by a number equal to the product of (I) the aggregate number of RSUs held by the Participant through the related dividend record date, multiplied by (II) the number of Shares (including any fraction thereof) payable as a dividend on a Share. 
    
  5.      Adjustments Upon Certain Events  .  In the event of any change in the outstanding Shares by reason of any Share dividend or split, reorganization, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, amalgamation, spin-off or combination transaction or exchange of Shares or other similar events (collectively, an  Adjustment Event ), the Committee may, in its sole discretion, adjust any Shares or RSUs subject to this Agreement to reflect such Adjustment Event. 

6.      Cancellation and Rescission of RSUs and Shares Underlying RSUs  . 
    
  (a)    Upon any transfer or issuance of Shares underlying RSUs, the Participant shall certify in a manner acceptable to the Company that the Participant is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan. 
    
  (b)    In the event the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies is terminated for Cause or if the Participant breaches any of the provisions of Section 7 of this Agreement, the Participant shall, to the extent legally permitted, transfer to the Company a number of Shares equal to the number of Shares that have been issued or transferred under this Agreement (without regard to whether the Participant continues to own or control such previously delivered Shares) and the Participant shall bear all costs of transfer, including any transfer taxes that may be payable in connection with such transfer. 
    
    7.      Restrictive Covenants  . 
    
  (a)    The Participant shall not, for a period of eighteen months following the termination of the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies: 
    
  (i) associate (including, but not limited to, association as a sole proprietor, owner, employer, partner, principal, investor, joint venturer, shareholder, associate, employee, member, consultant, contractor or otherwise) with any Competitive Enterprise or any of the affiliates, related entities, successors, or assigns of any Competitive Enterprise and in connection with such association engage in Consulting Services;   provided  ,   however  , that with respect to the equity of any Competitive Enterprise which is or becomes publicly traded, the Participant s ownership as a passive investor of less than 1% of the 
  outstanding publicly traded stock of a Competitive Enterprise shall not be deemed a violation of this Section 7(a)(i); 
    
  (ii)  directly or indirectly (A) solicit, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in soliciting, any Client or Prospective Client for the purpose of performing or providing any Consulting Services; or (B) perform or provide, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in performing or providing, Consulting Services for any Client or Prospective Client; or (C) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship and/or agreement between the Company or any Affiliates and a Client or Prospective Client; or 
    
  (iii)  directly or indirectly, solicit, employ or retain, or assist any other individual, person, firm or other entity in soliciting, employing or retaining, any employee or other agent of the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, any former employee or other agent of the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors who ceased working for the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors within an eighteen- month period before or after the date on which the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminated, in connection with or for the purpose of performing or providing Consulting Services. 
    
  (b)    For purposes of this Agreement: 
    
  (i)   Client  shall mean any person, firm, corporation or other organization whatsoever for whom the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors provided services within an eighteen-month period before or after the date on which the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminated. 
    
  (ii)   Competitive Enterprise  shall mean a business enterprise that engages in, or owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in, the performance of services of the type provided by the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors at any time, past, present or future. 
    
  (iii)   Consulting Services  shall mean the performance of any services of the type provided by the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors at any time, past, present or future. 

(iv)  Prospective Client  shall mean any person, firm, corporation, or other organization whatsoever with whom the Company, its Affiliates and/or their predecessors have had any negotiations or discussions regarding the possible performance of services within the eighteen months preceding the Participant s termination of employment with the Constituent Companies. 
    
  (v)   solicit  shall mean to have any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner, to take or refrain from taking any action. 
    
  8.      No Right to Continued Employment  .  Neither the Plan nor this Agreement shall be construed as giving the Participant the right to be retained in the employ of, or in any consulting relationship to, the Company or any Affiliate.  Further, the Company or an Affiliate may at any time dismiss the Participant from employment or discontinue any consulting relationship, free from any liability or any claim under the Plan or this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein. 
    
  9.        Data Protection  .  The Participant consents to the processing (including international transfer) of personal data as set out in Appendix A for the purposes specified therein. 
    
  10.      Collateral Agreements  .  As a condition to the issuance or transfer of the Shares underlying the RSUs granted hereunder, the Participant shall, to the degree reasonably required by the Company, (a) execute (i) a counterpart to that certain Partner Matters Agreement, dated as of April 18, 2001, and/or (ii) an employment agreement, a consultancy agreement, a letter of appointment and/or an intellectual property agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, or (b) provide evidence that such agreements have been previously executed. 
    
  11.      No Acquired Rights  .  In participating in the Plan, the Participant acknowledges and accepts that the Board has the power to amend or terminate the Plan at any time and that the opportunity given to the Participant to participate in the Plan is entirely at the discretion of the Committee and does not obligate the Company or any of its Affiliates to offer such participation in the future (whether on the same or different terms).  The Participant further acknowledges and accepts that such Participant s participation in the Plan is outside the terms of the Participant s contract of employment with the Constituent Companies and is therefore not to be considered part of any normal or expected compensation and that the termination of the Participant s employment under any circumstances whatsoever will give the Participant no claim or right of action against the Company or its Affiliates in respect of any loss of rights under this Agreement or the Plan that may arise as a result of such termination of employment. 
    
  12.      No   Rights of a Shareholder  .  The Participant shall not have any rights as a shareholder of the Company until the Shares in question have been registered in the Company s register of shareholders. 
    
    13.      Legend on Certificates  . Any Shares issued or transferred to the Participant pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which such Shares are listed, any applicable Federal or state laws or relevant securities laws of the jurisdiction of the domicile of the Participant or to ensure compliance with any additional transfer restrictions that may be in effect from time to time, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any certificates representing such Shares to make appropriate reference to such restrictions. 
    
  14.      Transferability   Restrictions   RSUs/Underlying Shares  .  RSUs may not be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any purported assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance not permitted by this Section 14 shall be void and unenforceable against any Constituent Company.  Any Shares issued or transferred to the Participant shall be subject to compliance by the Participant with such policies as the Committee or the Company may deem advisable from time to time, including, without limitation, the policies relating to minimum executive employee share ownership requirements.  Such policies shall be binding upon the permitted respective legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the Participant.  The Company shall give notice of any such additional or modified terms and restrictions applicable to Shares delivered or deliverable under the Agreement to the holder of the RSUs and/or the Shares so delivered, as appropriate, pursuant to the provisions of Section 15 or, if a valid address does not appear to exist in the  

personnel records, to the last address known by the Company of such holder. Notice of any such changes may be provided electronically, including, without limitation, by publication of such changes to a central website to which any holder of the RSUs or Shares issued therefrom has access. 
    
  15.      Notices  .  Any notice to be given under this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company in care of its General Counsel at: 
    
  Accenture Ltd 
  1661 Page Mill Road 
  Palo Alto, CA 94304 
  Telecopy: (650) 213-2956 
  Attn:  General Counsel 
    
  (or, if different, the then current principal business address of the duly appointed General Counsel of the Company) and to the Participant at the address appearing in the personnel records of the Company for the Participant or to either party at such other address as either party hereto may hereafter designate in writing to the other.  Any such notice shall be deemed effective upon receipt thereof by the addressee. 
    
  16.      Withholding  .  The Participant may be required to pay to the Company or any Affiliate and the Company or any Affiliate shall have the right and is hereby authorized to withhold from any issuance or transfer due under this Agreement or under the Plan or from any compensation or other amount owing to the Participant, applicable withholding taxes with respect to this Agreement or any issuance or transfer under this Agreement or under the Plan and to take such action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations for the payment of such taxes.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant s employment with the Constituent Companies terminates prior to the issuance or transfer of all of the Shares under this Agreement, the payment of any applicable withholding taxes with respect to any further issuance or transfer of Shares under this Agreement or the Plan shall be made solely through the sale of Shares equal to the statutory minimum withholding liability. 
    
    17.    Choice of Law and Jurisdiction  .    THE INTERPRETATION, PERFORMANCE AND ENFORCEMENT OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW AND SHALL BE SUBJECT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE NEW YORK COURTS. 
    
  18.    RSUs Subject to Plan  .  By entering into this Agreement, the Participant agrees and acknowledges that the Participant has received and read a copy of the Plan.  All RSUs are subject to the Plan.  In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Plan will govern and prevail. 
    
  19.    Signature in Counterparts  .  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. 
    
  20.    Administration; Consent  . In order to manage compliance with the terms of this Agreement, Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement may, at the sole discretion of the Company, be registered in the name of the nominee for the holder of the Shares and/or held in the custody of a custodian until otherwise determined by the Company.  To that end, by acceptance of this Agreement, the holder hereby appoints the Company, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact to assign, endorse and register for transfer into such nominee s name or deliver to such custodian any such Shares, granting to such attorneys, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever that such attorney or attorneys may deem necessary, advisable or appropriate to carry out fully the intent of this paragraph as such person might or could do personally.  It is understood and agreed by each holder of the Shares delivered under the Agreement that this appointment, empowerment and authorization may be exercised by the aforementioned persons with respect to all Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement of such holder, and held of record by another person or entity, for the period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the later of the date the Agreement is terminated and  the date that is ten years following the last date Shares are delivered pursuant to this Agreement.  The form of the custody agreement and the identity of the custodian and/or nominee shall be as determined from time to time by the Company in its sole discretion. A holder of Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement acknowledges and agrees that the Company may refuse to register the transfer of and enter stop  

transfer orders against the transfer of such Shares except for transfers deemed by it in its sole discretion to be in compliance with the terms of this Agreement.  Each holder of Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement agrees to execute such additional documents and take such other actions as may be deemed reasonably necessary or desirable by the Company to effect the provisions of the Agreement, as in effect from time to time.  Each holder of Shares delivered pursuant to the Agreement acknowledges and agrees that the Company may impose a legend on any document relating to or Shares issued or issuable pursuant to this Agreement conspicuously referencing the restrictions applicable to such Shares. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement effective as of the Date of Grant set forth on the attached Essential Grant Terms. 

ACCENTURE LTD 

By: 

Douglas G. Scrivner 
      General Counsel and Secretary 

PARTICIPANT 

By: 

APPENDIX A 
    
  DATA PROTECTION PROVISION 
    
           (a) 
    By participating in the Plan or accepting any rights granted under it, the Participant consents to the collection and processing by the Company and its Affiliates of personal data relating to the Participant by the Company and its Affiliates so that they can fulfill their obligations and exercise their rights under the Plan, issue certificates (if any), statements and communications relating to the Plan and generally administer and manage the Plan, including keeping records of participation levels from time to time.  Any such processing shall be in accordance with the purposes and provisions of this data protection provision.  References in this provision to the Company and its Affiliates include the Participant s employer. 
       
  These data will include data: 
    
  (i) already held in the Participant s records such as the Participant s name and address, ID 
  number, payroll number, length of service and whether the Participant works full- time or part time; 
    
  (ii)  collected upon the Participant accepting the rights granted under the Plan (if applicable); and 
    
  (iii) subsequently collected 
    
  by the Company or any of its Affiliates in relation to the Participant s continued participation in the Plan, for example, data about shares offered or received, purchased or sold under the Plan from time to time and other appropriate financial and other data about the Participant and his or her participation in the Plan (e.g., the date on which the shares were granted, termination of employment and the reasons of termination of employment or retirement of the Participant). 
    
           (b) 
    This consent is in addition to and does not affect any previous consent provided by the Participant to the Company or its Affiliates. 
       
           (c) 
    In particular, the Participant expressly consents to the transfer of personal data about the Participant as described in paragraph (a) above by the Company and its Affiliates.  Data may be transferred not only within the country in which the Participant is based from time to time or within the EU or the European Economic Area, but also worldwide, to other employees and officers of the Company and its Affiliates and to the following third parties for the purposes described in paragraph (a) above: 
       
  (i) Plan administrators, auditors, brokers, agents and contractors of, and third party service providers to, the Company or its Affiliates such as printers and mail houses engaged to print or distribute notices or communications about the Plan; 
    
  (ii) regulators, tax authorities, stock or security exchanges and other supervisory, regulatory, governmental or public bodies as required by law; 
    
  (iii) actual or proposed merger partners or proposed assignees of, or those taking or proposing to take security over, the business or assets of the Company or its Affiliates and their agents and contractors; 
    
  (iv) other third parties to whom the Company or its Affiliates may need to communicate/transfer the data in connection with the administration of the Plan, under a duty of confidentiality to the Company and its Affiliates; and 
    
  (v)  the Participant s family members, physicians, heirs, legatees and others associated with the Participant in connection with the Plan. 

Not all countries, where the personal data may be transferred to, have an equal level of data protection as in the EU or the European Economic Area.  Countries to which data are transferred include the USA and Bermuda. 
    
  All national and international transfer of personal data is only done in order to fulfill the obligations and rights of the Company and/or its Affiliates under the Plan. 
    
  The Participant has the right to be informed whether the Company or its Affiliates hold personal data about the Participant and, to the extent they do so, to have access to those personal data at no charge and require them to be corrected if they are inaccurate or to be destroyed if the Participant wishes to withdraw his or her consent.  The Participant is entitled to all the other rights provided for by applicable data protection law, including those detailed in any applicable documentation or guidelines provided to the Participant by the Company or its Affiliates in the past.  More detailed information is available to the Participant by contacting the appropriate local data protection officer in the country in which the Participant is based from time to time.  If the Participant has a complaint regarding the manner in which personal information relating to the Participant is dealt with, the Participant should contact the appropriate local data protection officer referred to above. 
    
           (d) 
    The processing (including transfer) of data described above is essential for the administration and operation of the Plan.  Therefore, in cases where the Participant wishes to participate in the Plan, it is essential that his/her personal data are processed in the manner described above.  At any time the Participant may withdraw his or her consent. 

</EX-10.35>

<EX-10.38>
 8
 acn831201210-kexhibit1038.htm
 SENIOR EXECUTIVE SEPARATION BENEFITS PLAN

ACN.8.31.2012 10-K Exhibit 10.38 

Exhibit 10.38 

   ACCENTURE LLP  SENIOR EXECUTIVE SEPARATION BENEFITS PLAN 

PLAN DOCUMENT AND  SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION 

APRIL 2010 

ACCENTURE LLP  SENIOR EXECUTIVE  SEPARATION BENEFITS PLAN 
    
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 
                                                                                                                                                    Page Number 
  INTRODUCTION.................................................................................................................................................1 
  ELIGIBILITY........................................................................................................................................................1 
  PARTICIPATION .................................................................................................................................................2 
  SEPARATION BENEFITS ..................................................................................................................................2 
  RETURN OF ACCENTURE PROPERTY/TIME REPORTS ............................................................................3 
  PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT, PERFORMANCE AND COOPERATION........................................................3 
  REEMPLOYMENT .............................................................................................................................................3 
  REPAYMENTS AND FORFEITURES ...............................................................................................................4 
  ADMINISTRATION ............................................................................................................................................4 
  GENERAL ...........................................................................................................................................................5 
  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION ..............................................................................................................6 
  BENEFIT CLAIMS PROCEDURES ..................................................................................................................6 
  RIGHTS UNDER ERISA ....................................................................................................................................7 
  INFORMATION REQUIRED BY ERISA ..........................................................................................................8 
  CERTIFICATE OF ADOPTION ........................................................................................................................10 
  GLOSSARY OF TERMS ...................................................................................................................................11 
  APPENDIX A   SEPARATION BENEFITS FOR A  LEVEL 1 TO LEVEL 3 SENIOR EXECUTIVE ...........14 
  APPENDIX B   SEPARATION BENEFITS FOR A  LEVEL 4 SENIOR EXECUTIVE .................................16 

INTRODUCTION 
  Accenture LLP ( Accenture ) has adopted this Accenture LLP Senior Executive Separation Benefits Plan (the  Program ), effective as of April 15, 2010 (the  Effective Date ), for the benefit of the Eligible Employees.  The Program is an unfunded welfare benefit plan for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (hereinafter  ERISA ), a severance pay plan within the meaning of Department of Labor Reg.   2510.3-2(b) and an involuntary separation pay program under Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii).  Except as otherwise set forth in this document, the Program supersedes each prior Accenture severance plan, program or policy covering an Eligible Employee, both formal and informal, including, but not limited to, the Accenture United States Separation Benefits Plan.  The purpose of the Program is to provide an Eligible Employee who is involuntarily terminated from Accenture with Separation Benefits.  This document serves as both the plan document and summary plan description under ERISA. 
  ELIGIBILITY 
  An Eligible Employee shall become a Participant, and shall receive Separation Benefits subject to the terms and conditions of the Program, if the Eligible Employee s employment with Accenture is involuntarily terminated in connection with the Program and the Eligible Employee submits (and does not later revoke) a signed Separation Agreement to Accenture by the stated deadline below.   
  In no event, however, will an Eligible Employee become a Participant in the Program if any of the following applies to the Eligible Employee: 
             
    the Eligible Employee s employment is terminated for Cause; 
                
    the Eligible Employee s employment terminates because of his voluntary termination, job abandonment, death, or any reason other than in connection with the Program; 
                
    the Eligible Employee accepts an offer for any other position with Accenture (or an Affiliate) prior to the Eligible Employee s Termination Date; 
                
    the Eligible Employee requests to return to employment with Accenture following an unpaid leave of absence or a period of long-term disability, and Accenture determines that there are no available positions for which the Eligible Employee is qualified; provided, however, this provision shall not apply to an Eligible Employee returning from a leave of absence which has a legally-protected status (such as Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) leave); 
                
    in connection with a business transaction involving Accenture or an Affiliate (including, without limitation, a sale of assets of Accenture, an outsourcing transaction, or a contractual arrangement with a third party), the Eligible Employee is offered a position with the other party to the transaction (or one of its affiliates) prior to the Eligible Employee s Termination Date; 

the Eligible Employee is a Level 1 to Level 3 Senior Executive (and not a Level 4 Senior Executive) who becomes eligible to receive long-term disability benefits from Accenture; or 
                
    the Eligible Employee fails to comply with any condition set forth in the Program.   
     All determinations of eligibility for the Program shall be made by Accenture in its sole discretion. 
  PARTICIPATION 
  Only Participants are eligible for Separation Benefits.  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Program, a Participant whose employment is involuntarily terminated in connection with the Program shall be entitled to the Separation Benefits set forth in the applicable appendix.  Eligible Employees will be required to sign a Separation Agreement and all other documentation to become a Participant and receive Separation Benefits.  Eligible Employees shall also be required to sign a document entitled  Amendment to Restricted Share Unit and Other Grant Agreements  that shall be included in the Participant s departure documentation.  Eligible Employees shall be advised to consult a personal attorney to review the Separation Agreement.   
  An Eligible Employee must submit a signed Separation Agreement to Accenture not earlier than his or her Termination Date and not after the deadline set forth in the Separation Agreement.  An Eligible Employee may have a right to revoke the Separation Agreement.  If such a right exists, it shall be set forth in the Separation Agreement.  Any such revocation must be in writing and must be received by Accenture during the time frame set forth in the Separation Agreement.  An Eligible Employee who chooses not to submit a signed Separation Agreement to Accenture or who effectively revokes the signed Separation Agreement, shall nonetheless terminate employment as of his or her Termination Date but will not be eligible to receive Separation Benefits.  As noted above, Separation Agreements will not be accepted prior to an Eligible Employee s Termination Date nor after the deadline set forth in the Separation Agreement. 
  Signed Separation Agreements (and any other accompanying documents to be signed) must be faxed to Accenture Exit Services Team at (312) 737-9391 or mailed to the following address: 
  Accenture Exit Services Team  c/o HR Transactions  6415 Babcock, Suite 100  San Antonio, TX 78249-2963 
  In the event an Eligible Employee breaches the provisions of the Separation Agreement, the payment of Separation Benefits shall cease and Accenture shall exercise, and the Eligible Employee shall be bound by, the remedies provided in the Separation Agreement. 
  SEPARATION BENEFITS 
  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Program, a Participant shall receive Separation Benefits as provided in the applicable appendix.  A Level 1 to Level 3 Senior Executive shall be  

entitled to the Separation Benefits in Appendix A.  Level 4 Senior Executives are entitled to the Separation Benefits in Appendix B.  
  RETURN OF ACCENTURE PROPERTY/TIME REPORTS 
  As a condition of receiving Separation Benefits under the Program, an Eligible Employee must return to Accenture all Accenture property (e.g., building keys, credit cards, documents and records, identification cards, office equipment, portable computers, car/mobile phones, parking cards, computer diskettes).  In addition, the balance of any expense against an Eligible Employee s Accenture personnel number must be zero, an Eligible Employee must submit final time reports, submit all outstanding expense receipts, and have no balance on any Accenture related credit cards or credit accounts, including but not limited to a Corporate American Express card.  If an Eligible Employee has a credit card or credit account balance, the Plan Administrator may require such Eligible Employee to pay the entire outstanding balance in full within sixty (60) days of the Termination Date before he or she may be entitled to receive Separation Benefits.  Any Accenture property must be returned to Accenture no later than the Eligible Employee s Termination Date. 
  Accenture reserves the right, exercisable in its sole discretion, to reduce (on a dollar-for-dollar basis) the amount of any Separation Benefits payable to a Participant under the Program by any disability, severance, separation, termination pay, or pay-in-lieu of notice amounts that Accenture pays or is required to pay to the Participant through insurance or otherwise under any plan or contract of Accenture (including the amount of any compensation payable and the value of any benefits to be provided during any notice period under an employment agreement with Accenture or any Affiliate) or under any federal or state law (other than unemployment compensation). In addition, Accenture reserves the right, exercisable in its sole discretion, to reduce the amount of Separation Benefits payable to a Participant under the Program by the amount, if any, that the Participant owes Accenture (or an Affiliate). 
  PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT, PERFORMANCE AND COOPERATION 
  As a condition of receiving any Separation Benefits under the Program, each Eligible Employee must:  (i) continue to exhibit professional conduct in the workplace; (ii) adhere to all Accenture practices and policies; (iii) perform his or her regular job duties and responsibilities in accordance with required performance standards; (iv) successfully transition job activities; and (v) cooperate with Accenture personnel in matters relating to his or her position or termination.  If an Eligible Employee does not comply with the foregoing requirements during and after the remainder of his or her employment, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion, such Eligible Employee shall forfeit all benefits under the Program. 
  REEMPLOYMENT 
  If a Participant accepts a job offer from Accenture or an Affiliate after his Termination Date, but prior to payment of his Separation Benefits, the Participant shall not be entitled to receive Separation Benefits.  If a Participant is re-employed by Accenture or an Affiliate after receiving Separation Pay, he must repay to Accenture an amount equal to his Separation Pay but not the cost of any Professional Outplacement Services.  Such repayment must be made within fifteen  

(15) days following reemployment (or such later date as may be specified by Accenture).  A Participant will not, however, be required to repay Separation Pay in the following circumstances: 
             
    A Participant will not be required to repay any portion of the Separation Pay if Accenture decides not to apply this requirement to such Participant.  Accenture has complete discretion to decide whether (and to what extent) to require repayment by any particular Participant, taking into account, among other things, the best interests of Accenture and its Affiliates. 
                
    A Participant will not be required to repay his Separation Pay if such Participant is rehired by Accenture or an Affiliate after a period equal to the total number of weeks represented by that Participant s Separation Pay.  If a Participant is rehired by Accenture or an Affiliate prior to expiration of the period equal to the total number of weeks represented by that Participant s Separation Pay, the Participant shall be required to repay a prorated portion of that Participant s Separation Pay.  
     REPAYMENTS AND FORFEITURES 
  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Program, a Participant shall reimburse Accenture for the full amount of Separation Benefits received by the Participant under the Program if the Participant subsequently discloses any of Accenture s (or an Affiliate s) trade secrets, violates any written covenants or agreements with Accenture or an Affiliate, including but not limited to non-compete and non-solicitation provisions in any employment or equity agreement, or otherwise engages in conduct that may adversely affect Accenture s (or an Affiliate s) reputation or business relations. In addition, any Participant described in the preceding sentence shall forfeit any right to benefits under the Program that have not yet been paid. Accenture shall take such steps as it deems necessary or desirable to enforce the provisions of this subsection. 
  ADMINISTRATION 
  Accenture is responsible for the administration and operation of the Program.  Accenture is the Program s  plan administrator  and  named fiduciary  (within the meaning of such terms under ERISA).  Accenture may adopt from time to time such rules as may be necessary or desirable for the proper and efficient administration of the Program and as are consistent with the terms of the Program.  These rules will be applied on a uniform basis to similarly situated individuals.  In administering the Program, Accenture shall have the authority, exercisable in its sole discretion, to construe and interpret the provisions of the Program and to make factual determinations thereunder, including the discretionary authority to determine the eligibility of employees (or other individuals) and the amount of benefits payable under the Program.  Any decisions made by Accenture shall be final and conclusive with respect to all questions concerning the Program.  No benefits will be provided to any individual under the Program unless Accenture decides in its sole discretion that the individual is entitled to benefits under the Program.  Accenture may delegate to one or more of its employees or other persons the responsibility for performing Accenture s powers, rights, and duties under the terms of the Program and may seek such expert advice as Accenture deems necessary with respect to the Program. 

GENERAL 
  Information to be Furnished by Participants  .    Each Participant must furnish to Accenture such documents, evidence, data, or other information as Accenture considers necessary or desirable for the purpose of administering the Program.  Benefits under the Program for each Participant are provided on the condition that the Participant will furnish full, true, and complete data, evidence, or other information and that the Participant will promptly sign any document required under the Program or requested by Accenture. 
  Employment Rights  .    The Program does not constitute a contract of employment and participation in the Program will not give a Participant the right to be rehired or retained in the employ of Accenture on any basis, nor will participation in the Program give any Participant any right or claim to any benefit under the Program, unless such right or claim has specifically accrued under the terms of the Program. 
  Decision Final  .    Any interpretation of the Program or any decision on any matter within the sole discretion of Accenture made by Accenture is binding on all persons. 
  Evidence  .    Evidence required of anyone under the Program may be by certificate, affidavit, document, or other information which the person relying thereon considers pertinent and reliable, and signed, made, or presented by the proper party or parties. 
  Gender and Number  .    Where the context permits, words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders, the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural. 
  Controlling Laws  .    Except to the extent superseded by ERISA, the internal laws of the State of Illinois shall apply to all matters related the Program (including questions of conflicts of law). 
  Interests Not Transferable  .    Except as otherwise set forth in this document, the interests of persons entitled to benefits under the Program are not subject to their debts or other obligations and, except as may be required by the tax withholding provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any state s income tax act, or pursuant to an agreement between a Participant and Accenture, may not be voluntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned, or encumbered. 
  Mistake of Fact  .    Any mistake of fact or misstatement of fact shall be corrected when it becomes known and proper adjustment made by reason thereof.  A Participant must repay to Accenture any benefits paid under this Program by mistake of fact or law. 
  Severability  .    In the event any provision of the Program is held to be illegal or invalid for any reason, such illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Program, and the Program shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal or invalid provisions had never been included in the Program. 
  Withholding  .    Accenture reserves the right to withhold from any amounts payable under this Program all federal, state, city, and local taxes as shall be legally required, as well as any other  

amounts authorized or required by Accenture policy including, but not limited to, withholding for garnishments and judgments or other court orders. 
  Effect on Other Plans  .    Payments or benefits provided to a Participant under any deferred compensation, savings, retirement, or other employee benefit plan of Accenture are governed solely by the terms of such plan.  Nothing in this Program shall limit Accenture s right to, at any time or for any reason, modify, amend, or terminate any of Accenture s employee benefit or compensation plans, programs, policies, or arrangements. 
  Unfunded Benefit  .    All benefits payable under this Program shall be paid directly by Accenture out of its general assets.  Accenture shall not be required to segregate on its books or otherwise any amount to be used for the payment of benefits under this Program. 
  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 
  Accenture reserves the right to amend the Program at any time and to alter, reduce, or eliminate any benefit under the Program (in whole or in part) at any time or to terminate the Program at any time, as to any class or classes of employees (including former employees), without prior notice.  Any amendment of the Program may be made by proper action of an officer of Accenture.  No employee, officer, director, or agent of Accenture has the authority to alter, vary, or modify the terms of the Program, except by means of an authorized amendment to the Program.  No verbal or written representations contrary to the terms of the Program and its proper amendments shall be binding upon Accenture or the Program. 
  BENEFIT CLAIMS PROCEDURES 
  No person needs to apply for benefits under the Program.  However, if a Participant wishes to file a claim for benefits, he or she (or his or her authorized representative) may make a claim by filing a written description of the claim with Accenture.  Accenture will notify the claimant in writing if the claim is granted.  If the claim is denied, Accenture will notify the claimant of its decision, setting forth the specific reasons for the denial, references to the Program provisions on which the denial is based, additional information necessary to perfect the claim, if any, and a description of the procedure for review of the denial.  Any written claim decision will be sent to the claimant within 90 days (or 180 days if extension is warranted by special circumstances) after Accenture received the claim. 
  A claimant may request a review of a complete or partial denial of the claim for benefits.  Any such request must be in writing and must be received by Accenture within 60 days after the claimant received the notice of the denial of the claim.  The claimant will be entitled to review pertinent Program documents and submit written issues and comments to Accenture.  Within 60 days (or 120 days if extension is warranted by special circumstances) after Accenture receives the request for review, Accenture will furnish the claimant with written notice of its decision, setting forth the specific reasons for the decision and references to the pertinent Program provisions on which the decision is based. 
  No person may challenge a decision of Accenture in court or in any other administrative proceeding unless he or she has complied with the claim and appeal procedures described above and such procedures have been completed.  If a claim for benefits is finally denied by Accenture,  

the claimant may only bring suit in court (or other administrative proceeding) if he or she files such action within 120 days after the date of the final denial of the claim by Accenture.  No action at law or in equity shall be brought to recover benefits under this Program until the appeal rights herein provided have been exercised and the Program benefits requested in such appeal have been denied in whole or in part. 
  All decisions and communications to Participants or other persons regarding a claim for benefits under the Program shall be held strictly confidential by the Participant (or other claimant), Accenture, and their agents. 
  RIGHTS UNDER ERISA 
  Each Participant in the Program is entitled to certain rights and protections under ERISA.  ERISA provides that Participants will be entitled to: 
             
    Examine, without charge, at Accenture s offices, all documents governing the Program, and a copy of the latest annual report (Form 5500 series) filed by Accenture with the U.S. Department of Labor and available at the Public Disclosure Room of the Employee Benefits Security Administration. 
                
    Upon written request to Accenture, obtain copies of documents governing the operation of the Program, a copy of the latest annual report (Form 5500 series), and an updated summary plan description.  Accenture may make a reasonable charge for the copies. 
     In addition to creating rights for Participants, ERISA imposes duties upon the people who are responsible for the operation of the Program.  The people who operate the Program, called  fiduciaries  of the Program, have a duty to do so prudently and in the interest of the Participants.  No one, including Accenture or any other person, may fire any person or otherwise discriminate against a person in any way to prevent him or her from obtaining a benefit or exercising his or her rights under ERISA.  If a claim for benefits is denied, in whole or in part, the claimant has the right to know why this was done, obtain copies of documents relating to the decision without charge, and to appeal any denial, all within certain time schedules. 
  Under ERISA, there are steps a person can take to enforce the above rights.  For instance, if a person requests a copy of the Program documents or the Program s latest annual report from Accenture and such person does not receive them within thirty days, he or she may file suit in a federal court.  In such case, the court may require Accenture to provide the requested materials and pay such person up to $110 per day until he or she receives the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of Accenture.  If a person has a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, he or she may file suit in a state or federal court.  If it should happen that the fiduciaries misuse a plan s money, or if he or she is discriminated against for asserting his or her rights, he or she may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor or may file suit in a federal court.  The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees.  If a person is successful in the lawsuit, the court may order  

the person sued to pay these cost fees.  If the person filing the lawsuit loses, the court may order that person to pay these costs and fees; for instance, if it finds the claim to be frivolous. 
  If a person has any questions about the Program, he or she should contact Accenture.  If that person has any questions about this statement or about ERISA, he or she should contact the nearest area office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, listed in the telephone directory, or the Division of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210.  A person also may obtain certain publications about the rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration. 
  INFORMATION REQUIRED BY ERISA 
                   a. 
    Name of Plan 
    Accenture LLP  Senior Executive Separation Benefits Plan 
      b. 
    Effective Date 
    April 15, 2010 
      c. 
    Plan Year 
    Calendar Year 
      d. 
    Plan Number 
    [702] 
      e. 
    Type of Plan 
    The Program is an employee welfare benefit plan as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA. 
      f. 
    Plan Sponsor 
    Accenture LLP  161 North Clark Street   Chicago, Illinois  60601 
      g. 
    Plan Sponsor s Identification No. 
    72-0542904 
      h. 
    Plan Administrator 
    Accenture LLP  161 North Clark Street  Chicago, Illinois  60601   Attn:  Mary B. Fulton  (800) 207-2109 
      i. 
    Agent for Service of   Legal Process 
    General Counsel  c/o Joel A. Stern and/or Ronald J. Roberts  Accenture LLP   161 North Clark Street  23   rd    Floor  Chicago, Illinois 60601 
      j. 
    Separation Agreements/Notices 
    Signed Separation Agreements or revocation notices should be sent to Accenture either by fax or by mail to the location specified in the Separation Agreement. 

Any other notices or documents required to be given or filed with Accenture under the Program will be properly given or filed if delivered or mailed, by registered mail, postage prepaid, to Accenture at: 

Accenture LLP  161 North Clark Street   Chicago, Illinois  60601   Attn:  Mary B. Fulton 

CERTIFICATE OF ADOPTION 
    
  WHEREAS, Accenture LLP desires to adopt and maintain the Accenture LLP Senior Executive Separation Benefits Plan (the  Program ) for the benefit of its eligible employees, effective as of April 15, 2010. 
  NOW, THEREFORE, Accenture LLP, acting through its duly authorized representative, hereby adopts the Program, effective as of April 15, 2010, in its entirety in the form included hereto, which document may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same document. 
  Dated this 15th day of April, 2010. 
    
               Sincerely, 

Kristi M. Erickson 
      Executive Director HR   North America 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
   Active Medical Plan  means the Accenture United States Group Medical Plan, as amended from time to time. 
   Affiliate  means any entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, Accenture or any other entity in which Accenture or an Affiliate has an interest and which has been designated as an Affiliate by the Board of Directors of Accenture pursuant to the terms of the Accenture Share Incentive Plan (as amended from time to time).  Affiliate as used herein shall expressly include Accenture plc and Accenture SCA. 
   Base Salary  means a Participant s base compensation (as specified by Accenture), determined as of the Participant s Termination Date, excluding overtime, bonus, incentive pay, or any other special compensation such as quarterly variable compensation and annual variable compensation.  For purposes of determining Separation Pay (as described in the  Separation Benefits  section of this document), Base Pay of a Participant classified by Accenture as a part time employee as of his or her Termination Date shall reflect the part-time percentage in effect on his or her Termination Date. 
   Cause  means  cause  as defined in any employment agreement then in effect between an Eligible Employee and Accenture, or if not defined therein, or if there shall be no such agreement, the Eligible Employee s (i) embezzlement, misappropriation of corporate funds, or other material acts of dishonesty; (ii) commission or conviction of any felony, or of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or entry of a plea of guilty or   nolo contendere   to any felony or misdemeanor; (iii) engagement in any activity that the Eligible Employee knows or should know could harm the business or reputation of Accenture or an Affiliate; (iv) material failure to adhere to Accenture s or an Affiliate s corporate codes, policies or procedures as in effect from time to time; (v) willful failure to perform his or her assigned duties, repeated absenteeism or tardiness, insubordination, or the refusal or failure to comply with the directions or instructions of his or her supervisor, as determined by Accenture or an Affiliate; (vi) violation of any statutory, contractual, or common law duty or obligation to Accenture or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the duty of loyalty; or (vii) material breach of any confidentiality or non-competition covenant entered into between the Eligible Employee and Accenture or an Affiliate.  The determination of the existence of Cause shall be made by Accenture in good faith, and such determination shall be conclusive for purposes of the Program. 
   COBRA Continuation Coverage  means continued coverage after a Participant s Termination Date under the Active Medical Plan and/or the Dental Plan, pursuant to the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA). 
   COBRA Payment  means that portion of the Separation Pay that does not constitute the base benefit or variable benefit. 
   Dental Plan  means the Accenture United States Group Dental Plan, as amended from time to time. 
   Deficient Performance  means, as determined by Accenture in its sole discretion, an employee who (i) has demonstrated significant performance deficiencies which have been documented, (ii)  

has been given a written action plan for improving his or her performance, or (iii) has been given written documentation that describes the consequences of the individual s failure to address deficiencies in the performance of his or her job.  The term  Deficient Performance  excludes any reason determined by Accenture to constitute  Cause.  
   Eligible Employee  means an individual who is, as of the individual s Termination Date: 
           (a) 
    an employee on Accenture s regular payroll in the United States; 
              (b) 
    designated as a Level 1   Level 4  Senior Executive  
              (c) 
    notified that he or she is being involuntarily terminated because his or her role is being eliminated, his or her skill set is not relevant to current organizational needs, of over-capacity, the individual was unsuccessful in completing a performance improvement program, or for performance issues not in connection with a performance improvement to program (but not for Cause); and 
              (d) 
    notified that he or she is eligible under this Program. 
      ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 
   Month(s) of Pay  means the amount determined by dividing a Participant s annual Base Salary by twelve (12). 
   Participant  means an Eligible Employee who has been selected for participation in the Program and who has satisfied all the conditions for Separation Benefits under the Program. 
   Performance Reasons  means the Senior Executive was terminated (a) because he or she was unsuccessful in completing a three (3) month Requires Improvement plan, or (b) for Deficient Performance. 
   Program  means this Accenture LLP Senior Executive Separation Benefits Plan. 
   Professional Outplacement Services  means services provided by an outside firm selected by Accenture, in its discretion. 
   Separation Agreement  means the agreement provided to an Eligible Employee which the Eligible Employee must execute and not later revoke to become a Participant. 
   Separation Benefits  means the benefits to which a Participant is entitled under the terms of the Program upon execution (and without revocation) of a Separation Agreement.   
   Separation Pay  mean the base benefit, variable benefit and COBRA Payment that a Participant is entitled to receive in consideration for executive and, where applicable, not revoking the Separation Agreement. 
   Termination Date  means the date specified by Accenture for termination of an Eligible Employee s employment with Accenture. 

Week of Pay  means the amount determined by dividing a Participant s annual Base Salary by fifty-two (52). 
   Years of Service  means, with respect to a Participant, each complete twelve-month period of the Participant s service with Accenture or an Affiliate beginning with the earlier of (i) the Participant s most recent date of hire with a business entity which Accenture or an Affiliate acquired, or (ii) the Participant s most recent date of hire with Accenture or an Affiliate (based on the applicable payroll records) and ending on his or her Termination Date.  Periods of service prior to a Participant s most recent date of hire with the acquired entity, Accenture or an Affiliate, as determined pursuant to the preceding sentence, shall not be counted for purposes of the Program.  Years of Service shall not include accrued but unused vacation time, sick leave, personal time, or any other paid-time off.  Only complete Years of Service shall be counted as Years of Service. 

APPENDIX A          SEPARATION BENEFITS FOR A   LEVEL 1 TO LEVEL 3 SENIOR EXECUTIVE 
  A Level 1 to Level 3 Senior Executive shall be entitled to the Separation Benefits set forth in this Appendix A. 
  Separation Pay 
  The amount of Separation Pay that a Participant shall be entitled to receive depends upon the circumstances of the Participant s termination and his or her Years of Service, as described in the charts below.   
  Standard Package 
  Each Participant terminated other than for Performance Reasons shall be entitled to receive Separation Pay which shall consist of (1) a base benefit determined by the Participant s career level as of the Termination Date, (2) a variable benefit based on the Participant s Years of Service, and (3) a COBRA Payment (more fully described below).  The total amount of a Participant s base and variable benefits are subject to a maximum as set forth below. 
    
                       Senior Executive  Career Level 
    Base Benefit 
    Variable Benefit     
    Maximum Total of Base and Variable Benefits 
    COBRA Payment 
      Level 1-3  Senior Executive 
    6 Months of Pay 
    1 Week of Pay for each complete Year of Service (rounded down to last complete Year of Service) 
    8 Months of Pay 
    $12,000 

Performance Package 
  Each Participant terminated for Performance Reasons shall be entitled to receive Separation Pay as outlined below:   

Unless otherwise required by law, Separation Pay shall be paid on the next regular payroll date following the date Accenture receives the signed Separation Agreement or, in the case of a Participant entitled to revoke the signed Separation Agreement, the next regular payroll date following the date the applicable revocation period expires (or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter in accordance with Accenture s payroll procedures).  If a Participant dies before receiving full payment of his Separation Pay, such amounts will be paid to his estate 
  If a Participant is on a short-term disability ( STD ) leave as of his or her Termination Date or was scheduled to commence an STD leave no later than thirty (30) days  

following his or her Termination Date, the Participant s Separation Pay also shall include additional Weeks of Pay (as described below) for the lesser of (i) the number of weeks (if any) remaining in the paid-time portion of his or her scheduled STD leave, or (ii) six (6) weeks.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the number of weeks in (or remaining in) the paid-time portion of a Participant s scheduled leave is not known prior to the payment of his or her Separation Pay, the Participant shall receive six (6) Weeks of Pay.  For purposes of this paragraph only, a  Week of Pay  means a Participant s STD pay as determined by Accenture in accordance with Accenture s Short-Term Disability Leave Policy, as amended from time to time. 
  Professional Outplacement Services 
  As additional consideration for signing and not later revoking the Separation Agreement, each Participant, including a Participant terminated for Performance Reasons, shall be entitled to participate in a 12-month senior executive Professional Outplacement Services program to be provided by an outside firm selected by Accenture.  Each Participant shall receive from Accenture separate, detailed information about the Professional Outplacement Services program, including the types of available services, how to enroll, and the locations of available programs.  No Participant may receive cash in lieu of the Professional Outplacement Services.   A Participant must enroll in the Professional Outplacement Services program in order to participate; enrollment is not automatic.  A Participant may enroll in the Professional Outplacement Services program not before the later of the date the Participant submits the Separation Agreement or, in the case of a Participant entitled to revoke the Separation Agreement, upon expiration of the applicable Separation Agreement.  A Participant must enroll in the Professional Outplacement Services program no later than sixty (60) days after the Termination Date or, in the case of a Participant entitled to revoke the Separation Agreement, no later than sixty (60) days after the date the revocation period expires. 
  COBRA Payment 
  The Participant shall be entitled to receive the COBRA Payment whether or not the Participant is enrolled for coverage in the Active Medical Plan and/or Dental Plan and whether or not the Participant elects COBRA Continuation Coverage.  To receive COBRA Continuation Coverage, a Participant must elect such coverage in accordance with the terms of the Active Medical Plan and/or Dental Plan and otherwise comply with the terms and conditions that apply.   
  Equity Compensation 
  A Participant s termination of employment affects his or her rights and responsibilities under the various forms of equity compensation received during employment.  These may include Founders Shares, Promotion Awards, Celebratory Awards, awards under the Bonus Share Program and may include restricted stock units and stock options.  The type of award, the Participant s age and the date the equity was awarded, among other factors, may all be relevant for determining how termination of employment affects equity compensation.  Each Participant should review the terms of the applicable equity compensation plan document and grant agreements to determine how termination of employment affects equity compensation. 

</EX-10.38>

<EX-21.1>
 9
 acn831201210-kexhibit211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

ACN.8.31.2012 10-K Exhibit 21.1 

Exhibit 21.1 
  Subsidiaries of the Registrant 
  Certain subsidiaries of the registrant and their subsidiaries are listed below. 
    
                   Name 
       
    Country of Organization 
      Sistemes Consulting S.A 
       
    Andorra 
      Accenture SRL 
       
    Argentina 
      Accenture Service Center SRL 
       
    Argentina 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Pty Ltd. 
       
    Australia 
      Accenture Australia Holdings Pty Ltd. 
       
    Australia 
      Avanade Australia Pty Ltd. 
       
    Australia 
      Navitaire Australia Pty Ltd. 
       
    Australia 
      Accenture GmbH 
       
    Austria 
      Accenture Technology Solutions GmbH 
       
    Austria 
      Accenture BPM CVBA/SCRL 
       
    Belgium 
      Accenture S.A.\.N.V. 
       
    Belgium 
      Accenture Technology Solutions NV/SA 
       
    Belgium 
      Accenture Technology Ventures S.P.R.L. 
       
    Belgium 
      Avanade Belgium SPRL 
       
    Belgium 
      Accenture Australia Ltd. 
       
    Bermuda 
      Accenture Australia (1) Ltd. 
       
    Bermuda 
      Accenture Australia (2) Ltd. 
       
    Bermuda 
      Accenture Australia (3) Ltd. 
       
    Bermuda 
      Blue Insurance Ltd. 
       
    Bermuda 
      ENMAX Technology Bolivia S.A. 
       
    Bolivia 
      Accenture (Botswana) (PTY) Ltd. 
      
    Botswana 
      Accenture do Brasil Ltda 
       
    Brazil 
      Accenture Automacao e TI Industrial Ltda 
       
    Brazil 
      Accenture Servicos de Suporte de Negocios Ltda 
       
    Brazil 
      Accenture Servicos Administrativos 
      
    Brazil 
      BPO Servicos Administrativos Ltda 
      
    Brazil 
      Avanade do Brasil Ltda 
       
    Brazil 
      Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. 
       
    Canada 
      Accenture Inc. 
       
    Canada 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Canada, Inc. 

Also known as Solutions technologiques Accenture Canada, Inc. 
       
    Canada 
      Accenture Business Services of British Columbia Limited Partnership 
       
    Canada 
      Accenture Business Services for Utilities Inc. 
       
    Canada 
      Accenture Nova Scotia Unlimited Liability Co. 
       
    Canada 
      Avanade Canada Inc. 
       
    Canada 
      Accenture Chile Asesorias y Servicios Ltda 
       
    Chile 
      Neo Metrics Chile, S.A. 
      
    Chile 
      Accenture (China) Co Ltd. 
       
    China 

Name 
       
    Country of Organization 
      Accenture Technology Solutions (Dalian) Co Ltd. 
       
    China 
      Guangzhou Bao Zhe Information Consulting Co Ltd. 
       
    China 
      Qi Jie (Beijing) Info Tech Co Ltd. 
       
    China 
      Avanade Guangzhou 
       
    China 
      Avanade GZ Computer Technology Development Co. Ltd. (SH) 
       
    China 
      Accenture Ltda 
       
    Colombia 
      Accenture Services s.r.o 
       
    Czech Republic 
      Accenture Technology Solutions s.r.o. 
       
    Czech Republic 
      Accenture Denmark Holdings A/S 
       
    Denmark 
      Avanade Denmark ApS 
       
    Denmark 
      ENMAX Technology-Ecuador S.A. 
       
    Ecuador 
      Accenture Egypt LLC 
       
    Egypt 
      Accenture Oy 
       
    Finland 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Oy 
       
    Finland 
      Accenture Services Oy 
       
    Finland 
      Avanade Finland Oy 
       
    Finland 
      Digiplug SAS 
       
    France 
      Accenture Technology Solutions SAS 
       
    France 
      InVita SAS 
       
    France 
      Avanade SAS 
       
    France 
      Accenture Investment Processing Services SAS 
      
    France 
      Accenture Holdings France SAS 
       
    France 
      Insurance Services SAS 
       
    France 
      Acceria SAS 
       
    France 
      Accenture GmbH 
       
    Germany 
      Accenture Management GmbH 
       
    Germany 
      Accenture Holding GmbH   Co. KG 
       
    Germany 
      Accenture Dienstleistungen GmbH 
       
    Germany 
      Accenture Services GmbH 
       
    Germany 
      Accenture Technology Solutions GmbH 
       
    Germany 
      Accenture Services f r Kreditinstitute GmbH 
       
    Germany 
      Avanade Deutschland GmbH 
       
    Germany 
      Accenture CAS GmbH 
       
    Germany 
      Accenture Finance (Gibraltar) III Ltd. 
       
    Gibraltar 
      Accenture Minority III Ltd. 
       
    Gibraltar 
      Accenture PLC 
       
    Gibraltar 
      Accenture S.A. 
       
    Greece 
      Accenture BPM S.A. 
       
    Greece 
      Accenture Co Ltd. 
       
    Hong Kong SAR 
      Accenture Technology Solutions (HK) Co. Ltd. 
       
    Hong Kong SAR 
      Avanade Hong Kong Ltd. 
       
    Hong Kong SAR 
      Accenture Tanacsado Korlatolt Felelossegu Tarsasag KFT 

(Also known as Accenture KFT) 
       
    Hungary 

Name 
       
    Country of Organization 
      Accenture Services Private Ltd. 
       
    India 
      P.T. Accenture 
       
    Indonesia 
      Accenture 
       
    Ireland 
      Accenture Global Services Ltd. 
       
    Ireland 
      Accenture Defined Benefit Pension Plan Trustees Ltd 
       
    Ireland 
      Accenture Defined Contribution Pension Plan Trustees Ltd 
       
    Ireland 
      Accenture IOM 1 Company Limited 
       
    Isle of Man 
      Accenture IOM 2 Company Limited 
       
    Isle of Man 
      Accenture Ltd. 
       
    Israel 
      Accenture SpA 
       
    Italy 
      Accenture Technology Solutions SRL 
       
    Italy 
      Accenture Outsourcing SRL 
       
    Italy 
      Accenture Insurance Services SpA 
       
    Italy 
      Accenture Finance and Accounting BPO Services SpA 
       
    Italy 
      Accenture HR Services SpA/TESS SpA 
       
    Italy 
      Avanade Italy SRL 
       
    Italy 
      Accenture Japan Ltd. 
       
    Japan 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Japan KK 
       
    Japan 
      Avanade Japan KK 
       
    Japan 
      Sopia Corporation (Kabushiki Kaisha Sopia) 
       
    Japan 
      Renacentis IT Services, Co. Ltd 
      
    Japan 
      Accenture East Africa Ltd. 
       
    Kenya 
      Accenture S rl 
       
    Luxembourg 
      Accenture S.C.A. 
       
    Luxembourg 
      Accenture International S rl 
       
    Luxembourg 
      Accenture International Capital SCA 
       
    Luxembourg 
      Accenture Sdn. Bhd 
       
    Malaysia 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Sdn Bhd 
       
    Malaysia 
      Accenture Solutions Sdn Bhd 
       
    Malaysia 
      Advent Business Services Sdn. Bhd 
       
    Malaysia 
      Avanade Malaysia Sdn Bhd 
       
    Malaysia 
      Accenture Services (Mauritius) Ltd. 
       
    Mauritius 
      AP Holdings Co Ltd. 
       
    Mauritius 
      Accenture S.C. 
       
    Mexico 
      Operaciones Accenture S.A. de C.V. 
       
    Mexico 
      Accenture Technology Solutions S.C. 
       
    Mexico 
      Servicios Tecnicos de Programacion Accenture S.C. 
       
    Mexico 
      Accenture Service Centre Morocco SA 
       
    Morocco 
      Accenture Holdings B.V. 
       
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Branch Holdings B.V. 
       
    Netherlands 

Name 
       
    Country of Organization 
      Accenture Middle East B.V. 
       
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Central Europe B.V. 
       
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Australia Holding B.V. 
       
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Korea BV 
       
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Technology Ventures BV 
       
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Participations BV 
       
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Minority I BV 
       
    Netherlands 
      Accenture BV 
       
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Insurance Services BV 
       
    Netherlands 
      Avanade Netherlands BV 
       
    Netherlands 
      Partners Technology Mexico Holdings BV 
       
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Equity Finance BV 
       
    Netherlands 
      Accenture NZ Limited 
       
    New Zealand 
      Accenture Ltd. 
       
    Nigeria 
      Accenture AS 
       
    Norway 
      Avanade Norway AS 
       
    Norway 
      Accenture Inc. 
       
    Philippines 
      Accenture Healthcare Processing Inc. 
       
    Philippines 
      Accenture Sp. z.o.o. 
       
    Poland 
      Accenture Services Sp. z.o.o. 
       
    Poland 
      Accenture Consultores de Gestao S.A. 
       
    Portugal 
      Accenture Technology Solutions S.A. 
       
    Portugal 
      Accenture Technology Solutions-Solucoes Informaticas Integrados, S.A. 
       
    Portugal 
      Accenture Services S.r.l. 
       
    Romania 
      Accenture OOO 
       
    Russia 
      Accenture Saudi Arabia Ltd 
      
    Saudi Arabia 
      Accenture Pte Ltd. 
       
    Singapore 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Pte Ltd. 
       
    Singapore 
      Avanade Asia Pte Ltd. 
       
    Singapore 
      Accenture s.r.o. 
       
    Slovak Republic 
      Accenture Services s.r.o. 
       
    Slovak Republic 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Slovakia s.r.o. 
       
    Slovak Republic 
      Accenture (South Africa) Pty Ltd. 
       
    South Africa 
      Accenture Services (South Africa) Pty Ltd. 
       
    South Africa 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Pty Ltd. 
       
    South Africa 
      Accenture Africa Pty Ltd. 
       
    South Africa 
      Accenture Technology Infrastructure Services Pty Ltd. 
       
    South Africa 
      Avanade South Africa 
      
    South Africa  
      Accenture Yuhan Hoesa Also known as Accenture Ltd. 
       
    South Korea 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Ltd. 
       
    South Korea 
      Accenture S.L. 
       
    Spain 
      Accenture Outsourcing Services S.A. 
       
    Spain 
      Accenture Human Capital Mgmt. Sol. S.L. 
       
    Spain 
      Accenture Holdings (Iberia) S.L. 
       
    Spain 
      Coritel S.A. 
       
    Spain 

Name 
       
    Country of Organization 
      Alnova Technologies Corporation S.L. 
       
    Spain 
      Avanade Spain SL 
       
    Spain 
      CustomerWorks Europe SL 
       
    Spain 
      Energuiaweb SL 
       
    Spain 
      Neo Metrics Analytics, S.L. 
      
    Spain 
      Accenture AB 
       
    Sweden 
      Accenture Services AB 
       
    Sweden 
      Avanade Sweden AB 
       
    Sweden 
      Accenture AG 
       
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Technology Solutions AG 
       
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Holding GmbH 
       
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Global Services GmbH 
       
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Finance GmbH 
       
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Finance II GmbH 
       
    Switzerland 
      Avanade Schweiz GmbH 
       
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Services AG 
       
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Supply Chain Services 
       
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Co Ltd. 
       
    Taiwan 
      Accenture Solutions Co Ltd. 
       
    Thailand 
      Accenture Co Ltd. 
       
    Thailand 
      Accenture Technolgy Solutions (Thailand) Ltd. 
       
    Thailand 
      Avanade (Thailand) Co Ltd. 
       
    Thailand 
      Accenture Danismanlik Limited Sirketi 
       
    Turkey 
      Accenture BPM is Yonetimi Limited Sirketi 
       
    Turkey 
      Accenture (UK) Ltd. 
       
    United Kingdom 
      Avanade UK Ltd. 
       
    United Kingdom 
      Avanade Europe Holdings Ltd. 
       
    United Kingdom 
      Avanade Europe Services Ltd. 
       
    United Kingdom 
      The Accenture Group 
       
    United Kingdom 
      Accenture Services Ltd. 
       
    United Kingdom 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Ltd. 
       
    United Kingdom 
      Accenture Properties 
       
    United Kingdom 
      Accenture LLP 
       
    United States 
      Accenture Inc. 
       
    United States 
      Accenture LLC 
       
    United States 
      Accenture Capital Inc. 
       
    United States 
      Accenture Sub Inc. 
       
    United States 
      Avanade Inc. 
       
    United States 
      Avanade International Corporation 
       
    United States 
      Avanade Holdings LLC 
       
    United States 

Name 
       
    Country of Organization 
      Maple Insurance Inc. 
       
    United States 
      Navitaire Inc. 
       
    United States 
      Navitaire International Inc. 
       
    United States 
      Proquire LLC 
       
    United States 
      Accenture National Security Services LLC 
       
    United States 
      Accenture Relocation LLC 
       
    United States 
      Accenture Insurance Services LLC 
       
    United States 
      Accenture Puerto Rico LLC 
       
    United States 
      BABCN LLC 
       
    United States 
      Accenture 2, Inc. 
       
    United States 
      Origin Digital, Inc. 
       
    United States 
      Avanade Fed Services LLC 
       
    United States 
      Accenture C.A. 
       
    Venezuela 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 10
 acn831201210-kexhibit231.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

ACN.8.31.2012 10-K Exhibit 23.1 

Exhibit 23.1 
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  The Board of Directors  
  Accenture plc:  
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (No. 333-166290) on Form S-3 and (No. 333-164737) and (No. 333-65376-99) on Form S-8 of Accenture plc (the  Company ) of our report dated October 30, 2012, with respect to the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Accenture plc as of August 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Shareholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income, and Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended August 31, 2012, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2012, which report appears in the August 31, 2012 annual report on Form 10 K of Accenture plc. 
    
  /s/ KPMG LLP  
  Chicago, Illinois 
  October 30, 2012 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 11
 acn831201210-kexhibit232.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

ACN.8.31.2012 10-K Exhibit 23.2 

Exhibit 23.2 
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  The Board of Directors  
  Accenture plc:  
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (No. 333-166290) on Form S-3 and (No. 333 164737) and (No. 333-65376-99) on Form S-8 of Accenture plc of our report dated October 30, 2012, with respect to the statements of financial condition of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan as of August 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related statements of operations and changes in plan equity for each of the years in the two-year period ended August 31, 2012 and the period from February 4, 2010 (inception) to August 31, 2010, which report appears in the August 31, 2012 annual report on Form 10-K of Accenture plc.  
    
  /s/ KPMG LLP  
  Chicago, Illinois 
  October 30, 2012 

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 12
 acn831201210k-exhibit311.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

ACN.8.31.2012 10K-Exhibit 31.1 

Exhibit 31.1 
  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION 
  I, Pierre Nanterme, certify that: 
  1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Accenture plc for the fiscal year ended   August 31, 2012  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof; 
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
  4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
  (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
  (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
  (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
  5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
  (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: October 30, 2012 

/s/    P  IERRE   N  ANTERME            

Pierre Nanterme 

Chief Executive Officer of Accenture plc 
  (principal executive officer) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 13
 acn831201210k-exhibit312.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

ACN.8.31.2012 10K-Exhibit 31.2 

Exhibit 31.2 
  CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION 
  I, Pamela J. Craig, certify that: 
  1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Accenture plc for the fiscal year ended   August 31, 2012  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof; 
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
  4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
  (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
  (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
  (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
  5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
  (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: October 30, 2012 

/s/    P  AMELA   J. C  RAIG            

Pamela J. Craig 

Chief Financial Officer of Accenture plc 
  (principal financial officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 14
 acn831201210k-exhibit321.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

ACN.8.31.2012 10K-Exhibit 32.1 

Exhibit 32.1 
  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer 
  Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
  As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
  In connection with the Annual Report of Accenture plc (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   August 31, 2012   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Pierre Nanterme, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
  (1) The   Report   fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
  (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: October 30, 2012 

/s/    P  IERRE   N  ANTERME            

Pierre Nanterme 

Chief Executive Officer of Accenture plc 
  (principal executive officer) 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 15
 acn831201210k-exhibit322.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

ACN.8.31.2012 10K-Exhibit 32.2 

Exhibit 32.2 
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer 
  Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
  As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
  In connection with the Annual Report of Accenture plc (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   August 31, 2012   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Pamela J. Craig, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
  (1) The Report   fully   complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
  (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: October 30, 2012 

/s/    P  AMELA   J. C  RAIG            

Pamela J. Craig 

Chief Financial Officer of Accenture plc 
  (principal financial officer) 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 16
 acn831201210-kexhibit991.htm
 ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

ACN.8.31.2012 10-K Exhibit 99.1 

Exhibit 99.1 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  To the Participants of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan and the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Accenture plc: 
    
  We have audited the accompanying statements of financial condition of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  Plan ) as of August 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related statements of operations and changes in plan equity for each of the years in the two-year period ended August 31, 2012  and the period from February 4, 2010 (inception) to August 31, 2010.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Plan s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan as of August 31, 2012 and 2011, and the changes in its financial status for each of the years in the two-year period ended August 31, 2012 and the period from February 4, 2010 (inception) to August 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
  /s/ KPMG LLP  
  Chicago, Illinois 
  October 30, 2012 

ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN 
  STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 
  August 31, 2012 and 2011    

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 
    1 

ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN 
  STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND CHANGES IN PLAN EQUITY 
  For the Years Ended   August 31, 2012 and 2011   and the Period from February 4, 2010 (Inception) to August 31, 2010 

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 
    2 

      ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued) 

1.    PLAN DESCRIPTION 
  The following description of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  Plan ) is provided for general information purposes. Participants in the Plan should refer to the Plan document for more detailed and complete information. Under the Plan, there are two programs through which participants may purchase shares: (1) the Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ) and (2) the Voluntary Equity Investment Program (the  VEIP ). 
  General 
  Under the Plan, which was approved by the shareholders of Accenture plc (the  Company ) at their February 4, 2010 meeting, and approved by the Board of Directors (the  Board ) on December 10, 2009, the Company is authorized to issue or transfer up to   45,000,000   Class A ordinary shares ( Shares ) of the Company. The Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board (the  Committee ), which may delegate its duties and powers in whole or in part as it determines, provided, however, that the Board may, in its sole discretion, take any action designated to the Committee under the Plan as it may deem necessary.  The Company pays all expenses of the Plan. The Shares may consist, in whole or in part, of unissued Shares or previously issued Shares that have been reacquired. 
  The Plan provides eligible employees of the Company or of a participating subsidiary with an opportunity to purchase Shares at a purchase price established by the Committee, which shall in no event be less than 85% of the fair market value of a Share on the purchase date. 
  The  fair market value  on a given date is defined as the arithmetic mean of the high and low prices of the Shares as reported on such date on the composite tape of the principal national securities exchange on which the Shares are listed or admitted to trading, or, if no sale of Shares shall have been reported on the composite tape of any national securities exchange on such date, then the immediately preceding date on which sales of the Shares have been so reported or quoted shall be used. 
  In general, any individual who is an employee of the Company or of a participating subsidiary is eligible to participate in the Plan, except that the Committee may exclude employees (either individually or by reference to a subset thereof) from participation (1) whose customary employment is less than five months per calendar year or 20 hours or less per week; (2) who own shares equaling 5% or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of shares of the Company or any subsidiary; or (3) who are highly compensated employees under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). The Plan does not currently qualify as an  employee stock purchase plan  under Section 423 of the Code and therefore receipt of the Shares will be a taxable event to the participant. The Plan is not subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 
  Contributions 
  Payroll deductions will generally be made from the compensation paid to each participant during an offering period in a whole percentage as elected by the participant but not to exceed the maximum percentage of the participant s compensation (or maximum dollar amount) as is permitted by the Committee. Under the ESPP, the maximum whole percentage is   10%   (up to a maximum of   $7,500   per offering period), provided that no participant will be entitled to purchase, during any calendar year, Shares with an aggregate value in excess of $25,000. Under the VEIP, eligible senior executives may choose to contribute up to 30% of their total compensation towards the purchase of Shares. The amount of the contributions is based on pre-tax cash compensation, but contributions are deducted from after-tax pay each pay period. Individual participation is subject to an aggregate participation limit based on a percentage of total eligible senior executive compensation as defined by the Plan and permitted by the Committee. The aggregate participation limit percentage was 11% prior to July 25, 2012 at which time the Committee resolved to increase the percentage to 15%.  If aggregate compensation is projected to reach this cap, then contributions will stop and participants would be refunded contributions not used to purchase shares. 
    
  A participant may elect his or her percentage of payroll deductions, and change that election, prior to the applicable offering period as determined by the Committee. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a participant cannot change the rate of payroll deductions once an offering period has commenced. All payroll deductions made with respect to a participant are credited to the participant s payroll deduction account under the Plan and are deposited with the general funds of the Company. All funds of participants received or held by the Company under the Plan before purchase or issuance of the Shares are held without liability for interest or other increment. Under the Plan, the ESPP offering periods in fiscal   2012   included the six-month periods ended   November 1, 2011   and   May 1, 2012  . The current offering period commenced on May 2,   2012   and will end on November 1,   2012  . The VEIP has a calendar year offering period and monthly contribution periods in which shares are purchased on the 5   th    of the subsequent month. 
    3 

      ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued) 

Share Purchases 
  As soon as practicable following the end of each ESPP offering period or VEIP contribution period, the number of Shares purchased by each participant is deposited into a brokerage account established in the participant s name. Dividends that are declared on the Shares held in the brokerage account are paid in cash or reinvested. A summary of information with respect to share purchases was as follows: 

As of   August 31, 2012  ,   16,513,511   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares had been issued under the Plan. 
    4 

      ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued) 

Withdrawals 
  Each participant may withdraw from participation in respect of an offering period (either current or future) or from the Plan under such terms and conditions established by the Committee in its sole discretion. Upon a participant s withdrawal, all accumulated payroll deductions in the participant s Plan account are returned without interest (to the extent permitted by applicable local law). A participant is not entitled to any Shares with respect to the applicable offering period, except under the VEIP for those shares purchased in contribution periods prior to withdrawal. A participant is permitted to participate in subsequent offering periods pursuant to terms and conditions established by the Committee in its sole discretion. 
  Adjustments 
  The number of Shares issued or reserved for issuance pursuant to the Plan (or pursuant to outstanding awards) is subject to adjustment on account of share splits, share dividends and other changes in the Shares. In the event of a change in control of the Company, the Committee may take any actions it deems necessary or desirable with respect to any option as of the date of consummation of the change in control. 
  Plan Amendment and Termination 
  The Board may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan, provided, however, that no amendment, alteration or discontinuation will be made that would increase the total number of Shares authorized for the Plan, or without a participant s consent, would materially adversely affect the participant s rights and obligations under the Plan. The Plan will terminate upon the earliest of: (1) the termination of the Plan by the Board; (2) the issuance of all of the Shares reserved for issuance under the Plan; or (3) the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the Plan. The Board has not amended the Plan, except as noted in Note 1 nor initiated actions to terminate the Plan. 
    2.    BASIS OF PRESENTATION 
  The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on the accrual basis of accounting   in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America  . The preparation of financial statements in conformity with   accounting principles   generally accepted   in the United States of America   requires the Plan s management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the accompanying financial statements and disclosures. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 
  As of   August 31, 2012  , Contributions receivable represents payroll deductions from participants with respect to the ESPP offering period beginning May 2,   2012   and ending November 1,   2012  , as well as the VEIP contribution period beginning August 1,   2012   and ending August 31,   2012  . These payroll deductions are held by Accenture plc and/or its affiliates. 
  Plan equity represents net assets available for future share purchases or participant withdrawals. 
    3.    SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
  The Company has evaluated events and transactions subsequent to the Plan s statement of financial condition date. Based on this evaluation, the Company is not aware of any events or transactions that occurred subsequent to the Plan s statement of financial condition date but prior to filing that would require recognition or disclosure in these financial statements. 
    5 

</EX-99.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 17
 acn-20120831.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 18
 acn-20120831.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 19
 acn-20120831_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 20
 acn-20120831_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 21
 acn-20120831_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 22
 acn-20120831_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

