<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20151030_10-K_edgar_data_1467373_0001467373-15-000457_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>15647205</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>493397</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>711016</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5864806</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6194960</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2052873</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>94</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001467373-15-000457.hdr.sgml : 20151030
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20151030130918
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001467373-15-000457
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20150831
FILED AS OF DATE:		20151030
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20151030

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Accenture plc
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001467373
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-BUSINESS SERVICES, NEC [7389]
		IRS NUMBER:				980627530
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			L2
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-34448
		FILM NUMBER:		151186443

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 GRAND CANAL SQUARE
		STREET 2:		GRAND CANAL HARBOUR
		CITY:			DUBLIN
		STATE:			L2
		ZIP:			D2
		BUSINESS PHONE:		353-1-646-2000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 GRAND CANAL SQUARE
		STREET 2:		GRAND CANAL HARBOUR
		CITY:			DUBLIN
		STATE:			L2
		ZIP:			D2

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001467373-15-000457.txt : 20151030

10-K
 1
 acn831201510k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549    
  FORM 10-K 
  (Mark One) 

For the fiscal year ended   August 31, 2015    
  OR 

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 for the transition period from                 to                  

Commission File Number: 001-34448 
  _________________________________ 
  Accenture plc 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
                 Ireland 
    98-0627530 
      (State or other jurisdiction of 
  incorporation or organization) 
    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 

1 Grand Canal Square, 
  Grand Canal Harbour, 
  Dublin 2, Ireland 
  (Address of principal executive offices) 
  (353) (1) 646-2000 
  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                 Title of each class 
    Name of each exchange on which registered 
      Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share 
    New York Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
  Class X ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share 
  (Title of Class) 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes            No   o 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Yes   o      No     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes           No   o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes           No   o 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
                           Large accelerated filer     
      
    Accelerated filer    o 
      
    Non-accelerated filer   o 
      
    Smaller reporting company    o 

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes   o      No     
  The aggregate market value of the common equity of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant on   February 27, 2015   was approximately   $56,398,877,445   based on the closing price of the registrant s Class A ordinary shares, par value   $0.0000225   per share, reported on the New York Stock Exchange on such date of   $90.03   per share and on the par value of the registrant s Class X ordinary shares, par value   $0.0000225   per share. 
  The number of shares of the registrant s Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share, outstanding as of   October 16, 2015   was   806,223,330   (which number includes   181,418,435   issued shares held by the registrant). The number of shares of the registrant s Class X ordinary shares, par value   $0.0000225   per share, outstanding as of   October 16, 2015   was   23,296,299  . 
    
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of the definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A relating to the registrant s Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on February 3, 2016, will be incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III. The definitive proxy statement will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the registrant s fiscal year ended   August 31, 2015  . 

Table of Contents  

   TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 
      Part I 

Item 1. 
     Business  
    1 
      Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    8 
      Item 1B. 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    21 
      Item 2. 
     Properties  
    21 
      Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    21 
      Item 4. 
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    21 
      Part II 

Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    23 
      Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    26 
      Item 7. 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    27 
      Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  
    44 
      Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    44 
      Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    44 
      Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    45 
      Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
    45 
      Part III 

Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    46 
      Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
    46 
      Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters  
    46 
      Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    47 
      Item 14. 
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
    47 
      Part IV 

Item 15. 
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  
    48 
       Signatures  
    51 

Table of Contents  

   PART I 
  Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) relating to our operations, results of operations and other matters that are based on our current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as  may,   will,   should,   likely,   anticipates,   expects,   intends,   plans,   projects,   believes,   estimates,   positioned,   outlook  and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in these forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties and other factors that might cause such differences, some of which could be material, include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below under the section entitled  Risk Factors.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them. 
  Available Information 
  Our website address is www.accenture.com. We use our website as a channel of distribution for company information. We make available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website (http://investor.accenture.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We also make available through our website other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including our proxy statements and reports filed by officers and directors under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, as well as our Code of Business Ethics. Financial and other material information regarding us is routinely posted on and accessible at http://investor.accenture.com. We do not intend for information contained in our website to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Any materials we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC, 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 
  In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we use the terms  Accenture,   we,  the  Company,   our  and  us  to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries or, prior to September 1, 2009, to Accenture Ltd and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. 
    ITEM 1.    BUSINESS 
  Overview  
  Accenture is one of the world s leading professional services companies with more than 358,000 people serving clients in a broad range of industries and in three geographic regions: North America, Europe and Growth Markets. Our five operating groups, organized by industry, deliver services and solutions in strategy, consulting, application services and operations to our clients. Digital-related services are an increasingly important component of these services and solutions. For fiscal 2015, our revenues before reimbursements ( net revenues ) were $31.0 billion. 
  We operate globally with one common brand and business model, allowing us to provide clients around the world with the same high level of service. Drawing on a combination of industry and functional expertise, technology capabilities and alliances, and our global delivery resources, we seek to provide differentiated services that help our clients measurably improve their business performance and create sustainable value for their customers and stakeholders. Our global delivery model enables us to provide an end-to-end delivery capability by drawing on our global resources to deliver high-quality, cost-effective solutions to our clients.  
  In fiscal 2015, we continued to implement a strategy focused on industry and technology differentiation, leveraging our global organization to serve clients in locally relevant ways. We continued to make significant investments in strategic acquisitions, in assets and offerings, in branding and thought leadership, and in attracting and developing talent to further enhance our differentiation and competitiveness.  
  Operating Groups  
  Our five operating groups are Accenture s reporting segments and primary market channel, organized around 13 industry groups that serve clients globally in more than 40 industries. (We have consolidated our 19 previous industry groups into 13 industry groups to better align with classifications commonly used in the marketplace.) Our industry focus gives us an understanding of industry evolution, business issues and applicable technologies, enabling us to deliver innovative solutions tailored to each client or, as appropriate, more standardized capabilities to multiple clients. The operating groups assemble integrated client  
    1 

     Table of Contents  

   engagement teams, which typically consist of industry experts, capability specialists and professionals with local market knowledge. The operating groups have primary responsibility for building and sustaining long-term client relationships; providing management and technology consulting services; working with the other parts of our business to sell and deliver the full suite of our services, including our global delivery capabilities; ensuring client satisfaction; and achieving revenue and profitability objectives. 
  The following table shows the current organization of our five operating groups and their 13 industry groups. We do not allocate total assets by operating group, although our operating groups do manage and control certain assets. For certain historical financial information regarding our operating groups (including certain asset information), as well as financial information by geography (including long-lived asset information), see Note 16 (Segment Reporting) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
                       Operating Groups and Industry Groups 
      Communications, Media   Technology 
    Financial Services 
    Health   Public Service 
    Products 
    Resources 
          Communications 
      Electronics   High Tech 
      Media   Entertainment 
    
        Banking   Capital Markets 
      Insurance 
        Health 
      Public Service 
        Consumer Goods, Retail   Travel Services 
      Industrial 
      Life Sciences 
        Chemicals   Natural Resources 
      Energy 
      Utilities 

Communications, Media   Technology 
  Our Communications, Media   Technology operating group serves the communications, electronics, high technology, media and entertainment industries. Professionals in this operating group help clients accelerate and deliver digital transformation, enhance business results through industry-specific solutions and seize the opportunities made possible by the convergence of communications, computing and content. Examples of our services include helping clients run cost-effective operations, create business model innovations, introduce new products and services, and digitally engage and entertain their customers. Our Communications, Media   Technology operating group comprises the following industry groups: 
             
    Our   Communications     industry group serves most of the world s leading wireline, wireless, cable and satellite communications and service providers. This group represented approximately 51% of our Communications, Media   Technology operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015.  
                
    Our   Electronics   High Tech   industry group serves the information and communications technology, software, semiconductor, consumer electronics, aerospace and defense, and medical equipment industries. This group represented approximately 37% of our Communications, Media   Technology operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015. 
                
    Our   Media   Entertainment   industry group serves the broadcast, entertainment, print, publishing and Internet/social media industries. This group represented approximately 12% of our Communications, Media   Technology operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015. 
     Financial Services 
  Our Financial Services operating group serves the banking, capital markets and insurance industries. Professionals in this operating group work with clients to address growth, cost and profitability pressures, industry consolidation, regulatory changes and the need to continually adapt to new, digital technologies. We offer services designed to help our clients increase cost efficiency, grow their customer base, manage risk and transform their operations. Our Financial Services operating group comprises the following industry groups:  
             
    Our   Banking   Capital Markets   industry group serves retail and commercial banks, mortgage lenders, investment banks, wealth and asset management firms, broker/dealers, depositories, exchanges, clearing and settlement organizations, and other diversified financial enterprises. This group represented approximately 71% of our Financial Services operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015.  
                
    Our   Insurance   industry group serves property and casualty insurers, life insurers, reinsurance firms and insurance brokers. This group represented approximately 29% of our Financial Services operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015. 
     Health   Public Service  
  Our Health   Public Service operating group serves healthcare payers and providers, as well as government departments and agencies, public service organizations, educational institutions and non-profit organizations around the world. The group s research-based insights and offerings, including digital solutions, are designed to help clients deliver better social, economic and health outcomes to the people they serve. Our Health   Public Service operating group comprises the following industry groups: 
             
    Our   Health   industry group works with healthcare providers, such as hospitals, public health systems, policy-making authorities, health insurers (payers), and industry organizations and associations around the world to improve the quality,  
       2 

     Table of Contents  

   accessibility and productivity of healthcare. This group represented approximately 38% of our Health   Public Service operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015.  
             
    Our   Public Service   industry group helps governments transform the way they deliver public services and engage with citizens. We work primarily with defense departments and military forces; public safety authorities, such as police forces and border management agencies; justice departments; human services agencies; educational institutions, such as universities; non-profit organizations; and postal, customs, revenue and tax agencies. Our work with clients in the U.S. federal government is delivered through Accenture Federal Services, a U.S. company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture LLP. Our Public Service industry group represented approximately 62% of our Health   Public Service operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015. Our work with clients in the U.S. federal government represented approximately 35% of our Health   Public Service operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015.  
     Products  
  Our Products operating group serves a set of increasingly interconnected consumer-relevant industries. Our offerings are designed to help clients transform their organizations and increase their relevance in the digital world. We help clients enhance their performance in distribution and sales and marketing; in research and development and manufacturing; and in business functions such as finance, human resources, procurement and supply chain while leveraging technology. Our Products operating group comprises the following industry groups:  
             
    Our   Consumer Goods, Retail   Travel Services   industry group serves food and beverage, household goods, personal care, tobacco, fashion/apparel, agribusiness and consumer health companies; supermarkets, hardline retailers, mass-merchandise discounters, department stores and specialty retailers; as well as airlines and hospitality and travel services companies. This group represented approximately 55% of our Products operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015. 
                
    Our   Industrial   industry group works with automotive manufacturers and suppliers; freight and logistics companies; industrial and electrical equipment, consumer durable and heavy equipment companies; and construction and infrastructure management companies. This group represented approximately 25% of our Products operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015.  
                
    Our   Life Sciences   industry group serves pharmaceutical, medical technology and biotechnology companies. This group represented approximately 20% of our Products operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015. 
     Resources  
  Our Resources operating group serves the chemicals, energy, forest products, metals and mining, utilities and related industries. We work with clients to develop and execute innovative strategies, improve operations, manage complex change initiatives and integrate digital technologies designed to help them differentiate themselves in the marketplace, gain competitive advantage and manage their large-scale capital investments. Our Resources operating group comprises the following industry groups:  
             
    Our   Chemicals   Natural Resources   industry group works with a wide range of industry segments, including petrochemicals, specialty chemicals, polymers and plastics, gases and agricultural chemicals, among others, as well as the metals, mining, forest products and building materials industries. This group represented approximately 32% of our Resources operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015. 
                
    Our   Energy     industry group serves a wide range of companies in the oil and gas industry, including upstream, downstream, oil services and new energy companies. This group represented approximately 32% of our Resources operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015.  
                
    Our   Utilities   industry group works with electric, gas and water utilities around the world. This group represented approximately 36% of our Resources operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2015.  
     Services and Solutions 
  Our operating groups bring together expertise from Accenture Strategy, Accenture Consulting, Accenture Digital, Accenture Technology and Accenture Operations to develop and deliver integrated services and solutions for our clients.  
  Accenture Strategy  
  Accenture Strategy helps clients achieve specific business outcomes and enhance shareholder value by defining and executing industry-specific strategies enabled by technology. We bring together our strategy capabilities in business and technology to help senior management teams shape and execute their transformation objectives, focusing on issues related to digital disruption, competitiveness, global operating models, and the workforce of the future. We provide a range of strategy services focused on areas such as digital technologies; enterprise architecture and applications; finance and enterprise performance; IT; mergers and acquisitions; operations; sales and customer services; sustainability; and talent and organization. 
    3 

     Table of Contents  

   Accenture Consulting 
  Accenture Consulting provides industry experts with the insights and management and technology consulting capabilities to transform the world s leading companies. Accenture Consulting has primary responsibility for orchestrating expertise from across our entire organization to enable our clients to transform their businesses.  
  Our management consulting capabilities enable our clients to design and implement transformational change programs, either for one or more functions or business units, or across their entire organizations. Our service areas include industry consulting services and functional consulting services, including finance and enterprise performance; supply chain, sourcing and procurement; talent and organization; and sales and customer service. Our technology consulting capabilities enable our clients to manage technology programs, as well as to transform their technology and IT organizations. We provide program management and program recovery services, as well as technology consulting services, with a particular focus on integrating new digital solutions with existing legacy systems. 
  Accenture Digital 
  Accenture Digital combines our capabilities in digital marketing, analytics and mobility to help clients provide better experiences for the customers they serve, create new products and business models, and enhance their digital enterprise capabilities. We provide digital services across two broad areas: 
             
    Digital Customers, Channels   Markets.   We help clients use digital technologies to deliver more meaningful and relevant customer experiences across all channels, customer segments and geographies. Our services focus on digital customer interactions, sales and channel distribution options. Our services span social networks, social media, digital marketing, direct-to-consumer and eCommerce platforms, as well as mobile commerce and mobility services. 
                
    Digital Enterprise.   We help clients use digital technologies to optimize the efficiency and effectiveness of their internal operations. Our services transform business processes, enable new operating models and connected product platforms, and enhance productivity through advanced analytics and collaboration capabilities.  
     Accenture Technology  
  Accenture Technology comprises two primary areas: technology delivery and technology innovation   ecosystem. 
             
    Technology Delivery.   Technology Delivery includes our application services spanning systems integration and application outsourcing and covering the full application lifecycle, from custom systems to all emerging technologies, across every leading technology platform (both traditional and cloud/Software as a Service-based). It also includes our portfolio of software solutions and our global delivery capability in Technology. We continuously innovate and leverage intelligent tools and other automation to improve delivery efficiency and productivity. 
                
    Technology Innovation   Ecosystem.   We harness innovation through the research and development activities in our Technology Labs and through emerging technologies. We also manage our technology platforms and our alliance relationships across a broad range of technology providers, including SAP, Oracle, Microsoft, salesforce.com, Workday, Pegasystems and many others, to enhance the value that we and our clients realize from the technology ecosystem.  
     Accenture Operations    
  Accenture Operations provides business process outsourcing, infrastructure consulting, infrastructure outsourcing, security services and cloud services, including the Accenture Cloud Platform. We operate infrastructure and business processes on behalf of clients, increasingly on an as-a-service basis, to help improve their productivity and performance.  
             
    Business Process Outsourcing Services.   We offer services for specific business functions, such as finance and accounting, procurement, marketing, human resources and learning, as well as industry-specific services, such as credit and health services. We provide these services on a global basis and across industry sectors through our Global Delivery Network. 
                
    Infrastructure and Cloud Services.   We provide infrastructure and security design, implementation and operation services to help organizations take advantage of innovative technologies and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their existing technology. Our solutions help clients optimize their IT infrastructures whether on-premise, in the cloud, or a hybrid of the two.  
     Global Delivery Model  
  A key differentiator is our global delivery model, which allows us to draw on the benefits of using people and other resources from around the world including scalable, standardized processes, methods and tools; industry expertise and specialized capabilities; cost advantages; foreign language fluency; proximity to clients; and time zone advantages to deliver high-quality solutions. Emphasizing quality, productivity, reduced risk, speed to market and predictability, our global delivery model supports all parts of our business to provide clients with price-competitive services and solutions.  
    4 

     Table of Contents  

   Our Global Delivery Network continues to be a competitive differentiator for us. As of August 31, 2015, we had approximately   257,000   professionals in our network globally in more than 50 delivery centers around the world, as well as Accenture offices and client locations. 
  Alliances  
  We have sales and delivery alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our own by, among other things, enhancing a service offering, delivering a new technology or helping us extend our services to new geographies. By combining our alliance partners  products and services with our own capabilities and expertise, we create innovative, high-value business solutions for our clients. Most of our alliances are non-exclusive. These alliances can generate significant revenues from services we provide to implement our alliance partners  products as well as revenue from the resale of their products. We also receive as reimbursement some direct payments, which are not material to our business, from our alliance partners to cover costs we incur for marketing and other assistance.  
  Research and Innovation  
  We are committed to developing leading-edge ideas. Research and innovation, which is a component of our overall investment in our business, have been major factors in our success, and we believe they will help us continue to grow in the future. We use our investment in research and development on which we spent $626 million, $640 million and $715 million in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively to help create, commercialize and disseminate innovative business strategies and technology solutions. 
  Our research and innovation program is designed to generate early insights into how knowledge can be harnessed to create innovative business solutions for our clients and to develop business strategies with significant value. One component of this is our research and development organization, Accenture Technology Labs, where we identify and develop new technologies. We also promote the creation of knowledge capital and thought leadership through the Accenture Institute for High Performance. In addition, we spend a significant portion of our research and development investment to develop market-ready solutions for our clients.  
  Employees  
  As a talent-led organization, one of our key goals is to have the best talent, with highly specialized skills, at the right levels in the right locations, to enhance our differentiation and competitiveness. We are deeply committed to the career development of our employees, who receive significant and focused technical, functional, industry, managerial and leadership skill development and training appropriate for their roles and levels within the Company. We provide our people with expert content and opportunities to collaborate in a broad range of physical and virtual learning environments. We seek to reinforce our employees  commitments to our clients, culture and values through a comprehensive performance management and compensation system and a career philosophy that provides rewards based on individual and Company performance. With our commitment to inclusion and diversity, we strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces collaboration, motivation and innovation and is consistent with our core values and Code of Business Ethics.  
  As of August 31, 2015, we employed more than 358,000 people and had offices and operations in more than 200 cities in 55 countries.  
  Competition  
  We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing global marketplace and compete with a variety of organizations that offer services and solutions competitive with those we offer. Our competitors include:  
             
    large multinational providers, including the services arms of large global technology providers (hardware, equipment and software), that offer some or all of the services and solutions that we do; 
                
    off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India, that offer services globally that are similar to the services and solutions we offer;  
                
    accounting firms that provide consulting and other services and solutions in areas that compete with us;  
                
    niche solution or service providers or local competitors that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area, such as digital agencies, including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models; and 
                
    in-house departments of large corporations that use their own resources, rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services and solutions we provide. 
       5 

     Table of Contents  

   Our revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies, medium-sized companies, governments, government agencies and other enterprises. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the industries in which we compete include:  
             
    skills and capabilities of people;  
                
    technical and industry expertise;  
                
    innovative service and product offerings;  
                
    ability to add business value and improve performance;  
                
    reputation and client references;  
                
    contractual terms, including competitive pricing;  
                
    ability to deliver results reliably and on a timely basis;  
                
    scope of services;  
                
    service delivery approach;  
                
    quality of services and solutions; 
                
    availability of appropriate resources; and 
                
    global reach and scale, including level of presence in key emerging markets. 
     Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis.  
  Intellectual Property  
  We provide value to our clients based in part on a differentiated range of proprietary inventions, methodologies, software, reusable knowledge capital and other intellectual property. We recognize the increasing value of intellectual property in the marketplace and create, harvest, and protect this intellectual property. We leverage patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws as well as contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property. We have also established policies to respect the intellectual property rights of third parties, such as our clients, partners and others.  
  As of August 31, 2015, we had over 2,400 patent applications pending worldwide and had been issued over 1,150 U.S. patents and 1,450 non-U.S. patents.  
  Trademarks appearing in this report are the trademarks or registered trademarks of Accenture Global Services Ltd or third parties, as applicable. 
    Organizational Structure 
  Accenture plc is an Irish public limited company with no material assets other than ordinary and deferred shares in its subsidiary, Accenture Holdings plc, an Irish public limited company. Accenture plc owns a majority voting interest in Accenture Holdings plc, and Accenture plc s only business is to hold these shares. As a result, Accenture plc controls Accenture Holdings plc s management and operations and consolidates Accenture Holdings plc s results in its Consolidated Financial Statements. We operate our business through subsidiaries of Accenture Holdings plc. Accenture Holdings plc generally reimburses Accenture plc for its expenses but does not pay Accenture plc any fees.  
  History 
  Prior to our transition to a corporate structure in fiscal 2001, we operated as a series of related partnerships and corporations under the control of our partners. In connection with our transition to a corporate structure, our partners generally exchanged all of their interests in these partnerships and corporations for Accenture Ltd Class A common shares or, in the case of partners in certain countries, Class I common shares of Accenture SCA, a Luxembourg partnership limited by shares and direct subsidiary of Accenture Ltd ( Accenture SCA ), or exchangeable shares issued by Accenture Canada Holdings Inc., an indirect subsidiary of Accenture SCA. Generally, partners who received Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares also received a corresponding number of Accenture Ltd Class X common shares, which entitled their holders to vote at Accenture Ltd shareholder meetings but did not carry any economic rights. The combination of the Accenture Ltd Class X common shares and the Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares gave these partners substantially similar economic and governance rights as holders of Accenture Ltd Class A common shares. 
  On June 10, 2009, Accenture plc was incorporated in Ireland, as a public limited company, in order to effect moving the place of incorporation of our parent holding company from Bermuda to Ireland. This transaction was completed on September 1, 2009, at which time Accenture Ltd, our predecessor holding company, became a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture plc and Accenture plc became our parent holding company. Accenture Ltd was dissolved on December 29, 2009. 
    6 

     Table of Contents  

   On June 26, 2015, the shareholders of Accenture SCA approved a merger of Accenture SCA with and into Accenture Holdings plc, with Accenture Holdings plc as the surviving entity (the  Merger ). The Merger, which was completed on August 26, 2015, further consolidated the Accenture group in Ireland. In connection with the Merger, Accenture SCA was dissolved without going into liquidation, and, by operation of law, all of the assets and liabilities of Accenture SCA were transferred to Accenture Holdings plc, and contracts, agreements or instruments to which Accenture SCA was a party were construed and have effect as if Accenture Holdings plc had been a party thereto instead of Accenture SCA. Holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares (other than Accenture SCA itself) received, on a one-for-one basis, ordinary shares of Accenture Holdings plc. Prior to the Merger, Accenture Holdings plc had not engaged in any business or other activities other than in connection with its formation and the Merger. The Merger was a transaction between entities under common control and had no effect on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  All references to Accenture Holdings plc included in this report with respect to periods prior to August 26, 2015 reflect the activity and/or balances of Accenture SCA (the predecessor of Accenture Holdings plc). The Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the ownership interests in Accenture Holdings plc and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. held by certain current and former members of Accenture Leadership as noncontrolling interests.  Accenture Leadership  is comprised of members of our global management committee (the Company s primary management and leadership team, which consists of 20 of our most senior leaders), senior managing directors and managing directors. The noncontrolling ownership interests percentage was 5% as of August 31, 2015.  
  Accenture plc Class A and Class X Ordinary Shares 
  Each Class A ordinary share and each Class X ordinary share of Accenture plc entitles its holder to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of Accenture plc. A Class X ordinary share does not, however, entitle its holder to receive dividends or to receive payments upon a liquidation of Accenture plc. As described above under   History,  Class X ordinary shares generally provide the holders of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares with a vote at Accenture plc shareholder meetings that is equivalent to the voting rights held by Accenture plc Class A ordinary shareholders, while their economic rights consist of interests in Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares or in Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares. 
  Under its memorandum and articles of association, Accenture plc may redeem, at its option, any Class X ordinary share for a redemption price equal to the nominal value of the Class X ordinary share, or $0.0000225 per share. Accenture plc, as successor to Accenture Ltd, has separately agreed with the original holders of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares not to redeem any Class X ordinary share of such holder if the redemption would reduce the number of Class X ordinary shares held by that holder to a number that is less than the number of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares owned by that holder. Accenture plc will redeem Class X ordinary shares upon the redemption or exchange of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares so that the aggregate number of Class X ordinary shares outstanding at any time does not exceed the aggregate number of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares outstanding. Class X ordinary shares are not transferable without the consent of Accenture plc. 
  A transfer of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares effected by transfer of a book-entry interest in The Depository Trust Company will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. Other transfers of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the Class A ordinary shares acquired, if higher) payable by the buyer. 
  Accenture Holdings plc Ordinary and Deferred Shares 
  Only Accenture plc, Accenture Holdings plc, Accenture International S. .r.l.     and certain current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees hold Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares. Each ordinary share entitles its holder to one vote on all matters submitted to the shareholders of Accenture Holdings plc and entitles its holder to dividends and liquidation payments. As of October 16, 2015, Accenture plc holds a voting interest of approximately 96% of the aggregate outstanding Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares entitled to vote, with the remaining 4% of the voting interest held by certain current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees. 
  Only Accenture plc beneficially holds Accenture Holdings plc deferred shares. The deferred shares were issued solely to ensure that Accenture Holdings plc satisfies Irish law minimum share capital requirements for public limited companies at all times and carry no voting rights or income rights and have only limited rights on a return of capital equal to the nominal value of those shares. 
  Holders of ordinary shares of Accenture Holdings plc have the ability, subject to the restrictions on redemption contained in Accen  ture   Holdings plc s articles of association and the Companies Act 2014 of Ireland (the  Companies Act ) and any contractual restrictions on redemption that may be applicable to a holder, to require that Accenture Holdings plc redeem all or a portion of such holder s ordinary shares of Accenture Holdings plc. In that case, Accenture Holdings plc is obligated, subject to  
    7 

     Table of Contents  

   the availability of distributable reserves, to redeem any such ordinary shares of Accenture Holdings plc. The redemption price per share generally equals the average of the high and low sale prices of a Class A ordinary share of Accenture plc as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the trading day on which Accenture Holdings plc receives an irrevocable notice of redemption from a holder of ordinary shares of Accenture Holdings plc if received prior to close of trading for that day, or on the following trading day if Accenture Holdings plc receives the irrevocable notice of redemption later than the close of trading on that day. Accenture Holdings plc may, at its option, pay the redemption price in cash or by instructing Accenture plc to deliver Class A ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis, subject to adjustment for dividends and share splits. In order to maintain Accenture plc s economic interest in Accenture Holdings plc, Accenture plc generally will acquire additional Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares each time additional Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares are issued. 
  Except in the case of a redemption of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares or a transfer of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares to Accenture plc or one of its subsidiaries, Accenture Holdings plc s articles of association provide that Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares may be transferred only with the consent of the Board of Directors of Accenture Holdings plc. In addition, all holders of ordinary shares (except Accenture plc) are precluded from having their shares redeemed by Accenture Holdings plc or transferred to Accenture Holdings plc, Accenture plc or a subsidiary of Accenture plc at any time or during any period when Accenture Holdings plc determines, based on the advice of counsel, that there is material non-public information that may affect the average price per share of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, if the redemption would be prohibited by applicable law or regulation, or during the period from the announcement of a tender offer by Accenture Holdings plc or its affiliates for Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares, or any securities convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, ordinary shares, until the expiration of ten business days after the termination of the tender offer (other than to tender the holder s Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares in the tender offer). 
  Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. Exchangeable Shares 
  Holders of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares may exchange their shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at any time on a one-for-one basis. Accenture may, at its option, satisfy this exchange with cash at a price per share generally equal to the market price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share at the time of the exchange. Each exchangeable share of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. entitles its holder to receive distributions equal to any distributions to which an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share entitles its holder. The exchange of all of the outstanding Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares would not have a material impact on the equity ownership position of Accenture or the other shareholders of Accenture Holdings plc. 
    ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS 
  In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) and/or stock price. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that may broadly affect companies, including us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or stock price.  
  Our results of operations could be adversely affected by volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients  businesses and levels of business activity. 
  Global macroeconomic conditions affect our clients  businesses and the markets they serve. Volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions in our significant markets have undermined and could in the future undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other markets, which are increasingly interdependent, and cause our clients to reduce or defer their spending on new initiatives and technologies, or may result in clients reducing, delaying or eliminating spending under existing contracts with us, which would negatively affect our business. Growth in the markets we serve could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate or contract, in each case, for an extended period of time. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographical regions in which we operate and the industries we serve have affected and may in the future affect demand for our services and solutions. A material portion of our revenues and profitability is derived from our clients in North America and Europe. Weak demand in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, because we operate globally and have significant businesses in markets outside of North America and Europe, an economic slowdown in one or more of those other markets could adversely affect our results of operations as well. Ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty and changing demand patterns affect our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand and effectively build our revenue and resource plans, particularly in consulting. 
  Economic volatility and uncertainty is particularly challenging because it may take some time for the effects and changes in demand patterns resulting from these and other factors to manifest themselves in our business and results of operations. Changing demand patterns from economic volatility and uncertainty could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. 
    8 

     Table of Contents  

   Our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, and a significant reduction in such demand could materially affect our results of operations.  
  Our revenue and profitability depend on the demand for our services and solutions with favorable margins, which could be negatively affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product. As described above, volatile, negative or uncertain global economic conditions and lower growth in the markets we serve have adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect client demand for our services and solutions. In addition, as new technologies become available, such as digital-related offerings, Everything as a Service (EaaS) and the Internet of Things (IoT), which continually change the nature of our business, clients may slow spending on current technologies in anticipation of implementing these new technologies. Such a slowdown can negatively impact our results of operations if the pace and level of spending on new technologies is not sufficient to make up any shortfall. Developments in the industries we serve, which may be rapid, also could shift demand to new services and solutions. If, as a result of new technologies or changes in the industries we serve, our clients demand new services and solutions, we may be less competitive in these new areas or need to make significant investment to meet that demand. Companies in the industries we serve sometimes seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for the services and solutions we offer, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work if we are not successful in generating new opportunities from the merger or consolidation. At any given time in a particular industry or geography, one or a small number of clients could contribute a significant portion of our revenues, and any decision by such a client to delay, reduce, or eliminate spending on our services and solutions could have a disproportionate impact on the results of operations in the relevant industry and/or geography. Many of our consulting contracts are less than 12 months in duration, and these contracts typically permit a client to terminate the agreement with as little as 30 days  notice. Longer-term, larger and more complex contracts, such as the majority of our outsourcing contracts, generally require a longer notice period for termination and often include an early termination charge to be paid to us, but this charge might not be sufficient to cover our costs or make up for anticipated ongoing revenues and profits lost upon termination of the contract. Many of our contracts allow clients to terminate, or delay, reduce or eliminate spending on the services and solutions we provide. Additionally, a client could choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project, try to renegotiate the terms of its contract or cancel or delay additional planned work. When contracts are terminated or not renewed, we lose the anticipated revenues, and it may take significant time to replace the level of revenues lost. Consequently, our results of operations in subsequent periods could be materially lower than expected. The specific business or financial condition of a client, changes in management and changes in a client s strategy also are all factors that can result in terminations, cancellations or delays. 
  If we are unable to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and attract and retain professionals with strong leadership skills, our business, the utilization rate of our professionals and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 
  Our success is dependent, in large part, on our ability to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and our ability to attract and retain personnel with the knowledge and skills to lead our business globally. Experienced personnel in our industry are in high demand, and competition for talent is intense. We must hire, retain and motivate appropriate numbers of talented people with diverse skills in order to serve clients across the globe, respond quickly to rapid and ongoing technology, industry and macroeconomic developments and grow and manage our business. For example, if we are unable to hire or continually train our employees to keep pace with the rapid and continuing changes in technology and the industries we serve or changes in the types of services and solutions clients are demanding, we may not be able to develop and deliver new services and solutions to fulfill client demand. As we expand our services and solutions, we must also hire and retain an increasing number of professionals with different skills and professional expectations than those of the professionals we have historically hired and retained. Additionally, if we are unable to successfully integrate, motivate and retain these professionals, our ability to continue to secure work in those industries and for our services and solutions may suffer.   
  We are particularly dependent on retaining members of Accenture Leadership and other experienced managers, and if we are unable to do so, our ability to develop new business and effectively manage our current contracts and client relationships could be jeopardized. We depend on identifying, developing and retaining key employees to provide leadership and direction for our businesses. This includes developing talent and leadership capabilities in emerging markets, where the depth of skilled employees is often limited and competition for these resources is intense. Our ability to expand geographically depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, retain and integrate both leaders for the local business and people with the appropriate skills. 
  Similarly, our profitability depends on our ability to effectively utilize personnel with the right mix of skills and experience to perform services for our clients, including our ability to transition employees to new assignments on a timely basis. If we are unable to effectively deploy our employees globally on a timely basis to fulfill the needs of our clients, our profitability could suffer. If the utilization rate of our professionals is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition, the quality of the work performed as well as our ability to staff projects. If our utilization rate is too low, our profitability and the engagement of our employees could suffer. The costs associated with recruiting and training employees are significant. An important element of our global business model is the deployment of our employees around the world, which allows us to move talent as  
    9 

     Table of Contents  

   needed, particularly in emerging markets. Therefore, if we are not able to deploy the talent we need because of increased regulation of immigration or work visas, including limitations placed on the number of visas granted, limitations on the type of work performed or location in which the work can be performed, and new or higher minimum salary requirements, it could be more difficult to staff our employees on client engagements and could increase our costs.  
  Our equity-based incentive compensation plans are designed to reward high-performing personnel for their contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us. If the anticipated value of such incentives does not materialize because of volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price, or if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, our ability to attract and retain the personnel we need could be adversely affected. In addition, if we do not obtain the shareholder approval needed to continue granting equity awards under our share plans in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract and retain personnel could be negatively affected. 
  There is a risk that at certain points in time, and in certain geographical regions, we will find it difficult to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet current and/or future demand. In these cases, we might need to redeploy existing personnel or increase our reliance on subcontractors to fill certain labor needs, and if not done effectively, our profitability could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if demand for our services and solutions were to escalate at a high rate, we may need to adjust our compensation practices, which could put upward pressure on our costs and adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to recover these increased costs. At certain times, however, we may also have more personnel than we need in certain skill sets or geographies or at compensation levels that are not aligned with skill sets. In these situations, we have engaged, and may in the future engage, in actions to rebalance our resources, including through reduced levels of new hiring and increased involuntary terminations as a means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand. If we are not successful in these initiatives, our results of operations could be adversely affected.  
  The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we might not be able to compete effectively.  
  The markets in which we offer our services and solutions are highly competitive. Our competitors include:  
             
    large multinational providers, including the services arms of large global technology providers (hardware, equipment and software), that offer some or all of the services and solutions that we do; 
                
    off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India, that offer services globally that are similar to the services and solutions we offer;  
                
    accounting firms that provide consulting and other services and solutions in areas that compete with us;  
                
    niche solution or service providers or local competitors that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area, such as digital agencies, including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models; and 
                
    in-house departments of large corporations that use their own resources, rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services and solutions we provide. 
     Some competitors are companies that may have greater financial, marketing or other resources than we do and, therefore, may be better able to compete for new work and skilled professionals.  
  Even if we have potential offerings that address marketplace or client needs, competitors may be more successful at selling similar services they offer, including to companies that are our clients. Some competitors are more established in certain markets, and that may make executing our geographic expansion strategy in these markets more challenging. Additionally, competitors may also offer more aggressive contractual terms, which may affect our ability to win work. Our future performance is largely dependent on our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve, while expanding into additional markets. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and clients to competitors, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.  
  In addition, we may face greater competition due to consolidation of companies in the technology sector, through strategic mergers or acquisitions. Consolidation activity may result in new competitors with greater scale, a broader footprint or offerings that are more attractive than ours. For example, there has been a trend toward consolidation among hardware manufacturers, software developers and vendors, and service providers, which has resulted in the convergence of products and services. Over time, our access to such products and services may be reduced as a result of this consolidation. Additionally, vertically integrated companies are able to offer as a single provider more integrated services (software and hardware) to clients than we can in some cases and therefore may represent a more attractive alternative to clients. If buyers of services favor using a single provider for an integrated technology stack, such buyers may direct more business to such competitors, and this could materially adversely affect our competitive position and our results of operations.  
    10 

     Table of Contents  

   We could have liability or our reputation could be damaged if we fail to protect client and/or Accenture data or information systems as obligated by law or contract or if our information systems are breached.  
  We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to securely process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients, alliance partners, and vendors. As the breadth and complexity of this infrastructure continues to grow, including as a result of the use of mobile technologies and social media, the potential risk of security breaches and cyberattacks increases. Such breaches could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information.  
  In providing services and solutions to clients, we often manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or Accenture data, including personal data, and we expect these activities to increase. As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the national laws implementing the European Union Directive on Data Protection and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and sometimes conflict among the various countries in which we operate. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or Accenture data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. These monetary damages might not be subject to a contractual limit of liability or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages and could be significant. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or Accenture data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, including a cyberattack by computer programmers, hackers, members of organized crime and/or state-sponsored organizations, who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs, could result in negative publicity, significant remediation costs, legal liability, damage to our reputation and government sanctions and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our liability insurance, which includes cyber insurance, might not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyberattacks and other related breaches. 
  Our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if we cannot adapt and expand our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings by new entrants.  
  Our success depends on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology and industry developments and offerings by new entrants to serve the evolving needs of our clients. Examples of areas of significant change include digital, analytics, mobility, IoT, cloud-based services, as-a-service solutions, security, cognitive computing and information technology automation. Technological developments such as these may materially affect the cost and use of technology by our clients and, in the case of EaaS solutions, could affect the nature of how our revenue is generated. These technologies, and others that may emerge, could reduce and, over time, replace some of our current business. In addition, clients may delay spending under existing contracts and engagements and may delay entering into new contracts while they evaluate the new technologies. Our growth strategy focuses on responding to these types of developments by driving innovation that will enable us to expand our business into new growth areas. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, or evolve and expand our business at sufficient speed and scale, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments and successfully drive innovation, our services and solutions, our results of operations, and our ability to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and continue to grow could be negatively affected.  
  In addition, we operate in a quickly evolving environment, in which there currently are, and we expect will continue to be, new technology entrants. New services or technologies offered by competitors or new entrants may make our offerings less differentiated or less competitive, when compared to other alternatives, which may adversely affect our results of operations. 
  Our results of operations could materially suffer if we are not able to obtain sufficient pricing to enable us to meet our profitability expectations.  
  If we are not able to obtain sufficient pricing for our services and solutions, our revenues and profitability could materially suffer. The rates we are able to charge for our services and solutions are affected by a number of factors, including:  
             
    general economic and political conditions;  
                
    the competitive environment in our industry;  
                
    our clients  desire to reduce their costs;  
                
    our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain contract revenues, margins and cash flows over the full contract period, which includes our ability to estimate the impact of inflation and foreign exchange on our margins over long-term contracts; and  
                
    procurement practices of clients and their use of third-party advisors.  
       11 

     Table of Contents  

   In addition, our profitability with respect to our services and solutions for new technologies may be different when compared to the profitability of our current business, due to factors such as the use of alternative pricing, the mix of work and the number of service providers, among others. For example, in client engagements involving our EaaS solutions, revenue is typically generated on a usage basis, which may be more difficult to predict accurately due to our more limited historical data using this new commercial model. 
  The competitive environment in our industry affects our ability to obtain favorable pricing in a number of ways, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. The less we are able to differentiate our services and solutions and/or clearly convey the value of our services and solutions, the more risk we have that they will be seen as commodities, with price being the driving factor in selecting a service provider. In addition, the introduction of new services or products by competitors could reduce our ability to obtain favorable pricing for the services or products we offer. Competitors may be willing, at times, to price contracts lower than us in an effort to enter the market or increase market share. Further, if competitors develop and implement methodologies that yield greater efficiency and productivity, they may be better positioned to offer services similar to ours at lower prices. 
  If we do not accurately anticipate the cost, risk and complexity of performing our work or if third parties upon whom we rely do not meet their commitments, then our contracts could have delivery inefficiencies and be less profitable than expected or unprofitable.  
  Our contract profitability is highly dependent on our forecasts and predictions about the level of effort and cost necessary to deliver our services and solutions, which are based on available data and could turn out to be materially inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the effort, costs or timing for meeting our contractual commitments and/or completing engagements to a client s satisfaction, our contracts could yield lower profit margins than planned or be unprofitable. Our cost and profit margin estimates on our consulting and outsourcing work include anticipated long-term cost savings for the client that we expect to achieve and sustain over the life of the contract. We may fail to accurately assess the risks associated with potential contracts. This could result in existing contracts and contracts entered into in the future being less profitable than expected or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability.  
  Similarly, if we experience unanticipated delivery difficulties due to our management, the failure of third parties to meet their commitments or for any other reason, our contracts could yield lower profit margins than planned or be unprofitable. In particular, large and complex arrangements often require that we utilize subcontractors or that our services and solutions incorporate or coordinate with the software, systems or infrastructure requirements of other vendors and service providers, including companies with which we have alliances. Our profitability depends on the ability of these subcontractors, vendors and service providers to deliver their products and services in a timely manner and in accordance with the project requirements, as well as on our effective oversight of their performance. Some of this work involves new technologies, which may not work as intended or may take more effort to implement than initially predicted. In some cases, these subcontractors are small firms, and they might not have the resources or experience to successfully integrate their services or products with large-scale engagements or enterprises. In addition, certain client work requires the use of unique and complex structures and alliances, some of which require us to assume responsibility for the performance of third parties whom we do not control. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to perform and subject us to additional liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our relationships with clients and on our results of operations.  
  Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 
  Although we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars, a majority of our net revenues is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have had an adverse effect, and could in the future have a material adverse effect, on our results of operations.  
  Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, expenses and income, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance-sheet items, including intercompany payables and receivables, originally denominated in other currencies. These changes cause our growth in consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be higher or lower than our growth in local currency when compared against other periods. Our currency hedging programs, which are designed to partially offset the impact on consolidated earnings related to the changes in value of certain balance sheet items, might not be successful.  
  As we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services. An increase in the value of certain currencies, such as the Indian rupee or Philippine peso, against the currencies in which our revenue is recorded could increase costs for delivery of services at off-shore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currency. Our contractual provisions or cost management efforts might not be able to offset their impact, and our currency hedging activities, which are designed to partially offset this impact, might not be successful. This could result in a decrease in the profitability of our contracts that are utilizing delivery center resources. Conversely, a decrease in the value of certain currencies, such as the Indian rupee or Philippine peso, against the currencies in which our  
    12 

     Table of Contents  

   revenue is recorded could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to service providers that benefit to a greater degree from such a decrease and can, as a result, deliver services at a lower cost. In addition, our currency hedging activities are themselves subject to risk. These include risks related to counterparty performance under hedging contracts, risks related to ineffective hedges and risks related to currency fluctuations. We also face risks that extreme economic conditions, political instability, or hostilities or disasters of the type described below could impact or perhaps eliminate the underlying exposures that we are hedging. Such an event could lead to losses being recognized on the currency hedges then in place that are not offset by anticipated changes in the underlying hedge exposure. 
  Our profitability could suffer if our cost-management strategies are unsuccessful, and we may not be able to improve our profitability through improvements to cost-management to the degree we have done in the past.  
  Our ability to improve or maintain our profitability is dependent on our being able to successfully manage our costs. Our cost management strategies include maintaining appropriate alignment between the demand for our services and solutions and our resource capacity, optimizing the costs of service delivery and maintaining or improving our sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues. We have also taken actions to reduce certain costs, and these initiatives include, without limitation, re-alignment of portions of our workforce to lower-cost locations and the use of involuntary terminations as a means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance. These actions and our other cost-management efforts may not be successful, our efficiency may not be enhanced and we may not achieve desired levels of profitability. Over time, we have been successful in managing our general and administrative costs. Because of the significant steps taken in the past to manage costs, it may become increasingly difficult to continue to manage our cost structure to the same degree as in the past. If we are not effective in managing our operating costs in response to changes in demand or pricing, or if we are unable to absorb or pass on increases in the compensation of our employees by continuing to move more work to lower-cost locations or otherwise, we may not be able to invest in our business in an amount necessary to achieve our planned rates of growth, we may not be able to reward our people in the manner we believe is necessary to attract or retain personnel at desired levels, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  
  Our business could be materially adversely affected if we incur legal liability. 
  We are subject to, and may become a party to, a variety of litigation or other claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation involving current and former employees, clients, alliance partners, subcontractors, suppliers, competitors, shareholders, government agencies or others through private actions, class actions, whistleblower claims, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. Regardless of the merits of the claims, the cost to defend current and future litigation may be significant, and such matters can be time-consuming and divert management s attention and resources. The results of litigation and other legal proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse judgments or settlements in some or all of these legal disputes may result in materially adverse monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us. Any claims or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to compete effectively or to obtain adequate insurance in the future. 
  For example, we could be subject to significant legal liability and litigation expense if we fail to meet our contractual obligations, contribute to internal control deficiencies of a client or otherwise breach obligations to third parties, including clients, alliance partners, employees and former employees, and other parties with whom we conduct business, or if our subcontractors breach or dispute the terms of our agreements with them and impede our ability to meet our obligations to our clients. We may enter into agreements with non-standard terms because we perceive an important economic opportunity or because our personnel did not adequately follow our contracting guidelines. In addition, the contracting practices of competitors, along with the demands of increasingly sophisticated clients, may cause contract terms and conditions that are unfavorable to us to become new standards in the marketplace. We may find ourselves committed to providing services or solutions that we are unable to deliver or whose delivery will reduce our profitability or cause us financial loss. If we cannot or do not meet our contractual obligations and if our potential liability is not adequately limited through the terms of our agreements, liability limitations are not enforced or a third party alleges fraud or other wrongdoing to prevent us from relying upon those contractual protections, we might face significant legal liability and litigation expense and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, as we expand our services and solutions into new areas, such as taking over the operation of certain portions of our clients  businesses, which increasingly include the operation of functions and systems that are critical to the core businesses of our clients, we may be exposed to additional operational, regulatory or other risks specific to these new areas. A failure of a client s system based on our services or solutions could also subject us to a claim for significant damages that could materially adversely affect our results of operations.  
  While we maintain insurance for certain potential liabilities, such insurance does not cover all types and amounts of potential liabilities and is subject to various exclusions as well as caps on amounts recoverable. Even if we believe a claim is covered by insurance, insurers may dispute our entitlement to recovery for a variety of potential reasons, which may affect the timing and, if they prevail, the amount of our recovery.  
    13 

     Table of Contents  

   Our work with government clients exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment.  
  Our clients include national, provincial, state and local governmental entities. Our government work carries various risks inherent in the government contracting process. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: 
             
    Government entities, particularly in the United States, often reserve the right to audit our contract costs and conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to government contracts. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, routinely audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs for compliance with the Cost Accounting Standards and the Federal Acquisition Regulation. These agencies also conduct reviews and investigations and make inquiries regarding our accounting and other systems in connection with our performance and business practices with respect to our government contracts. Negative findings from existing and future audits, investigations or inquiries could affect our future sales and profitability by preventing us, by operation of law or in practice, from receiving new government contracts for some period of time. In addition, if the U.S. government concludes that certain costs are not reimbursable, have not been properly determined or are based on outdated estimates of our work, then we will not be allowed to bill for such costs, may have to refund money that has already been paid to us or could be required to retroactively and prospectively adjust previously agreed to billing or pricing rates for our work. Negative findings from existing and future audits of our business systems, including our accounting system, may result in the U.S. government preventing us from billing, at least temporarily, a percentage of our costs. As a result of prior negative findings in connection with audits, investigations and inquiries, we have from time to time experienced some of the adverse consequences described above and may in the future experience further adverse consequences, which could materially adversely affect our future results of operations. 
                
    If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties, including those under the civil U.S. False Claims Act, and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of that government. The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities.  
                
    U.S. government contracting regulations impose strict compliance and disclosure obligations. Disclosure is required if certain company personnel have knowledge of  credible evidence  of a violation of federal criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery or improper gratuity, a violation of the civil U.S. False Claims Act or receipt of a significant overpayment from the government. Failure to make required disclosures could be a basis for suspension and/or debarment from federal government contracting in addition to breach of the specific contract and could also impact contracting beyond the U.S. federal level. Reported matters also could lead to audits or investigations and other civil, criminal or administrative sanctions.  
                
    Government contracts are subject to heightened reputational and contractual risks compared to contracts with commercial clients. For example, government contracts and the proceedings surrounding them are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity. Negative publicity, including an allegation of improper or illegal activity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation.  
                
    Terms and conditions of government contracts also tend to be more onerous and are often more difficult to negotiate. For example, these contracts often contain high or unlimited liability for breaches and feature less favorable payment terms and sometimes require us to take on liability for the performance of third parties. 
                
    Government entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. While these projects are often planned and executed as multi-year projects, government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects for lack of approved funding and/or at their convenience. Changes in government or political developments, including budget deficits, shortfalls or uncertainties, government spending reductions (e.g., Congressional sequestration of funds under the Budget Control Act of 2011) or other debt constraints, such as those recently experienced in the United States and Europe, could result in our projects being reduced in price or scope or terminated altogether, which also could limit our recovery of incurred costs, reimbursable expenses and profits on work completed prior to the termination. Furthermore, if insufficient funding is appropriated to the government entity to cover termination costs, we may not be able to fully recover our investments.  
                
    Political and economic factors such as pending elections, the outcome of recent elections, changes in leadership among key executive or legislative decision makers, revisions to governmental tax or other policies and reduced tax revenues can affect the number and terms of new government contracts signed or the speed at which new contracts are signed, decrease future levels of spending and authorizations for programs that we bid, shift spending priorities to programs in areas for which we do not provide services and/or lead to changes in enforcement or how compliance with relevant rules or laws is assessed. 
                
    Legislative and executive proposals remain under consideration or could be proposed in the future, which, if enacted, could limit or even prohibit our eligibility to be awarded state or federal government contracts in the United States in  
       14 

     Table of Contents  

   the future or could include requirements that would otherwise affect our results of operations. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced and/or enacted in recent years that deny government contracts to certain U.S. companies that reincorporate or have reincorporated outside the United States. While Accenture was not a U.S. company that reincorporated outside the United States, it is possible that these contract bans and other legislative proposals could be applied in a way to negatively affect Accenture.  
  The occurrences or conditions described above could affect not only our business with the particular government entities involved, but also our business with other entities of the same or other governmental bodies or with certain commercial clients, and could have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations.  
  We might not be successful at identifying, acquiring or integrating businesses, entering into joint ventures or divesting businesses.  
  We expect to continue pursuing strategic and targeted acquisitions and joint ventures intended to enhance or add to our offerings of services and solutions, or to enable us to expand in certain geographic and other markets. Depending on the opportunities available, we may increase the amount of investment in such acquisitions or joint ventures. We may not successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or joint venture opportunities. We also might not succeed in completing targeted transactions or achieve desired results of operations. Furthermore, we face risks in successfully integrating any businesses we might acquire or create through a joint venture. Ongoing business may be disrupted, and our management s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities. In addition, we might need to dedicate additional management and other resources, and our organizational structure could make it difficult for us to efficiently integrate acquired businesses into our ongoing operations and assimilate and retain employees of those businesses into our culture and operations. Acquisitions or joint ventures may result in significant costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, retention payments, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, assumed litigation and other liabilities, and legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, which could negatively affect our profitability. We may have difficulties as a result of entering into new markets where we have limited or no direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions. 
  We might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any acquisition or joint venture we undertake. We might not achieve our expected return on investment or may lose money. We may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume from a company we acquire or in which we invest, including from that company s known and unknown obligations, intellectual property or other assets, terminated employees, current or former clients or other third parties. In addition, we may fail to identify or adequately assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring, investing in or partnering with a company, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions or liabilities resulting from an acquisition target s previous activities. If any of these circumstances occurs, they could result in unexpected legal or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes or other adverse effects on our business. By their nature, joint ventures involve a lesser degree of control over the business operations of the joint venture itself, particularly when we have a minority position. This lesser degree of control may expose us to additional reputational, financial, legal, compliance or operational risks. Litigation, indemnification claims and other unforeseen claims and liabilities may arise from the acquisition or operation of acquired businesses. For example, we may face litigation or other claims as a result of certain terms and conditions of the acquisition agreement, such as earnout payments or closing net asset adjustments. Alternatively, shareholder litigation may arise as a result of proposed acquisitions. If we are unable to complete the number and kind of acquisitions and joint ventures for which we plan, or if we are inefficient or unsuccessful at integrating any acquired businesses into our operations, we may not be able to achieve our planned rates of growth or improve our market share, profitability or competitive position in specific markets or services. 
  We periodically evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses. Divestitures could involve difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management s attention, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. After reaching an agreement with a buyer for the disposition of a business, the transaction may be subject to the satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to obtaining necessary regulatory and government approvals, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. Divestitures may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested assets and businesses, such as indemnities or other financial obligations, in which the performance of the divested assets or businesses could impact our results of operations. Any divestiture we undertake could adversely affect our results of operations. 
  Our Global Delivery Network is increasingly concentrated in India and the Philippines, which may expose us to operational risks.  
  Our business model is dependent on our Global Delivery Network, which includes Accenture personnel based at more than 50 delivery centers around the world. While these delivery centers are located throughout the world, we have based large portions of our delivery network in India, where we have the largest number of people in our delivery network located, and the Philippines, where we have the second largest number of people located. Concentrating our Global Delivery Network in these locations presents a number of operational risks, many of which are beyond our control. For example, natural disasters of the type described below,  
    15 

     Table of Contents  

   some of which India and the Philippines have experienced and other countries may experience, could impair the ability of our people to safely travel to and work in our facilities and disrupt our ability to perform work through our delivery centers. Additionally, both India and the Philippines have experienced, and other countries may experience, political instability and worker strikes. India in particular has experienced civil unrest and hostilities with neighboring countries, including Pakistan. Military activity or civil hostilities in the future, as well as terrorist activities and other conditions, which are described more fully below, could significantly disrupt our ability to perform work through our delivery centers. Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be effective, particularly if catastrophic events occur. If any of these circumstances occurs, we have a greater risk that the interruptions in communications with our clients and other Accenture locations and personnel, and any down-time in important processes we operate for clients, could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation in the marketplace.  
  Changes in our level of taxes, as well as audits, investigations and tax proceedings, or changes in our treatment as an Irish company, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  
  We are subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. We calculate and provide for income taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. Tax accounting often involves complex matters and requires our judgment to determine our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with our judgments, or may take increasingly aggressive positions opposing the judgments we make, including with respect to our intercompany transactions. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of our audits to determine the appropriateness of our tax liabilities. However, our judgments might not be sustained as a result of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by the expiration of current tax benefits, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. Tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate may change as a result of macroeconomic or other factors outside of our control. In addition, changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable, particularly in less developed markets, and could become more stringent, which could materially adversely affect our tax position. For example, a number of countries where we do business, including the United States and many countries in the European Union, are considering changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to multinational corporations. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations and financial condition.  
  Although we expect to be able to rely on the tax treaty between the United States and Ireland, legislative or diplomatic action could be taken that would prevent us from being able to rely on such treaty. Our inability to rely on such treaty would subject us to increased taxation or significant additional expense. Congressional proposals could change the definition of a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could subject us to increased taxation. In addition, we could be materially adversely affected by future changes in tax law or policy in Ireland or other jurisdictions where we operate, including their treaties with Ireland or the United States. These changes could be exacerbated by economic, budget or other challenges facing Ireland or these other jurisdictions.  
  As a result of our geographically diverse operations and our growth strategy to continue geographic expansion, we are more susceptible to certain risks.  
  We have offices and operations in more than 200 cities in 55 countries around the world. One aspect of our growth strategy is to continue to expand in key markets around the world. Our growth strategy might not be successful. If we are unable to manage the risks of our global operations and geographic expansion strategy, including international hostilities, natural disasters, security breaches, failure to maintain compliance with our clients  control requirements and multiple legal and regulatory systems, our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected. In addition, emerging markets generally involve greater financial and operational risks, such as those described below, than our more mature markets. Negative or uncertain political climates in countries or geographies where we operate could also adversely affect us.  
  We could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies.   In some countries, we could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies, which would limit our ability to use this cash across our global operations. This risk could increase as we continue our geographic expansion in key markets around the world, which include emerging markets that are more likely to impose these restrictions than more established markets.  
  International hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics and infrastructure disruptions could prevent us from effectively serving our clients and thus adversely affect our results of operations.   Acts of terrorist violence; political unrest; armed regional and international hostilities and international responses to these hostilities; natural disasters, volcanic eruptions, floods and other severe weather conditions; global health emergencies or pandemics or the threat of or perceived potential for these events; and other acts of god could have a negative impact on us. These events could adversely affect our clients  levels of business activity and precipitate sudden and significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. These events also pose significant risks to our people and to physical facilities and operations around the world, whether the facilities  
    16 

     Table of Contents  

   are ours or those of our alliance partners or clients. By disrupting communications and travel and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly skilled and qualified personnel, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our services and solutions to our clients. Extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at, or security breaches in, our facilities or systems, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. We might be unable to protect our people, facilities and systems against all such occurrences. We generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, conflicts and wars. If these disruptions prevent us from effectively serving our clients, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 
  Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business.   We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anticorruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, wage-and-hour standards, and employment and labor relations. The global nature of our operations, including emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or understood by us, and the diverse nature of our operations across a number of regulated industries, further increase the difficulty of compliance. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us and/or our employees, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients also could result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage and restrictions on our ability to effectively carry out our contractual obligations and thereby expose us to potential claims from our clients. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws may not be well developed or provide sufficiently clear guidance and may be insufficient to protect our rights.  
  In particular, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws, or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. Our employees, subcontractors, vendors, agents, alliance or joint venture partners, the companies we acquire and their employees, subcontractors, vendors and agents, and other third parties with which we associate, could take actions that violate policies or procedures designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, including U.S. federal contracting, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation.  
  Changes in laws and regulations could also mandate significant and costly changes to the way we implement our services and solutions or could impose additional taxes on our services and solutions. For example, changes in laws and regulations to limit using off-shore resources in connection with our work or to penalize companies that use off-shore resources, which have been proposed from time to time in various jurisdictions, could adversely affect our results of operations. Such changes may result in contracts being terminated or work being transferred on-shore, resulting in greater costs to us. In addition, these changes could have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future work from government clients.  
  Adverse changes to our relationships with key alliance partners or in the business of our key alliance partners could adversely affect our results of operations.  
  We have alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our own. A very significant portion of our services and solutions are based on technology or software provided by a few major providers that are our alliance partners. See  Business Alliances.  The priorities and objectives of our alliance partners may differ from ours. As most of our alliance relationships are non-exclusive, our alliance partners are not prohibited from competing with us or forming closer or preferred arrangements with our competitors. One or more of our key alliance partners may be acquired by a competitor, or key alliance partners might merge with each other, either of which could reduce our access over time to the technology or software provided by those partners. In addition, our alliance partners could experience reduced demand for their technology or software, including, for example, in response to changes in technology, which could lessen related demand for our services and solutions. If we do not obtain the expected benefits from our alliance relationships for any reason, we may be less competitive, our ability to offer attractive solutions to our clients may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely affected.  
  Our services or solutions could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others or we might lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others.  
  We cannot be sure that our services and solutions, including, for example, our software solutions, or the solutions of others that we offer to our clients, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and these third parties could claim that we or our clients are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. These claims could harm our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs or prevent us from offering some services or solutions in the future. Any related proceedings could require  
    17 

     Table of Contents  

   us to expend significant resources over an extended period of time. In most of our contracts, we agree to indemnify our clients for expenses and liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of the intellectual property rights of third parties. In some instances, the amount of these indemnities could be greater than the revenues we receive from the client. Any claims or litigation in this area could be time-consuming and costly, damage our reputation and/or require us to incur additional costs to obtain the right to continue to offer a service or solution to our clients. If we cannot secure this right at all or on reasonable terms, or we cannot substitute alternative technology, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The risk of infringement claims against us may increase as we expand our industry software solutions and continue to develop and license our software to multiple clients.       Additionally, in recent years, individuals and firms have purchased intellectual property assets in order to assert claims of infringement against technology providers and customers that use such technology. Any such action naming us or our clients could be costly to defend or lead to an expensive settlement or judgment against us. Moreover, such an action could result in an injunction being ordered against our client or our own services or operations, causing further damages.  
  In addition, we rely on third-party software in providing some of our services and solutions. If we lose our ability to continue using such software for any reason, including because it is found to infringe the rights of others, we will need to obtain substitute software or seek alternative means of obtaining the technology necessary to continue to provide such services and solutions. Our inability to replace such software, or to replace such software in a timely or cost-effective manner, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 
  If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties, our business could be adversely affected.  
  Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property. Existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and the protection in some countries may be very limited. We rely upon a combination of confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. These laws are subject to change at any time and could further limit our ability to protect our intellectual property. There is uncertainty concerning the scope of available intellectual property protection for software and business methods, which are fields in which we rely on intellectual property laws to protect our rights. Our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from reverse engineering our proprietary information or independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative of ours. Further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money and oversight, and we may not be successful in enforcing our rights.  
  Our ability to attract and retain business and employees may depend on our reputation in the marketplace.  
  We believe the Accenture brand name and our reputation are important corporate assets that help distinguish our services and solutions from those of competitors and also contribute to our efforts to recruit and retain talented employees. However, our corporate reputation is potentially susceptible to material damage by events such as disputes with clients, cybersecurity breaches or service outages, internal control deficiencies, delivery failures or compliance violations. Similarly, our reputation could be damaged by actions or statements of current or former clients, directors, employees, competitors, vendors, alliance partners, our joint ventures or joint venture partners, adversaries in legal proceedings, legislators or government regulators, as well as members of the investment community or the media. There is a risk that negative information about Accenture, even if based on rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our business. Damage to our reputation could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements, resulting in a loss of business, and could adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the value and effectiveness of the Accenture brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us, materially adversely affecting our share price.  
  If we are unable to manage the organizational challenges associated with our size, we might be unable to achieve our business objectives.  
  As of August 31, 2015, we had more than 358,000 employees worldwide. Our size and scale present significant management and organizational challenges. It might become increasingly difficult to maintain effective standards across a large enterprise and effectively institutionalize our knowledge. It might also become more difficult to maintain our culture, effectively manage and monitor our personnel and operations and effectively communicate our core values, policies and procedures, strategies and goals, particularly given our world-wide operations. The size and scope of our operations increase the possibility that we will have employees who engage in unlawful or fraudulent activity, or otherwise expose us to unacceptable business risks, despite our efforts to train them and maintain internal controls to prevent such instances. For example, employee misconduct could involve the improper use of our clients  sensitive or confidential information or the failure to comply with legislation or regulations regarding the protection of sensitive or confidential information. Furthermore, the inappropriate use of social networking sites by our employees could result in breaches of confidentiality, unauthorized disclosure of non-public company information or damage to our reputation. If we do not continue to develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our enterprise and instill  
    18 

     Table of Contents  

   our culture and core values into all of our employees, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired. In addition, from time to time, we have made, and may continue to make, changes to our operating model, including how we are organized, as the needs and size of our business change, and if we do not successfully implement the changes, our business and results of operation may be negatively impacted. 
  We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our financial results. 
  Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The application of generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that affect our reported financial condition, and our accompanying disclosure with respect to, among other things, revenue recognition and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience, contractual commitments and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made. These estimates and assumptions involve the use of judgment and are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If our estimates, or the assumptions underlying such estimates, are not correct, actual results may differ materially from our estimates, and we may need to, among other things, adjust revenues or accrue additional charges that could adversely affect our results of operations.  
  Many of our contracts include payments that link some of our fees to the attainment of performance or business targets and/or require us to meet specific service levels. This could increase the variability of our revenues and impact our margins.  
  Many of our contracts include clauses that tie our compensation to the achievement of agreed-upon performance standards or milestones. If we fail to satisfy these measures, it could significantly reduce or eliminate our fees under the contracts, increase the cost to us of meeting performance standards or milestones, delay expected payments or subject us to potential damage claims under the contract terms. Clients also often have the right to terminate a contract and pursue damage claims under the contract for serious or repeated failure to meet these service commitments. We also have a number of contracts, in both outsourcing and consulting, in which a portion of our compensation depends on performance measures such as cost-savings, revenue enhancement, benefits produced, business goals attained and adherence to schedule. These goals can be complex and may depend on our clients  actual levels of business activity or may be based on assumptions that are later determined not to be achievable or accurate. These provisions could increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on those contracts.  
  If we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.  
  Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. In limited circumstances, we also extend financing to our clients. We have established allowances for losses of receivables and unbilled services. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate, and, as a result, we might need to adjust our allowances. We might not accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, including bankruptcy and insolvency. This could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. In addition, in certain geographies and industries, some clients have requested longer payment terms, which has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our cash flows. Recovery of client financing and timely collection of client balances also depend on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. 
  Our results of operations and share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls.  
  The accuracy of our financial reporting is dependent on the effectiveness of our internal controls. We are required to provide a report from management to our shareholders on our internal control over financial reporting that includes an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls. Internal control over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including human error, the possibility that controls could be circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud. Because of these inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting might not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we could suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, be unable to properly report on our business and our results of operations, or be required to restate our financial statements, and our results of operations, our share price and our ability to obtain new business could be materially adversely affected.  
    19 

     Table of Contents  

   We are incorporated in Ireland and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it might not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. We may also be subject to criticism and negative publicity related to our incorporation in Ireland.  
  We are organized under the laws of Ireland, and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. A shareholder who obtains a court judgment based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws may be unable to enforce the judgment against us in Ireland or in countries other than the United States where we have assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Ireland and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States and Ireland do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. The laws of Ireland do, however, as a general rule, provide that the judgments of the courts of the United States have the same validity in Ireland as if rendered by Irish Courts. Certain important requirements must be satisfied before the Irish Courts will recognize the U.S. judgment. The originating court must have been a court of competent jurisdiction, the judgment must be final and conclusive and the judgment may not be recognized if it was obtained by fraud or its recognition would be contrary to Irish public policy. Any judgment obtained in contravention of the rules of natural justice or that is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment would not be enforced in Ireland. Similarly, judgments might not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where we have assets.  
  Some companies that conduct substantial business in the United States but which have a parent domiciled in certain other jurisdictions have been criticized as improperly avoiding U.S. taxes or creating an unfair competitive advantage over other U.S. companies. Accenture never conducted business under a U.S. parent company and pays U.S. taxes on all of its U.S. operations. Nonetheless, we could be subject to criticism in connection with our incorporation in Ireland.  
  Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and might afford less protection to shareholders.  
  Our shareholders could have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Companies Act. The Companies Act differs in some significant, and possibly material, respects from laws applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders under various state corporation laws, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors.  
  Under Irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company under Irish law, and may only do so in limited circumstances. Directors of an Irish company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act with due care and skill, honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests might conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any contract or arrangement with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a director or officer of an Irish company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he could be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty.  
  Under Irish law, we must have authority from our shareholders to issue any shares, including shares that are part of the company s authorized but unissued share capital. In addition, unless otherwise authorized by its shareholders, when an Irish company issues shares for cash to new shareholders, it is required first to offer those shares on the same or more favorable terms to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis. If we are unable to obtain these authorizations from our shareholders, or are otherwise limited by the terms of our authorizations, our ability to issue shares under our equity compensation plans and, if applicable, to facilitate funding acquisitions or otherwise raise capital could be adversely affected. 
  We might be unable to access additional capital on favorable terms or at all. If we raise equity capital, it may dilute our shareholders  ownership interest in us.  
  We might choose to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to:  
             
    take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion;  
                
    acquire other businesses or assets;  
                
    repurchase shares from our shareholders;  
                
    develop new services and solutions; or  
                
    respond to competitive pressures.  
     Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity could dilute shareholders  ownership percentage in us. Furthermore, any additional financing we need might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. 
    
    20 

     Table of Contents  

ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
  None. 
    ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES 
  We have major offices in the world s leading business centers, including Boston, Chicago, New York, San Francisco, Frankfurt, London, Madrid, Milan, Paris, Rome, Bangalore, Beijing, Manila, Mumbai, Sao Paolo, Shanghai, Singapore, Sydney and Tokyo, among others. In total, we have offices and operations in more than 200 cities in 55 countries around the world. We do not own any material real property. Substantially all of our office space is leased under long-term leases with varying expiration dates. We believe that our facilities are adequate to meet our needs in the near future. 
    ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
  The information set forth under  Legal Contingencies  in Note 15 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  is incorporated herein by reference.  
    ITEM 4.    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
  Not applicable. 
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
  Our executive officers and persons chosen to become executive officers as of the date hereof are as follows: 
  Gianfranco Casati  , 56, became our group chief executive Growth Markets in January 2014. From September 2006 to January 2014, he served as our group chief executive Products operating group. From April 2002 to September 2006, Mr. Casati was managing director of the Products operating group s Europe operating unit. He also served as Accenture s country managing director for Italy and as chairman of our geographic council in its IGEM (Italy, Greece, emerging markets) region, supervising Accenture offices in Italy, Greece and several Eastern European countries. Mr. Casati has been with Accenture for 31 years. 
  Richard P. Clark  , 54, became our chief accounting officer in September 2013 and has served as our corporate controller since September 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Clark served as our senior managing director of investor relations from September 2006 to September 2010. Previously he served as our finance director Communications, Media   Technology operating group from July 2001 to September 2006 and as our finance director Resources operating group from 1998 to July 2001. Mr. Clark has been with Accenture for 32 years. 
  Johan (Jo) G. Deblaere  , 53, became our chief operating officer in September 2009 and has also served as our chief executive Europe since January 2014. From September 2006 to September 2009, Mr. Deblaere served as our chief operating officer Outsourcing. Prior to that, from September 2005 to September 2006, he led our global network of business process outsourcing delivery centers. From September 2000 to September 2005, he had overall responsibility for work with public-sector clients in Western Europe. Mr. Deblaere has been with Accenture for 30 years. 
  Chad T. Jerdee  , 48, became our general counsel and chief compliance officer in June 2015. From August 2010 to June 2015, Mr. Jerdee served as deputy general counsel Sales   Delivery. Previously, he served as legal lead for the outsourcing sales legal team as well as for Accenture s growth platforms. Mr. Jerdee has been with Accenture for 18 years.  
  Daniel T. London  , 51, became our group chief executive Health   Public Service operating group in June 2014. From 2009 to June 2014, Mr. London was senior managing director for Health   Public Service in North America. Previously, he served as managing director of Accenture s Finance   Performance Management global service line. Mr. London has been with Accenture for 29 years.  
  Richard A. Lumb  , 54, became our group chief executive Financial Services operating group in December 2010. From June 2006 to December 2010, Mr. Lumb led our Financial Services operating group in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America. He also served as our managing director of business and market development Financial Services operating group from September 2005 to June 2006. Mr. Lumb has been with Accenture for 30 years. 
  Pierre Nanterme  , 56, became chairman of the Board of Directors in February 2013 and has served as our chief executive officer since January 2011. Mr. Nanterme was our group chief executive Financial Services operating group from September 2007 to December 2010. Prior to assuming this role, Mr. Nanterme held various leadership roles throughout the Company, including serving as our chief leadership officer from May 2006 through September 2007 and our country managing director for France from November 2005 to September 2007. Mr. Nanterme has been a director since October 2010 and has been with Accenture for 32 years.  
    21 

     Table of Contents  

   Jean-Marc Ollagnier  , 53, became our group chief executive Resources operating group in March 2011. From September 2006 to March 2011, Mr. Ollagnier led our Resources operating group in Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. Previously, he served as our global managing director Financial Services Solutions group and as our geographic unit managing director Gallia. Mr. Ollagnier has been with Accenture for 29 years. 
  David P. Rowland  , 54, became our chief financial officer in July 2013. From October 2006 to July 2013, he was our senior vice president Finance. Previously, Mr. Rowland was our managing director Finance Operations from July 2001 to October 2006. Prior to assuming that role, he served as our finance director Communications, Media   Technology and as our finance director Products. Mr. Rowland has been with Accenture for 33 years. 
  Robert E. Sell  , 53, became our group chief executive Communications, Media   Technology operating group in March 2012. From September 2007 to March 2012, Mr. Sell led our Communications, Media   Technology operating group in North America. Prior to assuming that role, he served in a variety of leadership roles throughout Accenture, serving clients in a number of industries. Mr. Sell has been with Accenture for 31 years. 
  Ellyn J. Shook  , 52, became our chief human resources officer in March 2014. From 2012 to March 2014, Ms. Shook was our senior managing director Human Resources and head of Accenture s Human Resources Centers of Expertise. From 2004 to 2011, she served as the global human resources lead for career management, performance management, total rewards, employee engagement and mergers and acquisitions. Ms. Shook has been with Accenture for 27 years. 
  Julie Spellman Sweet  , 48, became our group chief executive North America in June 2015. From March 2010 to June 2015, she served as our general counsel, secretary and chief compliance officer. Prior to joining Accenture, Ms. Sweet was, for 10 years, a partner in the Corporate department of the law firm of Cravath, Swaine   Moore LLP, which she joined as an associate in 1992. Ms. Sweet has been with Accenture for five years. 
  Alexander M. van  t Noordende  , 52, became our group chief executive Products operating group in January 2014. From March 2011 to January 2014, he served as our group chief executive Management Consulting. Mr. van  t Noordende was our group chief executive Resources operating group from September 2006 to March 2011. Prior to assuming that role, he led our Resources operating group in Southern Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America, and served as managing partner of the Resources operating group in France, Belgium and the Netherlands. From 2001 until September 2006, he served as our country managing director for the Netherlands. Mr. van  t Noordende has been with Accenture for 28 years. 
    
    22 

       Table of Contents  

   PART II 
    
    ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  Price Range of Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares 
  Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  ACN.  The New York Stock Exchange is the principal United States market for these shares. 
  The following table sets forth, on a per share basis for the periods indicated, the high and low sale prices for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares as reported by the New York Stock Exchange. 

The closing sale price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share as reported by the New York Stock Exchange consolidated tape as of October 16, 2015 was $103.01. As of October 16, 2015, there were 259 holders of record of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. 
  There is no trading market for Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares. As of October 16, 2015, there were 624 holders of record of Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares. 
  To ensure that members of Accenture Leadership continue to maintain equity ownership levels that we consider meaningful, we require current members of Accenture Leadership to comply with the Accenture Equity Ownership Requirement Policy. This policy requires members of Accenture Leadership to own Accenture equity valued at a multiple (ranging from    1   /  2   to 6) of their base compensation determined by their position level. 
  Dividend Policy 
   On November 15, 2013, May 15, 2014, November 17, 2014 and May 15, 2015, Accenture plc paid a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.93, $0.93, $1.02 and $1.02 per share, respectively, on our Class A ordinary shares, and Accenture Holdings plc paid a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.93, $0.93, $1.02 and $1.02 per share, respectively, on its ordinary shares. 
  Future dividends on Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares, if any, and the timing of declaration of any such dividends, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors of Accenture plc and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the Board of Directors of Accenture plc may deem relevant, as well as our ability to pay dividends in compliance with the Companies Act. 
  In certain circumstances, as an Irish tax resident company, we may be required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. Shareholders resident in  relevant territories  (including countries that are European Union member states (other than Ireland), the United States and other countries with which Ireland has a tax treaty) may be exempted from Irish dividend withholding tax. However, shareholders residing in other countries will generally be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax.  
  Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities 
  None. 
    23 

     Table of Contents  

   Purchases and Redemptions of Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares and Class X Ordinary Shares 
  The following table provides information relating to our purchases of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and redemptions of Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares during the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2015  . For year-to-date information on all share purchases, redemptions and exchanges by the Company and further discussion of our share purchase activity, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Share Purchases and Redemptions.  

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Average price paid per share reflects the total cash outlay for the period, divided by the number of shares acquired, including those acquired by purchase or redemption for cash and any acquired by means of employee forfeiture. 
              (2) 
    Since   August 2001  , the Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized and periodically confirmed a publicly announced open-market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. During the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2015  , we purchased   5,306,774   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under this program for an aggregate price of   $530 million  . The open-market purchase program does not have an expiration date. 
              (3) 
    As of   August 31, 2015  , our aggregate available authorization for share purchases and redemptions was   $2,581 million  , which management has the discretion to use for either our publicly announced open-market share purchase program or the other share purchase programs. Since   August 2001   and as of   August 31, 2015  , the Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized an aggregate of   $25,100 million   for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares.  
              (4) 
    During the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2015  , Accenture purchased   910,600   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares in transactions unrelated to publicly announced share plans or programs. These transactions consisted of acquisitions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares primarily via share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection with the delivery of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under our various employee equity share plans. These purchases of shares in connection with employee share plans do not affect our aggregate available authorization for our publicly announced open-market share purchase and the other share purchase programs. 
        
    24 

     Table of Contents  

   Purchases and Redemptions of Accenture Holdings plc Ordinary Shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. Exchangeable Shares 
  The following table provides additional information relating to our purchases and redemptions of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares (or, prior to August 26, 2015, Accenture SCA Class I common shares) and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for cash during the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2015  . We believe that the following table and footnotes provide useful information regarding the share purchase and redemption activity of Accenture. Generally, purchases and redemptions of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for cash and employee forfeitures reduce shares outstanding for purposes of computing diluted earnings per share. 

_______________  
           (1) 
    During the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2015  , we acquired a total of   401,858   Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and   18,871   Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares from current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees by means of purchase or redemption for cash, or employee forfeiture, as applicable. In addition, during the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2015  , we issued   5,128,873   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares upon redemptions of an equivalent number of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares pursuant to a registration statement. 
              (2) 
    Average price paid per share reflects the total cash outlay for the period, divided by the number of shares acquired, including those acquired by purchase or redemption for cash and any acquired by means of employee forfeiture. 
              (3) 
    For a discussion of our aggregate available authorization for share purchases and redemptions through either our publicly announced open-market share purchase program or the other share purchase programs, see the  Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs  column of the  Purchases and Redemptions of Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares and Class X Ordinary Shares  table above and the applicable footnote. 
       25 

       Table of Contents  

   ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
  The data for fiscal   2015, 2014 and 2013   and as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014   are derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes that are included elsewhere in this report. The data for fiscal   2012   and   2011   and as of August 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   are derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes that are not included in this report. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this report. 

_______________  
           (1) 
    Includes the impact of a $64 million, pre-tax, pension settlement charge recorded during fiscal 2015. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Fiscal 2015 Compared to Fiscal 2014 Pension Settlement Charge.  
              (2) 
    Includes the impact of $274 million in reorganization benefits and $243 million in U.S. federal tax benefits recorded during fiscal 2013. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Fiscal 2014 Compared to Fiscal 2013 Reorganization (Benefits) Costs, net  and   Provision for Income Taxes,  respectively. 

26 

       Table of Contents  

   ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF  OPERATIONS 
  The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis also contains forward-looking statements and should also be read in conjunction with the disclosures and information contained in  Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  and  Risk Factors  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  We use the terms  Accenture,   we,  the  Company,   our  and  us  in this report to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a reference to  fiscal   2015    means the 12-month period that ended on   August 31, 2015  . All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of our fiscal year. 
  We use the term  in local currency  so that certain financial results may be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of business performance. Financial results  in local currency  are calculated by restating current period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period s foreign currency exchange rates. This approach is used for all results where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. 
    Overview 
  Revenues are driven by the ability of our executives to secure new contracts and to deliver services and solutions that add value relevant to our clients  current needs and challenges. The level of revenues we achieve is based on our ability to deliver market-leading service offerings and to deploy skilled teams of professionals quickly and on a global basis. 
  Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions, including macroeconomic conditions and levels of business confidence. There continues to be volatility and economic and geopolitical uncertainty in certain markets around the world, which may impact our business. We continue to monitor the impact of this volatility and uncertainty and seek to manage our costs in order to respond to changing conditions. There continues to be significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our net revenues are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Euro and the U.K. pound. Unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have had and we expect will continue to have a material effect on our financial results.    
  Revenues before reimbursements ( net revenues ) for the     fourth quarter of fiscal 2015     increased     1%     in U.S. dollars and     12%     in local currency compared to the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2014  . Net revenues for     fiscal 2015     increased     3%   in U.S. dollars and   11%     in local currency compared to   fiscal 2014  . Demand for our services and solutions continued to be strong, resulting in growth across all areas of our business. All of our operating groups experienced quarterly year-over-year revenue growth in local currency. Revenue growth in local currency was very strong in consulting and strong in outsourcing during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. While the business environment remained competitive, pricing was relatively stable and we saw improvement in certain areas of our business. We use the term  pricing  to mean the contract profitability or margin on the work that we sell.    
  In our consulting business, net revenues for the     fourth quarter of fiscal 2015     increased     4%     in U.S. dollars and     14%     in local currency compared to the     fourth quarter of fiscal 2014  . Net consulting revenues for     fiscal 2015     increased     3%     in U.S. dollars and     11%     in local currency compared to     fiscal 2014  . We continue to experience growing demand for digital-related services and assisting clients with the adoption of new technologies. In addition, clients continued to be focused on initiatives designed to deliver cost savings and operational efficiency, as well as projects to integrate their global operations and grow and transform their businesses. Compared to fiscal 2014, we continued to provide a greater proportion of systems integration consulting through use of lower-cost resources in our Global Delivery Network. This trend has resulted in work volume growing faster than revenue in our systems integration business, and we expect this trend to continue.     
  In our outsourcing business, net revenues for the     fourth quarter of fiscal 2015   decreased     1%     in U.S. dollars and increased     9%     in local currency compared to the     fourth quarter of fiscal 2014  . Net outsourcing revenues for     fiscal 2015     increased     4%     in U.S. dollars and   11%   in local currency compared to     fiscal 2014  . We are experiencing growing demand to assist clients with cloud enablement and operation and maintenance of digital-related services. In addition, clients continue to be focused on transforming their operations to improve effectiveness and save costs. Compared to fiscal 2014, we continued to provide a greater proportion of application outsourcing through use of lower-cost resources in our Global Delivery Network.     
  As we are a global company, our revenues are denominated in multiple currencies and may be significantly affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, resulting in unfavorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be lower. If the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, resulting in favorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be higher. When compared to the same periods in   fiscal 2014  , the U.S. dollar strengthened significantly against many currencies during the fourth quarter and   fiscal year ended August 31, 2015  , resulting in unfavorable currency translation and U.S. dollar revenue growth that was approximately   10%   and   7.5%   lower, respectively, than our revenue growth in local currency.  
    27 

     Table of Contents  

   The primary categories of operating expenses include cost of services, sales and marketing and general and administrative costs. Cost of services is primarily driven by the cost of client-service personnel, which consists mainly of compensation, subcontractor and other personnel costs, and non-payroll costs on outsourcing contracts. Cost of services includes a variety of activities such as: contract delivery; recruiting and training; software development; and integration of acquisitions. Sales and marketing costs are driven primarily by: compensation costs for business development activities; marketing- and advertising related activities; and certain acquisition-related costs. General and administrative costs primarily include costs for non-client-facing personnel, information systems and office space.  
  Effective September 1, 2014, we updated the methodology we use to calculate utilization to include all billable employees  time spent on chargeable work. Utilization for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2015   was   90%  , flat with the   third quarter of fiscal 2015  . This level of utilization reflects continued strong demand for resources in our Global Delivery Network and in most countries. We continue to hire to meet current and projected future demand.   We proactively plan and manage the size and composition of our workforce and take actions as needed to address changes in the anticipated demand for our services and solutions, given that compensation costs are the most significant portion of our operating expenses. Based on current and projected future demand, we have increased our headcount, the majority of which serve our clients, to more than     358,000     as of     August 31, 2015  , compared to more than     336,000     as of     May 31, 2015     and more than     305,000     as of     August 31, 2014  . The year-over-year increase in our headcount reflects an overall increase in demand for our services and solutions, primarily those delivered through our Global Delivery Network in lower-cost locations, as well as headcount added in connection with acquisitions. Annualized attrition, excluding involuntary terminations, for the     fourth quarter of fiscal 2015     was     14%  , down from     15%     in both the     third quarter of fiscal 2015     and     fourth quarter of fiscal 2014  . We evaluate voluntary attrition, adjust levels of new hiring and use involuntary terminations as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with changes in client demand. In addition, we adjust compensation in certain skill sets and geographies in order to attract and retain appropriate numbers of qualified employees. We strive to adjust pricing and/or the mix of resources to reduce the impact of compensation increases on our gross margin. Our ability to grow our revenues and maintain or increase our margin could be adversely affected if we are unable to: keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with changes in the types or amounts of services and solutions clients are demanding; recover increases in compensation; deploy our employees globally on a timely basis; manage attrition; and/or effectively assimilate and utilize new employees.    
  Gross margin (Net revenues less Cost of services before reimbursable expenses as a percentage of Net revenues) for the     fourth quarter of fiscal 2015     was     31.7%  , flat with     the     fourth quarter of fiscal 2014  . Gross margin for     fiscal 2015     was     31.6%  , compared with     32.3%     for     fiscal 2014  . The reduction in gross margin for     fiscal 2015     was principally due to higher labor costs, increased usage of subcontractors and higher non-payroll costs including recruiting and training costs from the addition of a larger number of employees compared to     fiscal 2014  .     
  Sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues were     17.9%     for the     fourth quarter of fiscal 2015  , flat with     the     fourth quarter of fiscal 2014  .   Sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues were     17.1%     for     fiscal 2015  , compared with     18.0%     for     fiscal 2014  .   We continuously monitor these costs and implement cost-management actions, as appropriate. For     fiscal 2015     compared to     fiscal 2014  , sales and marketing costs as a percentage of net revenues decreased 60 basis points principally due to improved operational efficiency in our business development activities. General and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues decreased 30 basis points.     
  Operating expenses in fiscal 2015 included a non-cash pension settlement charge of $64 million related to lump sum cash payments made from our U.S. defined benefit pension plan to former employees who elected to receive such payments. For additional information, see Note 10 (Retirement and Profit Sharing Plans) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
  Operating margin (Operating income as a percentage of Net revenues) for the     fourth quarter of fiscal 2015     was     13.9%  , flat with   the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2014  . Operating margin for     fiscal 2015     was     14.3%  , flat with     fiscal 2014  . The pension settlement charge of $64 million recorded in the   third quarter of fiscal 2015     decreased operating margin by     20 basis points for     fiscal 2015  . Excluding the effect of the pension settlement charge, operating margin would have been 14.5% for     fiscal 2015  , an increase of 20 basis points compared with     fiscal 2014  . 
  The effective tax rate for     fiscal 2015     was     25.8%  , compared with     26.1%     for     fiscal 2014  . Absent the tax impact of the $64 million pension settlement charge recorded during the third quarter of   fiscal 2015  ,   our effective tax rate would have been 26.0% for fiscal 2015.    
  Diluted earnings per share were     $4.76     for     fiscal 2015  , compared with     $4.52     for     fiscal 2014  . The pension settlement charge recorded during the third quarter of fiscal 2015 decreased diluted earnings per share by $0.06 in fiscal 2015. Excluding the impact of this charge, diluted earnings per share would have been $4.82 for fiscal 2015. 
  We have also presented Operating income, operating margin, effective tax rate and diluted earnings per share excluding the non-cash pension settlement charge, as we believe doing so facilitates understanding as to both the impact of this charge and our operating performance in comparison to the prior period.    
    28 

     Table of Contents  

   Our Operating income and Earnings per share are affected by currency exchange-rate fluctuations on revenues and costs. Most of our costs are incurred in the same currency as the related net revenues. Where practical, we also seek to manage foreign currency exposure for costs not incurred in the same currency as the related net revenues, such as the cost of our Global Delivery Network, by using currency protection provisions in our customer contracts and through our hedging programs. We seek to manage our costs, taking into consideration the residual positive and negative effects of changes in foreign exchange rates on those costs. For more information on our hedging programs, see Note 7 (Derivative Financial Instruments) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    Bookings and Backlog 
  New bookings for the   fourth quarter of fiscal 2015   were   $8.81 billion  , with consulting bookings of   $4.08 billion   and outsourcing bookings of   $4.73 billion  . New bookings for   fiscal 2015   were   $34.36 billion  , with consulting bookings of   $16.70 billion   and outsourcing bookings of   $17.66 billion  . 
  We provide information regarding our new bookings, which include new contracts, including those acquired through acquisitions, as well as renewals, extensions and changes to existing contracts, because we believe doing so provides useful trend information regarding changes in the volume of our new business over time. New bookings can vary significantly quarter to quarter depending in part on the timing of the signing of a small number of large outsourcing contracts. The types of services and solutions clients are demanding and the pace and level of their spending may impact the conversion of new bookings to revenues. For example, outsourcing bookings, which are typically for multi-year contracts, generally convert to revenue over a longer period of time compared to consulting bookings. Information regarding our new bookings is not comparable to, nor should it be substituted for, an analysis of our revenues over time. New bookings involve estimates and judgments. There are no third-party standards or requirements governing the calculation of bookings. We do not update our new bookings for material subsequent terminations or reductions related to bookings originally recorded in prior fiscal years. New bookings are recorded using then-existing foreign currency exchange rates and are not subsequently adjusted for foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. 
  The majority of our contracts are terminable by the client on short notice, and some without notice. Accordingly, we do not believe it is appropriate to characterize bookings attributable to these contracts as backlog. Normally, if a client terminates a project, the client remains obligated to pay for commitments we have made to third parties in connection with the project, services performed and reimbursable expenses incurred by us through the date of termination. 
    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
  The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. We continually evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions based on available information and experience. Because the use of estimates is inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain of our accounting policies require higher degrees of judgment than others in their application. These include certain aspects of accounting for revenue recognition and income taxes. 
    29 

     Table of Contents  

   Revenue Recognition 
  Our contracts have different terms based on the scope, deliverables and complexity of the engagement, the terms of which frequently require us to make judgments and estimates in recognizing revenues. We have many types of contracts, including time-and-materials contracts, fixed-price contracts and contracts with features of both of these contract types. In addition, some contracts include incentives related to costs incurred, benefits produced or adherence to schedules that may increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on such contracts. We conduct rigorous reviews prior to signing such contracts to evaluate whether these incentives are reasonably achievable. 
  We recognize revenues from technology integration consulting contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, which involves calculating the percentage of services provided during the reporting period compared with the total estimated services to be provided over the duration of the contract. Our contracts for technology integration consulting services generally span six months to two years. Estimated revenues used in applying the percentage-of-completion method include estimated incentives for which achievement of defined goals is deemed probable. This method is followed where reasonably dependable estimates of revenues and costs can be made. Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are continuously monitored during the term of the contract, and recorded revenues and estimated costs are subject to revision as the contract progresses. Such revisions may result in increases or decreases to revenues and income and are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in the periods in which they are first identified. If our estimates indicate that a contract loss will occur, a loss provision is recorded in the period in which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which the estimated total direct and indirect costs of the contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract and are included in Cost of services and classified in Other accrued liabilities. 
  Revenues from contracts for non-technology integration consulting services with fees based on time and materials or cost-plus are recognized as the services are performed and amounts are earned. We consider amounts to be earned once evidence of an arrangement has been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In such contracts, our efforts, measured by time incurred, typically are provided in less than a year and represent the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. For non-technology integration consulting contracts with fixed fees, we recognize revenues as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, provided the billable amounts are not contingent, are consistent with the services delivered and are earned. Contingent or incentive revenues relating to non-technology integration consulting contracts are recognized when the contingency is satisfied and we conclude the amounts are earned. 
  Outsourcing contracts typically span several years and involve complex delivery, often through multiple workforces in different countries. In a number of these arrangements, we hire client employees and become responsible for certain client obligations. Revenues are recognized on outsourcing contracts as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, unless the amounts are billed in advance of performance of services, in which case revenues are recognized when the services are performed and amounts are earned. Revenues from time-and-materials or cost-plus contracts are recognized as the services are performed. In such contracts, our effort, measured by time incurred, represents the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as transactions are processed based on objective measures of output. Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognized on a straight-line basis, unless revenues are earned and obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. Outsourcing contracts can also include incentive payments for benefits delivered to clients. Revenues relating to such incentive payments are recorded when the contingency is satisfied and we conclude the amounts are earned. We continuously review and reassess our estimates of contract profitability. Circumstances that potentially affect profitability over the life of the contract include decreases in volumes of transactions or other inputs/outputs on which we are paid, failure to deliver agreed benefits, variances from planned internal/external costs to deliver our services and other factors affecting revenues and costs. 
  Costs related to delivering outsourcing services are expensed as incurred, with the exception of certain transition costs related to the set-up of processes, personnel and systems, which are deferred during the transition period and expensed evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. The deferred costs are specific internal costs or incremental external costs directly related to transition or set-up activities necessary to enable the outsourced services. Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment losses are recorded when projected remaining undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets. Amounts billable to the client for transition or set-up activities are deferred and recognized as revenue evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. Contract acquisition and origination costs are expensed as incurred. 
  We enter into contracts that may consist of multiple deliverables. These contracts may include any combination of technology integration consulting services, non-technology integration consulting services or outsourcing services described above. Revenues for contracts with multiple deliverables are allocated based on the lesser of the element s relative selling price or the amount that is not contingent on future delivery of another deliverable. The selling price of each deliverable is determined by obtaining third party evidence of the selling price for the deliverable and is based on the price charged when largely similar services are sold on a standalone basis by the Company to similarly situated customers. If the amount of non-contingent revenues allocated to a  
    30 

     Table of Contents  

   deliverable accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting is less than the costs to deliver such services, then such costs are deferred and recognized in future periods when the revenues become non-contingent. Revenues are recognized in accordance with our accounting policies for the separate deliverables when the services have value on a stand-alone basis, selling price of the separate deliverables exists and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the completed deliverable, performance of the in-process deliverable is considered probable and substantially in our control. While determining fair value and identifying separate deliverables require judgment, generally fair value and the separate deliverables are readily identifiable as we also sell those deliverables unaccompanied by other deliverables. 
  Revenues recognized in excess of billings are recorded as Unbilled services. Billings in excess of revenues recognized are recorded as Deferred revenues until revenue recognition criteria are met. Client prepayments (even if nonrefundable) are deferred and recognized over future periods as services are delivered or performed. 
  Our consulting revenues are affected by the number of work days in a fiscal quarter, which in turn is affected by the level of vacation days and holidays. Consequently, since our first and third quarters typically have approximately 5-10% more work days than our second and fourth quarters, our consulting revenues are typically higher in our first and third quarters than in our second and fourth quarters. 
  Net revenues include the margin earned on computer hardware, software and related services resale contracts, as well as revenues from alliance agreements, neither of which is material to us. Reimbursements include billings for travel and other out-of-pocket expenses and third-party costs, such as the cost of hardware, software and related services resales. In addition, Reimbursements may include allocations from gross billings to record an amount equivalent to reimbursable costs, where billings do not specifically identify reimbursable expenses. We report revenues net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions. 
  Income Taxes 
  Determining the consolidated provision for income tax expense, income tax liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities involves judgment. Deferred tax assets and liabilities, measured using enacted tax rates, are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax and financial statement bases of assets and liabilities. As a global company, we calculate and provide for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This involves estimating current tax exposures in each jurisdiction as well as making judgments regarding the recoverability of deferred tax assets. Tax exposures can involve complex issues and may require an extended period to resolve. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjust the valuation allowances accordingly. Factors considered in making this determination include the period of expiration of the tax asset, planned use of the tax asset, tax planning strategies and historical and projected taxable income as well as tax liabilities for the tax jurisdiction in which the tax asset is located. Valuation allowances will be subject to change in each future reporting period as a result of changes in one or more of these factors. Changes in the geographic mix or estimated level of annual income before taxes can affect the overall effective tax rate. 
  We apply an estimated annual effective tax rate to our quarterly operating results to determine the interim provision for income tax expense. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) guidance on uncertainty in income taxes, a change in judgment that impacts the measurement of a tax position taken in a prior year is recognized as a discrete item in the interim period in which the change occurs. In the event there is a significant unusual or infrequent item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is recorded in the interim period in which it occurs. 
  No taxes have been provided on undistributed foreign earnings that are planned to be indefinitely reinvested. If future events, including material changes in estimates of cash, working capital and long-term investment requirements, necessitate that these earnings be distributed, an additional provision for taxes may apply, which could materially affect our future effective tax rate. During fiscal 2015, the Company distributed substantially all of the earnings of its U.S. subsidiaries that were previously considered permanently reinvested and recorded a tax liability of   $247 million   for withholding taxes payable on this distribution. We currently do not foresee any event that would require us to distribute any remaining undistributed earnings. For additional information, see Note 9 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
  As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by various taxing authorities, and sometimes these audits result in proposed assessments where the ultimate resolution may result in us owing additional taxes. We establish tax liabilities or reduce tax assets for uncertain tax positions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are appropriate and supportable under local tax law, we believe we may not succeed in realizing the tax benefit of certain positions if challenged. In evaluating a tax position, we determine whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Our estimate of the ultimate tax liability contains assumptions based on past experiences, judgments about potential actions by taxing jurisdictions as well as judgments about the likely outcome of issues that have been raised by taxing jurisdictions. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions each quarter and adjust the related tax liabilities or assets in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax  
    31 

     Table of Contents  

   audit or the expiration of a statute of limitations. We believe the estimates and assumptions used to support our evaluation of uncertain tax positions are reasonable. However, final determinations of prior-year tax liabilities, either by settlement with tax authorities or expiration of statutes of limitations, could be materially different from estimates reflected in assets and liabilities and historical income tax provisions. The outcome of these final determinations could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period in which that determination is made. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we have adequately accounted for uncertain tax positions. 
    Revenues by Segment/Operating Group 
  Our five reportable operating segments are our operating groups, which are Communications, Media   Technology; Financial Services; Health   Public Service; Products; and Resources. Operating groups are managed on the basis of net revenues because our management believes net revenues are a better indicator of operating group performance than revenues. In addition to reporting net revenues by operating group, we also report net revenues by two types of work: consulting and outsourcing, which represent the services sold by our operating groups. Consulting net revenues, which include management and technology consulting and systems integration, reflect a finite, distinct project or set of projects with a defined outcome and typically a defined set of specific deliverables. Outsourcing net revenues typically reflect ongoing, repeatable services or capabilities provided to transition, run and/or manage operations of client systems or business functions. 
  From time to time, our operating groups work together to sell and implement certain contracts. The resulting revenues and costs from these contracts may be apportioned among the participating operating groups. Generally, operating expenses for each operating group have similar characteristics and are subject to the same factors, pressures and challenges. However, the economic environment and its effects on the industries served by our operating groups affect revenues and operating expenses within our operating groups to differing degrees. The mix between consulting and outsourcing is not uniform among our operating groups. Local currency fluctuations also tend to affect our operating groups differently, depending on the geographic concentrations and locations of their businesses. 
  While we provide discussion about our results of operations below, we cannot measure how much of our revenue growth in a particular period is attributable to changes in price or volume. Management does not track standard measures of unit or rate volume. Instead, our measures of volume and price are extremely complex, as each of our services contracts is unique, reflecting a customized mix of specific services that does not fit into standard comparability measurements. Revenue for our services is a function of the nature of each service to be provided, the skills required and the outcome sought, as well as estimated cost, risk, contract terms and other factors. 
    32 

       Table of Contents  

   Results of Operations for Fiscal   2015   Compared to Fiscal   2014    
  Net revenues (by operating group, geographic region and type of work) and reimbursements were as follows: 

_______________  
  n/m = not meaningful 
  Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 
           (1) 
    Effective September 1, 2014, we revised the reporting of our geographic regions as follows: North America (the United States and Canada); Europe; and Growth Markets (Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, Russia and Turkey). Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. 
     Our business in the United States represented   43%  ,   40%   and   39%   of our consolidated net revenues during   fiscal 2015  , 2014 and 2013, respectively. No other country individually comprised 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues during these periods. 
  Net Revenues 
  The following net revenues commentary discusses local currency net revenue changes for   fiscal 2015   compared to   fiscal 2014  : 
  Operating Groups 
             
    Communications, Media   Technology net revenues increased     16%     in local currency. Outsourcing revenues reflected significant growth, driven by growth across all industry groups and geographic regions, led by Communications in all geographic regions as well as Media   Entertainment in North America. Consulting revenues reflected significant growth, driven by growth across all industry groups and geographic regions, led by Communications in North America and Growth Markets. 
                
    Financial Services net revenues increased     11%     in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected significant growth, driven by growth across both industry groups and all geographic regions, led by Banking   Capital Markets in Europe. Outsourcing revenue growth was driven by Banking   Capital Markets and Insurance in Europe and Banking   Capital Markets in Growth Markets. These outsourcing increases were partially offset by a decline in Banking   Capital Markets in North America. 
       33 

       Table of Contents  

Health   Public Service net revenues increased     12%     in local currency. Outsourcing revenues reflected very significant growth, led by Health and Public Service in North America. Consulting revenue growth was driven by Health and Public Service in North America. 
                
    Products net revenues increased     10%     in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected very strong growth, driven by growth across all industry groups and geographic regions, led by Consumer Goods, Retail   Travel Services and Industrial in Europe. Outsourcing revenues reflected strong growth, driven by all geographic regions and in most industry groups, led by Consumer Goods, Retail   Travel Services. These outsourcing increases were partially offset by a decline in Industrial in Europe. 
                
    Resources net revenues increased     5%     in local currency. Outsourcing revenues reflected strong growth, driven by Utilities across all geographic regions, Chemicals   Natural Resources in Growth Markets and Energy in Europe. Consulting revenues reflected slight growth, driven by Utilities across all geographic regions and Chemicals   Natural Resources in Europe. These consulting increases were largely offset by declines in Energy in Europe and North America and Chemicals   Natural Resources in Growth Markets. 
     Geographic Regions 
             
    North America net revenues increased     12%     in local currency, driven by the United States. 
                
    Europe net revenues increased     10%     in local currency, driven by Germany, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Netherlands, Italy and France. 
                
    Growth Markets net revenues increased     11%     in local currency, driven by Japan, Brazil and Australia, partially offset by declines in South Korea and Singapore. 
     Operating Expenses 
  Operating expenses for   fiscal 2015   increased   $904 million  , or   3%  , over   fiscal 2014  , and remained flat as a percentage of revenues at   86.5%  , compared with fiscal 2014. Operating expenses before reimbursable expenses for   fiscal 2015   increased   $910 million  , or   4%  , over   fiscal 2014  , and remained flat as a percentage of net revenues at   85.7%  , compared with fiscal 2014. 
  Cost of Services 
  Cost of services for   fiscal 2015   increased   $915 million  , or   4%  , over   fiscal 2014  , and increased as a percentage of revenues to   70.2%   from   69.6%   during this period. Cost of services before reimbursable expenses for   fiscal 2015   increased   $921 million  , or   5%  , over   fiscal 2014  , and increased as a percentage of net revenues to   68.4%   from   67.7%   during this period. Gross margin for   fiscal 2015   decreased to   31.6%   from   32.3%   during this period, principally due to higher labor costs, increased usage of subcontractors and higher non-payroll costs including recruiting and training costs from the addition of a larger number of employees compared to   fiscal 2014  . 
  Sales and Marketing 
  Sales and marketing expense for   fiscal 2015   decreased   $78 million  , or   2%  , from   fiscal 2014  , and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to   11.3%   from   11.9%   during this period. The decrease as a percentage of net revenues was principally due to improved operational efficiency in our business development activities.  
  General and Administrative Costs 
  General and administrative costs for   fiscal 2015   decreased   $15 million  , or   1%  , from   fiscal 2014  , and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to   5.8%   from   6.1%   during this period.  
  Pension Settlement Charge 
  We recorded a non-cash pension settlement charge of $64 million, pre-tax, during   fiscal 2015   as a result of lump sum cash payments made from our U.S. defined benefit pension plan to former employees who elected to receive such payments. For additional information, refer to Note 10 (Retirement and Profit Sharing Plans) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    34 

       Table of Contents  

   Operating Income and Operating Margin 
  Operating income for   fiscal 2015   increased   $135 million  , or   3%  , from   fiscal 2014  . The pension settlement charge of $64 million recorded in fiscal 2015 decreased operating margin by 20 basis points. Excluding the effects of the pension settlement charge, operating margin for fiscal 2015 increased 20 basis points compared with   fiscal 2014  . 
   Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows: 

_______________  
  Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 
    
  Operating Income and Operating Margin Excluding Fiscal 2015 Pension Settlement Charge (Non-GAAP) 

_______________  
  Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 
    
           (1) 
    Represents non-cash pension settlement charge related to lump sum cash payment from plan assets offered to eligible former employees.  
     We estimate that the aggregate percentage impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our Operating income during     fiscal 2015   was similar to that disclosed for Net revenue. In addition, during     fiscal 2015  , each operating group recorded a portion of the $64 million pension settlement charge. The commentary below provides insight into other factors affecting operating group performance and operating margin for fiscal 2015, exclusive of the pension settlement charge, compared with fiscal 2014:    
             
    Communications, Media   Technology operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth and lower sales and marketing costs as a percentage of net revenues. 
                
    Financial Services operating income increased primarily due to consulting revenue growth, lower sales and marketing costs as a percentage of net revenues and higher contract profitability. 
                
    Health   Public Service operating income increased due to outsourcing revenue growth. 
                
    Products operating income increased due to higher contract profitability and consulting revenue growth. 
                
    Resources operating income decreased due to lower contract profitability. 
       35 

       Table of Contents  

   Other Expense, net 
  Other expense, net for fiscal 2015 increased $29 million over fiscal 2014, primarily due to higher net foreign exchange losses, including losses incurred on the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar Fuerte. 
  Provision for Income Taxes 
  The effective tax rate for   fiscal 2015   was   25.8%  , compared with   26.1%   for   fiscal 2014  . Absent the tax impact of the $64 million pension settlement charge recorded during the third quarter of fiscal 2015, the effective tax rate for   fiscal 2015   would have been 26.0%. The fiscal 2015 tax rate includes higher benefits related to final determinations of tax liabilities for prior years, including a   $170 million   benefit related to final settlement of U.S. tax audits for fiscal years 2010 and 2011, and benefits related to changes in the geographic distribution of earnings, offset by an increase in withholding taxes payable on the distribution of U.S. earnings. For additional information, see Note 9 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
  Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests eliminates the income earned or expense incurred attributable to the equity interest that some current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees have in our Accenture Holdings plc and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiaries. See  Business Organizational Structure.  The resulting Net income attributable to Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the shareholders of Accenture plc. Since January 2002, noncontrolling interests has also included immaterial amounts primarily attributable to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary. 
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for   fiscal 2015   decreased   $14 million  , or   6%  , from   fiscal 2014  . The decrease was due to a reduction in the Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares average noncontrolling ownership interest, partially offset by higher Net income of $98 million for fiscal 2015.  
  Earnings Per Share 
  Diluted earnings per share were   $4.76   for   fiscal 2015  , compared with   $4.52   for   fiscal 2014  . The   $0.24   increase in our diluted earnings per share included the impact of the $64 million pension settlement charge, which decreased diluted earnings per share for   fiscal 2015   by   $0.06  . Excluding the impact of this charge, diluted earnings per share for   fiscal 2015   increased   $0.30   compared with   fiscal 2014  , due to increases of   $0.22   from higher revenues and operating results,   $0.09   from lower weighted average shares outstanding and   $0.01   from a lower effective tax rate. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of   $0.02   from lower non-operating income. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 2 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    36 

       Table of Contents  

   Results of Operations for Fiscal 2014 Compared to Fiscal 2013  
  Net revenues (by operating group, geographic region and type of work) and reimbursements were as follows: 

_______________  
  n/m = not meaningful 
  Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 
           (1) 
    EMEA includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa. 
     Our business in the United States represented 40%, 39% and 36% of our consolidated net revenues during fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. No other country individually comprised 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues during these periods. 
  Net Revenues 
  The following net revenues commentary discusses local currency net revenue changes for fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013, based on the organization of our geographic regions and industry groups in place during these fiscal years: 
  Operating Groups 
             
    Communications, Media   Technology net revenues increased 5% in local currency. Outsourcing revenue growth was driven by all industry groups in Americas and Electronics   High Tech in Asia Pacific. This growth was partially offset by a decline in Electronics   High Tech in EMEA. Consulting revenues reflected modest growth, led by Electronics   High Tech in Americas and EMEA, partially offset by declines in Communications across all geographic regions. 
                
    Financial Services net revenues increased 5% in local currency. Outsourcing revenues reflected very strong growth, driven by all industry groups in EMEA and Asia Pacific and Capital Markets in Americas. These increases were partially offset by a decline in Insurance in Americas. Consulting revenues reflected a slight decline, due to declines in Insurance in EMEA and Americas, partially offset by growth in Banking in EMEA and Asia Pacific. While fiscal 2014 consulting net revenues reflected a slight decline, year-over-year growth in the second half of fiscal 2014 partially offset revenue declines in the first half of fiscal 2014. 
                
    Health   Public Service net revenues increased 7% in local currency. Outsourcing revenues reflected very strong growth, led by Health and Public Service in Americas, partially offset by a decline in Health in EMEA. Consulting revenues  
       37 

       Table of Contents  

   reflected modest growth, driven by Public Service and Health in Americas and Public Service in Asia Pacific, partially offset by a decline in Public Service in EMEA. 
             
    Products net revenues increased 8% in local currency. Outsourcing revenues reflected strong growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions in most industry groups, led by Air, Freight   Travel Services and Life Sciences in Americas and Retail in EMEA. These increases were partially offset by declines in Retail in Americas, and Consumer Goods   Services and Air, Freight   Travel Services in EMEA. Consulting revenues reflected strong growth, driven by most industry groups in EMEA, led by Retail, Consumer Goods   Services and Auto, and in Americas, led by Consumer Goods   Services and Air, Freight   Travel Services. This growth was partially offset by declines in Retail in Asia Pacific and Americas. 
                
    Resources net revenues increased 1% in local currency. Outsourcing revenues reflected modest growth, driven by Energy in Americas and Utilities in EMEA, partially offset by a decline in Utilities in Americas. Consulting revenues reflected a slight decline, due to declines in Natural Resources across all geographic regions and Energy in Americas, partially offset by growth in Energy in Asia Pacific and EMEA, Utilities in EMEA and Chemicals in Americas. Some of our clients, primarily in Natural Resources, continued to reduce their level of consulting investments. In addition, several large systems integration projects have ended or have transitioned to smaller phases and demand for our services has moderated.  
     Geographic Regions 
             
    Americas net revenues increased 6% in local currency, driven by the United States, partially offset by a decline in Canada. 
                
    EMEA net revenues increased 4% in local currency, driven by France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Germany and Norway. These increases were partially offset by declines in Spain, South Africa and Finland. 
                
    Asia Pacific net revenues increased 4% in local currency, driven by Japan and to a lesser extent India, partially offset by declines in Singapore and South Korea. 
     Operating Expenses 
  Operating expenses for fiscal 2014 increased $1,519 million, or 6%, over fiscal 2013, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 86.5% from 85.7% during this period. Operating expenses before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2014 increased  $1,478 million, or 6%, over fiscal 2013, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 85.7% from 84.8% during this period. Operating expenses for fiscal 2013 included reorganization benefits of $274 million as a result of final determinations of certain reorganization liabilities established in connection with our transition to a corporate structure in 2001. 
  Cost of Services 
  Cost of services for fiscal 2014 increased $1,180 million, or 6%, over fiscal 2013, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 69.6% from 69.1% during this period. Cost of services before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2014 increased $1,139 million, or 6%, over fiscal 2013, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 67.7% from 67.1% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2014 decreased to 32.3% from 32.9% during this period. There were several factors affecting cost of services and gross margin during fiscal 2014. We experienced lower consulting and outsourcing contract profitability compared to fiscal 2013, primarily due to pricing pressures in the first half of fiscal 2014 and higher payroll costs as we did not fully absorb the impact of compensation increases and/or rebalance the mix of resources. In addition, we experienced lower margins in the early stages of a few large contracts. While we accrued significant variable compensation during fiscal 2014, the amounts accrued were lower than fiscal 2013 and partially offset the impacts noted above. 
  Sales and Marketing 
  Sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2014 increased $101 million, or 3%, over fiscal 2013, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 11.9% from 12.2% during this period.  
    38 

       Table of Contents  

   General and Administrative Costs 
  General and administrative costs for fiscal 2014 decreased $17 million, or 1%, from fiscal 2013, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 6.1% from 6.4% during this period.  
  Reorganization (Benefits) Costs, net 
  We recorded net reorganization benefits of $272 million ($274 million in reorganization benefits less $1.9 million in interest expense accrued) during fiscal 2013 as a result of final determinations of certain reorganization liabilities established in connection with our transition to a corporate structure in 2001.  
  Operating Income and Operating Margin 
  Operating income for fiscal 2014 decreased $38 million, or 1%, from fiscal 2013, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 14.3% from 15.2% during this period. During fiscal 2013, we recorded reorganization benefits of $274 million, which increased operating margin by 100 basis points. Excluding the effects of the fiscal 2013 reorganization benefits, operating margin for fiscal 2014 increased 10 basis points compared to fiscal 2013. 
   Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows: 
   
    _______________  
  Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 
    
  Operating Income and Operating Margin Excluding Fiscal 2013 Reorganization Benefits (Non-GAAP) 

_______________  
  Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 
    
           (1) 
    Represents reorganization benefits related to final determinations of certain reorganization liabilities established in connection with our transition to a corporate structure during 2001.  
              (2) 
    We have presented Operating income and operating margin excluding reorganization benefits, as we believe the effect of the reorganization benefits on Operating income and operating margin facilitates understanding as to both the impact of these benefits and our operating performance. 
       39 

       Table of Contents  

   During fiscal 2014, the financial results of each operating group benefited from a reduction in variable compensation compared to fiscal 2013. The commentary below provides additional insight into other factors affecting operating group performance and operating margin for fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013, exclusive of the reorganization benefit recorded in fiscal 2013:  
             
    Communications, Media   Technology operating income was impacted by lower contract profitability, including early-stage work at lower margins on a few large contracts. Operating income was favorably impacted by revenue growth. 
                
    Financial Services operating income was impacted by lower contract profitability, including early-stage work at lower margins on a few large outsourcing contracts. Operating income was favorably impacted by outsourcing revenue growth. 
                
    Health   Public Service operating income increased due to revenue growth. 
                
    Products operating income was impacted by lower consulting contract profitability, including delivery inefficiencies on a few contracts. Operating income was favorably impacted by revenue growth. 
                
    Resources operating income was impacted by lower consulting contract profitability and higher sales and marketing costs as a percentage of net revenues. Operating income was favorably impacted by higher outsourcing contract profitability. 
     Provision for Income Taxes 
  The effective tax rate for fiscal 2014 was 26.1%, compared with 18.1% for fiscal 2013. During fiscal 2013, we recorded reorganization benefits of $274 million, which increased income before income taxes without any increase in income tax expense.  In addition, during fiscal 2013, we recorded a benefit of $243 million related to settlements of U.S. federal tax audits for fiscal years 2006 through 2009. Absent these items, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2013 would have been 25.3%. The higher effective tax rate during fiscal 2014 is primarily due to lower benefits related to final determinations of prior year tax liabilities.  
  Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests eliminates the income earned or expense incurred attributable to the equity interest that some current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees have in our Accenture Holdings plc and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiaries. See  Business Organizational Structure.  The resulting Net income attributable to Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the shareholders of Accenture plc. Since January 2002, noncontrolling interests has also included immaterial amounts primarily attributable to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary. 
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for fiscal 2014 decreased $38 million, or 14%, from fiscal 2013. The decrease was due to lower Net income of $379 million and a reduction in the Accenture Holdings ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares average noncontrolling ownership interest to 6% for fiscal 2014 from 7% for fiscal 2013. 
  Earnings Per Share 
  Diluted earnings per share were $4.52 for fiscal 2014, compared with $4.93 for fiscal 2013. The $0.41 decrease in our earnings per share included the impact of the reorganization benefits of $274 million, which increased earnings per share for fiscal 2013 by $0.38, and the $243 million tax benefit related to settlements of U.S. federal tax audits, which increased earnings per share for fiscal 2013 by $0.34. Excluding the impact of these benefits, earnings per share for fiscal 2014 increased $0.31 compared with earnings per share for fiscal 2013, due to increases of $0.25 from higher revenues and operating results and $0.12 from lower weighted average shares outstanding. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.06 from a higher effective tax rate, excluding the impact of the tax benefit related to settlements of U.S. federal tax audits and reorganization benefits. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 2 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    
    40 

       Table of Contents  

   Liquidity and Capital Resources 
  Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, available cash reserves and debt capacity available under various credit facilities. In addition, we could raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings. We may use our available or additional funds to, among other things: 
             
    facilitate purchases, redemptions and exchanges of shares and pay dividends; 
                
    acquire complementary businesses or technologies; 
                
    take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion; or 
                
    develop new services and solutions. 
     As of   August 31, 2015  , Cash and cash equivalents were   $4.4 billion  , compared with   $4.9 billion   as of   August 31, 2014  . 
  Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in our Consolidated Cash Flows Statements, are summarized in the following table: 

_______________  
  Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 
  Operating activities:   The year-over-year increase in operating cash flow was due to higher net income and changes in operating assets and liabilities, including lower spending on certain compensation payments and higher collections on net client balances (receivables from clients, current and non-current unbilled services and deferred revenues). 
  Investing activities:   The   $114 million   increase in cash used was primarily due to increased spending on property and equipment and business acquisitions. 
  Financing activities:   The   $37 million   increase in cash used was primarily due to an increase in cash dividends paid, partially offset by decreased purchases of shares. For additional information, see Note 13 (Material Transactions Affecting Shareholders  Equity) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
  We believe that our available cash balances and the cash flows expected to be generated from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our current and planned working capital and investment needs for the next twelve months. We also believe that our longer-term working capital and other general corporate funding requirements will be satisfied through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from our borrowing facilities and future financial market activities. 
  Substantially all of our cash is held in jurisdictions where there are no regulatory restrictions or material tax effects on the free flow of funds. Domestic cash inflows for our Irish parent, principally dividend distributions from lower-tier subsidiaries, have been sufficient to meet our historic cash requirements, and we expect this to continue into the future. 
    41 

       Table of Contents  

   Borrowing Facilities 
  As of   August 31, 2015  , we had the following borrowing facilities, including the issuance of letters of credit, to support general working capital purposes: 
                               
    Facility Amount 
      
    Borrowings Under Facilities 
        
    (in millions of U.S. dollars) 
      Syndicated loan facility (1) 
    $ 
    1,000 

$ 

Separate, uncommitted, unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities (2) 
    516 

Local guaranteed and non-guaranteed lines of credit (3) 
    145 

Total 
    $ 
    1,661 

$ 

_______________  
           (1) 
    This facility, which matures on   October 31, 2016  , provides unsecured, revolving borrowing capacity for general working capital purposes, including the issuance of letters of credit. Financing is provided under this facility at the prime rate or at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread. We continue to be in compliance with relevant covenant terms. The facility is subject to annual commitment fees. As of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , we had no borrowings under the facility. 
              (2) 
    We maintain separate, uncommitted and unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities. These facilities provide local-currency financing for the majority of our operations. Interest rate terms on the revolving facilities are at market rates prevailing in the relevant local markets. As of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , we had no borrowings under these facilities. 
              (3) 
    We also maintain local guaranteed and non-guaranteed lines of credit for those locations that cannot access our global facilities. As of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , we had no borrowings under these various facilities. 
     Under the borrowing facilities described above, we had an aggregate of   $167 million   and   $170 million   of letters of credit outstanding as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , respectively. In addition, we had total outstanding debt of   $27 million   as of both   August 31, 2015 and 2014  . 
  Share Purchases and Redemptions 
  The Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized funding for our publicly announced open-market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares (or, prior to August 26, 2015, Accenture SCA Class I common shares) and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares held by current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees. 
  Our share purchase activity during fiscal   2015   was as follows: 

_______________  
           (1) 
    We conduct a publicly announced, open-market share purchase program for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. These shares are held as treasury shares by Accenture plc and may be utilized to provide for select employee benefits, such as equity awards to our employees. 
              (2) 
    During fiscal   2015  , as authorized under our various employee equity share plans, we acquired Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares primarily via share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection with the delivery of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under those plans. These purchases of shares in connection with employee share plans do not affect our aggregate available authorization for our publicly announced open-market share purchase and the other share purchase programs. 
     We intend to continue to use a significant portion of cash generated from operations for share repurchases during fiscal   2016  . The number of shares ultimately repurchased under our open-market share purchase program may vary depending on numerous factors, including, without limitation, share price and other market conditions, our ongoing capital allocation planning, the levels  
    42 

       Table of Contents  

   of cash and debt balances, other demands for cash, such as acquisition activity, general economic and/or business conditions, and board and management discretion. Additionally, as these factors may change over the course of the year, the amount of share repurchase activity during any particular period cannot be predicted and may fluctuate from time to time. Share repurchases may be made from time to time through open-market purchases, in respect of purchases and redemptions of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares, through the use of Rule 10b5-1 plans and/or by other means. The repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time, without notice. 
  Other Share Redemptions 
  During fiscal   2015  , we issued   6,240,119   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares upon redemptions of an equivalent number of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares (or, prior to August 26, 2015, Accenture SCA Class I common shares) pursuant to our registration statement on Form S-3 (the  registration statement ). The registration statement allows us, at our option, to issue freely tradable Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares in lieu of cash upon redemptions of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares held by current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees. 
    Subsequent Developments 
  On   September 21, 2015  , the Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of   $1.10   per share on our Class A ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on   October 16, 2015  . On   September 23, 2015  , the Board of Directors of Accenture Holdings plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of   $1.10   per share on its ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on   October 13, 2015  . Both dividends are payable on   November 13, 2015  . 
  On   September 21, 2015  , the Board of Directors of Accenture plc approved   $5,000 million   in additional share repurchase authority, bringing Accenture s total outstanding authority to approximately   $7,581 million  . 
    Obligations and Commitments 
  As of   August 31, 2015  , we had the following obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts, contractual obligations and commercial commitments: 

_______________ 
  Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 
           (1) 
    The liability related to unrecognized tax benefits has been excluded from the contractual obligations table because a reasonable estimate of the timing and amount of cash outflows from future tax settlements cannot be determined. For additional information, refer to Note 9 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
              (2) 
    Amounts represent projected payments under certain unfunded retirement plans for former pre-incorporation partners. Given these plans are unfunded, we pay these benefits directly. These plans were eliminated for active partners after May 15, 2001. 
              (3) 
    Other commitments include, among other things, information technology, software support and maintenance obligations, as well as other obligations in the ordinary course of business that we cannot cancel or where we would be required to pay a termination fee in the event of cancellation. Amounts shown do not include recourse that we may have to recover termination fees or penalties from clients. 
       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  In the normal course of business and in conjunction with some client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. To date, we have not been required to make any significant payment under any of these arrangements. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 15 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    43 

       Table of Contents  

   New Accounting Pronouncement 
  On May 28, 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP. The core principle of the ASU is that an entity should recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount that it expects to be entitled to receive for those goods or services. The ASU requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. The ASU will be effective for us beginning September 1, 2018, including interim periods in our fiscal year 2019, and allows for both retrospective and prospective methods of adoption. We are in the process of determining the method of adoption and assessing the impact of this ASU on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
  All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading. 
  Foreign Currency Risk 
  We are exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business. We hedge material cash flow exposures when feasible using forward contracts. These instruments are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and credit risk. Credit risk is managed through careful selection and ongoing evaluation of the financial institutions utilized as counterparties. 
  Certain of these hedge positions are undesignated hedges of balance sheet exposures such as intercompany loans and typically have maturities of less than one year. These hedges primarily U.S. dollar/Indian rupee, U.S. dollar/Euro, U.S. dollar/Japanese yen, U.S. dollar/Australian dollar, U.S. dollar/Swiss franc, U.S. dollar/Norwegian krone, U.S. dollar/Brazilian real and U.S. dollar/U.K. pound are intended to offset remeasurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Income Statement. Additionally, we have hedge positions that are designated cash flow hedges of certain intercompany charges relating to our Global Delivery Network. These hedges U.S. dollar/Indian rupee, U.S. dollar/Philippine peso, U.K. pound/Indian rupee, Euro/Indian rupee and Japanese yen/Chinese yuan, which typically have maturities not exceeding three years are intended to partially offset the impact of foreign currency movements on future costs relating to resources supplied by our Global Delivery Network. For additional information, see Note 7 (Derivative Financial Instruments) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
  For designated cash flow hedges, gains and losses currently recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss will be reclassified into earnings at the time when certain anticipated intercompany charges are accrued as Cost of services. As of   August 31, 2015  , it was anticipated that approximately   $20 million   of net losses, net of tax currently recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss will be reclassified into Cost of services within the next 12 months.  
  We use sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may have on the fair value of our hedge portfolio. The sensitivity of the hedge portfolio is computed based on the market value of future cash flows as affected by changes in exchange rates. This sensitivity analysis represents the hypothetical changes in value of the hedge position and does not reflect the offsetting gain or loss on the underlying exposure. A 10% change in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar (or other base currency of the hedge if not a U.S. dollar hedge) with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a change in the fair value of our hedge instruments of approximately   $305 million   and   $259 million   as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , respectively. 
  Interest Rate Risk 
  The interest rate risk associated with our borrowing and investing activities as of   August 31, 2015   is not material in relation to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. While we may do so in the future, we have not used derivative financial instruments to alter the interest rate characteristics of our investment holdings or debt instruments. 
  Equity Price Risk 
  The equity price risk associated with our marketable equity securities that are subject to market price volatility is not material in relation to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
    ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
  See the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and financial statements commencing on page F-1, which are incorporated herein by reference. 
             ITEM 9. 
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
     None. 
    44 

       Table of Contents  

   ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  Our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Based on that evaluation, the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer of Accenture plc have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. 
  Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: 
           i. 
    pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; 
              ii. 
    provide reasonable assurance that the transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and our Board of Directors; and 
              iii. 
    provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. 
     Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013). Based on its evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, as part of their audit, has issued its attestation report, included herein, on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. See  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on page F-2. 
  Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
    ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION 
  None. 
    45 

       Table of Contents  

   PART III 
             ITEM 10. 
    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
     There have been no material changes to the procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors from those described in the proxy statement for our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders filed with the SEC on December 15, 2014. 
  Information about our executive officers is contained in the discussion entitled  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this Form 10-K. The remaining information called for by Item 10 will be included in the sections captioned  Re-Appointment of Directors,   Corporate Governance  and  Beneficial Ownership  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 3, 2016 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the Company s 2015 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. 
             ITEM 11. 
    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
     The information called for by Item 11 will be included in the sections captioned  Executive Compensation  and  Director Compensation  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 3, 2016 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the Company s 2015 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. 
             ITEM 12. 
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS 
     Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans 
  The following table sets forth, as of   August 31, 2015  , certain information related to our compensation plans under which Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares may be issued. 

_______________ 
    The remaining information called for by Item 12 will be included in the section captioned  Beneficial Ownership  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 3, 2016 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the Company s 2015 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. 
    46 

       Table of Contents  

   ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
  The information called for by Item 13 will be included in the section captioned  Corporate Governance  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 3, 2016 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the Company s 2015 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. 
    ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 
  The information called for by Item 14 will be included in the section captioned  Audit  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 3, 2016 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the Company s 2015 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. 
    
    47 

       Table of Contents  

   PART IV 
    
    ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
  (a) List of documents filed as part of this report: 
  1.    Financial Statements as of   August 31, 2015   and   August 31, 2014   and for the three years ended   August 31, 2015   Included in Part II of this Form 10-K: 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  Consolidated Income Statements 
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
  Consolidated Shareholders  Equity Statements 
  Consolidated Cash Flows Statements 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  2.    Financial Statement Schedules: 
  None 
  3.    Exhibit Index: 

48 

     Table of Contents  

49 

     Table of Contents  

(*) 
    Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

The agreements and other documents filed as exhibits to this report are not intended to provide factual information or other disclosure other than with respect to the terms of the agreements or other documents themselves, and you should not rely on them for that purpose. In particular, any representations and warranties made by us in these agreements or other documents were made solely within the specific context of the relevant agreement or document and may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. 
    50 

       Table of Contents  

   SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf on   October 30, 2015   by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
    
                 ACCENTURE PLC 

By: 
    /s/    P  IERRE   N  ANTERME 
        
    Name: Pierre Nanterme 
  Title: Chief Executive Officer 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below hereby constitutes and appoints Pierre Nanterme, David P. Rowland and Joel Unruch, and each of them, as his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with power to act with or without the others and with full power of substitution and resubstitution, to do any and all acts and things and to execute any and all instruments which said attorneys and agents and each of them may deem necessary or desirable to enable the registrant to comply with the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any rules, regulations and requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder in connection with the registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2015 (the  Annual Report ), including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, power and authority to sign the name of the registrant and the name of the undersigned, individually and in his or her capacity as a director or officer of the registrant, to the Annual Report as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, to any and all amendments thereto, and to any and all instruments or documents filed as part thereof or in connection therewith; and each of the undersigned hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys and agents and each of them shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on   October 30, 2015   by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated. 
    
                   Signature 
       
    Title 

/s/    P  IERRE   N  ANTERME 
       
    Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board and Director 
      Pierre Nanterme 
      
    (principal executive officer) 

/s/    D  AVID   P. R  OWLAND 
       
    Chief Financial Officer 
      David P. Rowland 
      
    (principal financial officer) 

/s/    R  ICHARD   P. C  LARK 
       
    Chief Accounting Officer 
      Richard P. Clark 
      
    (principal accounting officer) 

/s/    J  AIME   A  RDILA 
       
    Director 
      Jaime Ardila 

/s/    D  INA   D  UBLON 
       
    Director 
      Dina Dublon 

51 

       Table of Contents  

                    /s/    C  HARLES   G  IANCARLO 
       
    Director 
      Charles Giancarlo 

/s/    W  ILLIAM   L. K  IMSEY 
       
    Director 
      William L. Kimsey 

/s/    M  ARJORIE   M  AGNER 
       
    Director 
      Marjorie Magner 

/s/    B  LYTHE   J. M  C  G  ARVIE 
       
    Director 
      Blythe J. McGarvie 

/s/    G  ILLES   C. P   LISSON 
       
    Director 
      Gilles C. P lisson 

/s/    P  AULA   A. P  RICE 
       
    Director 
      Paula A. Price 

/s/    W  ULF     VON   S  CHIMMELMANN 
       
    Director 
      Wulf von Schimmelmann 

/s/    F  RANK   K. T  ANG 
       
    Director 
      Frank K. Tang 

52 

       Table of Contents  

   ACCENTURE PLC 
  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Page 
       Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
       
     F-2  
      Consolidated Financial Statements as of August 31, 2015 and 2014 and for the years ended August 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013: 

Consolidated Balance Sheets  
       
     F-3  
       Consolidated Income Statements  
       
     F-4  
       Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  
      
     F-5  
       Consolidated Shareholders  Equity Statements  
       
     F-6  
       Consolidated Cash Flows Statements  
       
     F-8  
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
       
     F-9  

F- 1 

       Table of Contents  

   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders 
  Accenture plc  : 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Accenture plc and its subsidiaries (the Company) as of August 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended August 31, 2015. We also have audited Accenture plc s internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2015, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Accenture plc s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting (Item 9A). Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Accenture plc and its subsidiaries as of August 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended August 31, 2015, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, Accenture plc maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2015, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework     (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
    
  /s/ KPMG LLP  
  Chicago, Illinois 
  October 30, 2015 
    
    F- 2 

       Table of Contents  

   ACCENTURE PLC 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  August 31, 2015 and 2014    
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts)   
 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    F- 3 

       Table of Contents  

   ACCENTURE PLC 
  CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS 
  For the Years Ended August 31,   2015, 2014 and 2013    
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts) 

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    F- 4 

       Table of Contents  

   ACCENTURE PLC 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  For the Years Ended August 31,   2015, 2014 and 2013    
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars) 

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
    F- 5 

       Table of Contents  

F- 6 

       Table of Contents  

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
    F- 7 

       Table of Contents  

   ACCENTURE PLC 
  CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS 
  For the Years Ended August 31,   2015, 2014 and 2013    
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars) 
   
 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    F- 8 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

1.    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  Description of Business 
  Accenture plc is one of the world s leading organizations providing management consulting, technology and outsourcing services and operates globally with one common brand and business model designed to enable it to provide clients around the world with the same high level of service. Drawing on a combination of industry expertise, functional capabilities, alliances, global resources and technology, Accenture plc seeks to deliver competitively priced, high-value services that help clients measurably improve business performance. Accenture plc s global delivery model enables it to provide an end-to-end delivery capability by drawing on its global resources to deliver high-quality, cost-effective solutions to clients. 
  Basis of Presentation 
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Accenture plc, an Irish company, and its controlled subsidiary companies (collectively, the  Company ). Accenture plc s only business is to hold ordinary and deferred shares in, and to act as the controlling shareholder of, its subsidiary, Accenture Holdings plc, an Irish public limited company. The Company operates its business through Accenture Holdings plc and subsidiaries of Accenture Holdings plc. Accenture plc controls Accenture Holdings plc s management and operations and consolidates Accenture Holdings plc s results in its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  On June 26, 2015, the shareholders of Accenture SCA, a Luxembourg partnership limited by shares and direct subsidiary of Accenture plc, approved a merger of Accenture SCA with and into Accenture Holdings plc, with Accenture Holdings plc as the surviving entity (the  Merger ). The Merger, which was completed on August 26, 2015, further consolidated the Accenture group in Ireland. In connection with the Merger, Accenture SCA was dissolved without going into liquidation, and, by operation of law, all of the assets and liabilities of Accenture SCA were transferred to Accenture Holdings plc, and contracts, agreements or instruments to which Accenture SCA was a party were construed and have effect as if Accenture Holdings plc had been a party thereto instead of Accenture SCA. Holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares (other than Accenture SCA itself) received, on a one-for-one basis, ordinary shares of Accenture Holdings plc. Prior to the Merger, Accenture Holdings plc had not engaged in any business or other activities other than in connection with its formation and the Merger. The Merger was a transaction between entities under common control and had no effect on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  All references to Accenture Holdings plc included in this report with respect to periods prior to August 26, 2015 reflect the activity and/or balances of Accenture SCA (the predecessor of Accenture Holdings plc). The shares of Accenture Holdings plc and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. held by persons other than the Company are treated as a noncontrolling interest in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The noncontrolling interest percentages were   5%   and   6%   as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , respectively. Purchases and/or redemptions of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares are accounted for at carryover basis. 
  All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to the Company s fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a reference to  fiscal   2015    means the 12-month period that ended on   August 31, 2015  . All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of the Company s fiscal year. 
  The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. Although these estimates are based on management s best knowledge of current events and actions that the Company may undertake in the future, actual results may be different from those estimates. 
  Revenue Recognition 
  Revenues from contracts for technology integration consulting services where the Company designs/redesigns, builds and implements new or enhanced systems applications and related processes for its clients are recognized on the percentage-of-completion method, which involves calculating the percentage of services provided during the reporting period compared to the total estimated services to be provided over the duration of the contract. Contracts for technology integration consulting services generally span six months to two years. Estimated revenues used in applying the percentage-of-completion method include estimated incentives for which achievement of defined goals is deemed probable. This method is followed where reasonably dependable estimates of revenues and costs can be made. Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are continuously monitored during the term of the contract, and recorded revenues and estimated costs are subject to revision as the contract progresses. Such revisions may result in increases or decreases to revenues and income and are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in the periods in which they are first identified. If the Company s estimates indicate that a contract loss will occur, a loss provision is recorded in the period in which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Contract losses are determined to be  
    F- 9 

     Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   the amount by which the estimated total direct and indirect costs of the contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract and are included in Cost of services and classified in Other accrued liabilities. 
  Revenues from contracts for non-technology integration consulting services with fees based on time and materials or cost-plus are recognized as the services are performed and amounts are earned. The Company considers amounts to be earned once evidence of an arrangement has been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In such contracts, the Company s efforts, measured by time incurred, typically are provided in less than a year and represent the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. For non-technology integration consulting contracts with fixed fees, the Company recognizes revenues as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, provided the billable amounts are not contingent, are consistent with the services delivered and are earned. Contingent or incentive revenues relating to non-technology integration consulting contracts are recognized when the contingency is satisfied and the Company concludes the amounts are earned. 
  Outsourcing contracts typically span several years and involve complex delivery, often through multiple workforces in different countries. In a number of these arrangements, the Company hires client employees and becomes responsible for certain client obligations. Revenues are recognized on outsourcing contracts as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, unless the amounts are billed in advance of performance of services, in which case revenues are recognized when the services are performed and amounts are earned. Revenues from time-and-materials or cost-plus contracts are recognized as the services are performed. In such contracts, the Company s effort, measured by time incurred, represents the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as transactions are processed based on objective measures of output. Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognized on a straight-line basis, unless revenues are earned and obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. Outsourcing contracts can also include incentive payments for benefits delivered to clients. Revenues relating to such incentive payments are recorded when the contingency is satisfied and the Company concludes the amounts are earned. 
  Costs related to delivering outsourcing services are expensed as incurred with the exception of certain transition costs related to the set-up of processes, personnel and systems, which are deferred during the transition period and expensed evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. The deferred costs are specific internal costs or incremental external costs directly related to transition or set-up activities necessary to enable the outsourced services. Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment losses are recorded when projected remaining undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets. Deferred transition costs were   $630,420   and   $598,317   as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , respectively, and are included in Deferred contract costs. Amounts billable to the client for transition or set-up activities are deferred and recognized as revenue evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. Deferred transition revenues were   $522,968   and   $543,280   as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , respectively, and are included in non-current Deferred revenues relating to contract costs. Contract acquisition and origination costs are expensed as incurred. 
  The Company enters into contracts that may consist of multiple deliverables. These contracts may include any combination of technology integration consulting services, non-technology integration consulting services or outsourcing services described above. Revenues for contracts with multiple deliverables are allocated based on the lesser of the element s relative selling price or the amount that is not contingent on future delivery of another deliverable. The selling price of each deliverable is determined by obtaining third party evidence of the selling price for the deliverable and is based on the price charged when largely similar services are sold on a standalone basis by the Company to similarly situated customers. If the amount of non-contingent revenues allocated to a deliverable accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting is less than the costs to deliver such services, then such costs are deferred and recognized in future periods when the revenues become non-contingent. Revenues are recognized in accordance with the Company s accounting policies for the separate deliverables when the services have value on a stand-alone basis, selling price of the separate deliverables exists and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the completed deliverable, performance of the in-process deliverable is considered probable and substantially in the Company s control. While determining fair value and identifying separate deliverables require judgment, generally fair value and the separate deliverables are readily identifiable as the Company also sell those deliverables unaccompanied by other deliverables. 
  Revenues recognized in excess of billings are recorded as Unbilled services. Billings in excess of revenues recognized are recorded as Deferred revenues until revenue recognition criteria are met. Client prepayments (even if nonrefundable) are deferred and recognized over future periods as services are delivered or performed. 
  Revenues before reimbursements ( net revenues ) include the margin earned on computer hardware, software and related services resale, as well as revenues from alliance agreements. Reimbursements include billings for travel and other out-of-pocket expenses and third-party costs, such as the cost of hardware, software and related services resales. In addition, Reimbursements include allocations from gross billings to record an amount equivalent to reimbursable costs, where billings do not specifically  
    F- 10 

     Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   identify reimbursable expenses. The Company reports revenues net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions. 
  Employee Share-Based Compensation Arrangements 
  Share-based compensation expense is recognized over the requisite service period for awards of equity instruments to employees based on the grant date fair value of those awards expected to ultimately vest. Forfeitures are estimated on the date of grant and revised if actual or expected forfeiture activity differs materially from original estimates. 
  Income Taxes 
  The Company calculates and provides for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which it operates. Deferred tax assets and liabilities, measured using enacted tax rates, are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax and financial statement bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance reduces the deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company establishes liabilities or reduces assets for uncertain tax positions when the Company believes those tax positions are not more likely than not of being sustained if challenged. Each fiscal quarter, the Company evaluates these uncertain tax positions and adjusts the related tax assets and liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. 
  Translation of Non-U.S. Currency Amounts 
  Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at fiscal year-end exchange rates. Revenue and expense items are translated at average foreign currency exchange rates prevailing during the fiscal year. Translation adjustments are included in Accumulated other comprehensive loss. Gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions that are of a long-term investment nature are reported in the same manner as translation adjustments. 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  Cash and cash equivalents consist of all cash balances and liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, including certificates of deposit, time deposits and money market funds. Cash and cash equivalents also include restricted cash of   $45,935   and   $45,132   as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , respectively, which primarily relates to cash held to meet certain insurance requirements. As a result of certain subsidiaries  cash management systems, checks issued but not presented to the banks for payment may create negative book cash balances. Such negative balances are classified as Current portion of long term debt and bank borrowings.  
  Client Receivables, Unbilled Services and Allowances 
  The Company records its client receivables and unbilled services at their face amounts less allowances. On a periodic basis, the Company evaluates its receivables and unbilled services and establishes allowances based on historical experience and other currently available information. As of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , total allowances recorded for client receivables and unbilled services were   $70,165   and   $82,643  , respectively. The allowance reflects the Company s best estimate of collectibility risks on outstanding receivables and unbilled services. In limited circumstances, the Company agrees to extend financing to certain clients. The terms vary by contract, but generally payment for services is contractually linked to the achievement of specified performance milestones. 
  Concentrations of Credit Risk 
  The Company s financial instruments, consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents, foreign currency exchange rate instruments, client receivables and unbilled services, are exposed to concentrations of credit risk. The Company places its cash and cash equivalents and foreign exchange instruments with highly-rated financial institutions, limits the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution and conducts ongoing evaluations of the credit worthiness of the financial institutions with which it does business. Client receivables are dispersed across many different industries and countries; therefore, concentrations of credit risk are limited. 
  Investments 
  All liquid investments with an original maturity greater than three months but less than one year are considered to be short-term investments. Non-current investments are primarily non-marketable equity securities of privately held companies and are accounted for using either the equity or cost methods of accounting, in accordance with the requirements of ASC 323, Investments- Equity Method and Joint Ventures. Marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale investments and reported at fair value  
    F- 11 

     Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   with changes in unrealized gains and losses recorded as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss until realized. Interest and amortization of premiums and discounts for debt securities are included in Interest income.  
  Property and Equipment  
  Property and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property and equipment is computed on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives: 
                 Computers, related equipment and software 
    2 to 7 years 
      Furniture and fixtures 
    5 to 10 years 
      Leasehold improvements 
    Lesser of lease term or 15 years 

Goodwill 
  Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired entity over the fair value of net assets acquired. The Company reviews the recoverability of goodwill by reportable operating segment annually, or more frequently when indicators of impairment exist. Based on the results of its annual impairment analysis, the Company determined that no impairment existed as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , as each reportable operating segment s estimated fair value substantially exceeded its carrying value. 
  Long-Lived Assets 
  Long-lived assets, including deferred contract costs and identifiable intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of long-lived assets or groups of assets is assessed based on a comparison of the carrying amount to the estimated future net cash flows. If estimated future undiscounted net cash flows are less than the carrying amount, the asset is considered impaired and a loss is recorded equal to the amount required to reduce the carrying amount to fair value.  
  Intangible assets with finite lives are generally amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated economic useful lives, ranging from   one   to   fifteen   years. 
  Operating Expenses 
  Selected components of operating expenses were as follows: 

_______________  
           (1) 
    For additional information, see  Client Receivables, Unbilled Services and Allowances . 
     New Accounting Pronouncement 
  On May 28, 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP. The core principle of the ASU is that an entity should recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount that it expects to be entitled to receive for those goods or services. The ASU requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. The ASU will be effective for the Company beginning September 1, 2018, including interim periods in its fiscal year 2019, and allows for both retrospective and prospective methods of adoption. The Company is in the process of determining the method of adoption and assessing the impact of this ASU on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    F- 12 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   2.    EARNINGS PER SHARE 
  Basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Diluted earnings per share assumes the redemption of all Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares owned by holders of noncontrolling interests and the exchange of all Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, on a one-for-one basis. The income effect does not take into account  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests other,  since those shares are not redeemable or exchangeable for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. 

F- 13 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   3.    ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 
  The following table summarizes the changes in the accumulated balances for each component of accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable to Accenture plc: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    As of August 31, 2015,   $19,531   of net losses is expected to be reclassified into net periodic pension expense recognized in Cost of services, Sales and marketing and General and administrative costs in the next twelve months. 
              (2) 
    As of August 31, 2015,   $20,401   of net unrealized losses related to derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is expected to be reclassified into Cost of services in the next twelve months. 
       F- 14 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   4.    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT 
  The components of Property and equipment, net were as follows: 

5.    BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND DIVESTITURE 
  Fiscal   2015   Acquisitions 
  On March 25, 2015, the Company acquired Agilex Technologies, Inc., a provider of digital solutions for the U.S. federal government, for   $264,444  , net of cash acquired. This acquisition enhanced Accenture s digital capabilities in analytics, cloud and mobility for federal agencies and resulted in approximately   730   employees joining the Company. In connection with this acquisition, the Company recorded goodwill of   $206,123  , which was allocated to the Health   Public Service operating segment, and intangible assets of   $50,800  , primarily consisting of customer-related intangibles. The goodwill is non-deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The intangible assets are being amortized over   one   to   eight   years. The pro forma effects of this acquisition on the Company s operations were not material.  
  During fiscal 2015, the Company also completed other individually immaterial acquisitions for total consideration of   $510,236  , net of cash acquired. These acquisitions were completed primarily to expand the Company s products and services offerings. In connection with these acquisitions, the Company recorded goodwill of   $427,435  , which was allocated among the reportable operating segments, and intangible assets of   $120,970  , primarily consisting of customer-related and technology intangibles. The goodwill is partially deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The intangible assets are being amortized over   one   to   eleven   years. The pro forma effects of these acquisitions on the Company s operations were not material. 
  Navitaire Divestiture 
  On July 1, 2015, the Company announced an agreement to sell Navitaire LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture that provides technology and business solutions to the airline industry, to Amadeus IT Holdings SA for total consideration of approximately   $830,000  . The transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals.  
  Subsequent Event 
  On October 20, 2015, the Company acquired Cloud Sherpas (through its holding company Declarative Holdings, Inc.), a leader in cloud advisory and technology services for approximately   $410,000  , net of cash acquired. The acquisition enhances the Company s ability to provide clients with cloud strategy and technology consulting, as well as cloud application implementation, integration and management services. At the date of issuance of the financial statements, the initial business combination accounting was not complete for this acquisition.  
  Fiscal   2014   Acquisitions 
  On December 4, 2013, the Company acquired Procurian Inc. ( Procurian ), a provider of procurement business process solutions, for   $386,407  , net of cash acquired. This acquisition enhanced Accenture s capabilities in procurement business process outsourcing across a range of industries and resulted in approximately   780   employees joining Accenture. In connection with this acquisition, the Company recorded goodwill of   $305,627  , which was allocated to all five reportable operating segments, and intangible assets of   $60,514  , primarily consisting of customer-related and technology intangibles. The goodwill is substantially non-deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The intangible assets are being amortized over   one   to   twelve   years. The pro forma effects of this acquisition on the Company s operations were not material. 
    F- 15 

     Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   During fiscal 2014, the Company also completed other individually immaterial acquisitions for total consideration of   $320,225  , net of cash acquired. These acquisitions were completed primarily to expand the Company s products and services offerings. In connection with these acquisitions, the Company recorded goodwill of   $256,704  , which was allocated among the reportable operating segments, and intangible assets of   $80,305  , primarily consisting of customer-related and technology intangibles. The goodwill is partially deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The intangible assets are being amortized over   one   to   twelve   years. The pro forma effects of these acquisitions on the Company s operations were not material. 
  Fiscal 2013 Acquisitions 
  On July 8, 2013, the Company acquired Acquity Group Ltd. ( Acquity ), a provider of strategy, digital marketing and technical services, for   $282,985  , net of cash acquired. This acquisition expanded Accenture s range of digital marketing services and resulted in more than   600   Acquity employees joining Accenture. In connection with this acquisition, the Company recorded goodwill of   $215,979  , which was allocated to the Products, Communications, Media   Technology and Financial Services reportable operating segments, and intangible assets of   $55,972  , primarily consisting of customer-related and technology intangibles. The intangible assets are being amortized over   one   to   ten   years. The pro forma effects on the Company s operations were not material. 
  During fiscal 2013, the Company also completed other individually immaterial acquisitions, including a provider of clinical and regulatory information management solutions and software for the pharmaceutical industry and a provider of loan origination software and electronic document management services, for total consideration of   $521,003  , net of cash acquired. These acquisitions were completed primarily to expand the Company s products and services offerings. In connection with these acquisitions, the Company recorded goodwill of   $405,151  , which was allocated among the reportable operating segments, and intangible assets of   $122,012  , primarily consisting of customer-related and technology intangibles. The intangible assets are being amortized over   one   to   fifteen   years. The pro forma effects of these acquisitions on the Company s operations were not material. 

F- 16 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   6.    GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
  Goodwill 
  The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable operating segment were as follows: 

Goodwill includes immaterial adjustments related to prior period acquisitions.  
  Intangible Assets 
  The Company s definite-lived intangible assets by major asset class are as follows: 

Total amortization related to the Company s intangible assets was   $99,633   and   $75,232   for fiscal   2015 and 2014  , respectively. Estimated future amortization related to intangible assets held at   August 31, 2015   is as follows:  

F- 17 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   7.    DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
  In the normal course of business, the Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. Derivative transactions are governed by a uniform set of policies and procedures covering areas such as authorization, counterparty exposure and hedging practices. Positions are monitored using techniques such as market value and sensitivity analyses. The Company does not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes. The Company classifies cash flows from its derivative programs as cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Cash Flows Statements. 
  Certain derivatives also give rise to credit risks from the possible non-performance by counterparties. Credit risk is generally limited to the fair value of those contracts that are favorable to the Company, and the maximum amount of loss due to credit risk, based on the gross fair value of all of the Company s derivative financial instruments, was   $60,018   as of   August 31, 2015  . 
  The Company also utilizes standard counterparty master agreements containing provisions for the netting of certain foreign currency transaction obligations and for set-off of certain obligations in the event of an insolvency of one of the parties to the transaction. These provisions may reduce the Company s potential overall loss resulting from the insolvency of a counterparty and reduce a counterparty s potential overall loss resulting from the insolvency of the Company. Additionally, these agreements contain early termination provisions triggered by adverse changes in a counterparty s credit rating, thereby enabling the Company to accelerate settlement of a transaction prior to its contractual maturity and potentially decrease the Company s realized loss on an open transaction. Similarly, a decrement in the Company s credit rating could trigger a counterparty s early termination rights, thereby enabling a counterparty to accelerate settlement of a transaction prior to its contractual maturity and potentially increase the Company s realized loss on an open transaction. The aggregate fair value of the Company s derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a liability position as of   August 31, 2015   was   $129,291  . 
  The Company s derivative financial instruments consist of deliverable and non-deliverable foreign currency forward contracts. Fair values for derivative financial instruments are based on prices computed using third-party valuation models and are classified as Level 2 in accordance with the three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements. All of the significant inputs to the third-party valuation models are observable in active markets. Inputs include current market-based parameters such as forward rates, yield curves and credit default swap pricing. For additional information related to the three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements, see Note 10 (Retirement and Profit Sharing Plans) to these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Cash Flow Hedges 
  Certain of the Company s subsidiaries are exposed to currency risk through their use of resources supplied by the Company s Global Delivery Network. To mitigate this risk, the Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the foreign exchange risk of the forecasted intercompany expenses denominated in foreign currencies for up to three years in the future. The Company has designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges. As of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , the Company held no derivatives that were designated as fair value or net investment hedges. 
  In order for a derivative to qualify for hedge accounting, the derivative must be formally designated as a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge by documenting the relationship between the derivative and the hedged item. The documentation includes a description of the hedging instrument, the hedge item, the risk being hedged, the Company s risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge, the method for assessing the effectiveness of the hedge and the method for measuring hedge ineffectiveness. Additionally, the hedge relationship must be expected to be highly effective at offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item at both inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis. The Company assesses the ongoing effectiveness of its hedges using the Hypothetical Derivative Method, which measures hedge ineffectiveness based on a comparison of the change in fair value of the actual derivative designated as the hedging instrument and the change in fair value of a hypothetical derivative. The hypothetical derivative would have terms that identically match the critical terms of the hedged item. The Company measures and records hedge ineffectiveness at the end of each fiscal quarter. 
  For a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in estimated fair value of a hedging instrument is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of Shareholders  Equity and is reclassified into Cost of services in the Consolidated Income Statement during the period in which the hedged transaction is recognized. The amounts related to derivatives designated as cash flow hedges that were reclassified into Cost of services were a net gain of   $15,207   during fiscal   2015  , and a net loss of   $101,026   and   $49,954   during fiscal   2014 and 2013  , respectively. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of a cash flow hedge is recognized immediately in   Other expense, net   in the Consolidated Income Statement and for fiscal   2015, 2014 and 2013  , was not material. In addition, the Company did not discontinue any cash flow hedges during fiscal   2015, 2014 and 2013  .  
    F- 18 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   Other Derivatives 
  The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts, which have not been designated as hedges, to hedge balance sheet exposures, such as intercompany loans. These instruments are generally short-term in nature, with typical maturities of less than one year, and are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Realized gains or losses and changes in the estimated fair value of these derivatives were a net loss of   $257,783  , a net gain of   $78,446   and a net loss of   $142,432   for fiscal   2015, 2014 and 2013  , respectively. Gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in   Other expense, net   in the Consolidated Income Statement and are offset by gains and losses on the related hedged items.  
  Fair Value of Derivative Instruments 
  The notional and fair values of all derivative instruments were as follows: 

The Company utilizes standard counterparty master agreements containing provisions for the netting of certain foreign currency transaction obligations and for the set-off of certain obligations in the event of an insolvency of one of the parties to the transaction. In the Consolidated Balance Sheets, the Company records derivative assets and liabilities at gross fair value. The potential effect of netting derivative assets against liabilities under the counterparty master agreements was as follows: 

F- 19 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   8.    BORROWINGS AND INDEBTEDNESS 
  As of   August 31, 2015  , the Company had the following borrowing facilities, including the issuance of letters of credit, to support general working capital purposes: 

_______________  
           (1) 
    This facility, which matures on   October 31, 2016  , provides unsecured, revolving borrowing capacity for general working capital purposes, including the issuance of letters of credit. Financing is provided under this facility at the prime rate or at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread. The Company continues to be in compliance with relevant covenant terms. The facility is subject to annual commitment fees. As of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , the Company had   no   borrowings under the facility. 
              (2) 
    The Company maintains separate, uncommitted and unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities. These facilities provide local currency financing for the majority of the Company s operations. Interest rate terms on the revolving facilities are at market rates prevailing in the relevant local markets. As of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , the Company had   no   borrowings under these facilities. 
              (3) 
    The Company also maintains local guaranteed and non-guaranteed lines of credit for those locations that cannot access the Company s global facilities. As of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , the Company had   no   borrowings under these various facilities. 
     Under the borrowing facilities described above, the Company had an aggregate of   $166,506   and   $169,510   of letters of credit outstanding as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , respectively. In addition, the Company had total outstanding debt of   $27,435   and   $26,733   as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , respectively. 
    F- 20 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   9.    INCOME TAXES 

The components of Income before income taxes were as follows: 

The reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the Company s effective income tax rate was as follows: 

_______________  
           (1) 
    Final determinations include final agreements with tax authorities and expirations of statutes of limitations. 
       
  During   fiscal 2015  , the Company concluded that substantially all of the undistributed earnings of its U.S. subsidiaries would no longer be considered permanently reinvested and recorded an estimated tax liability of   $247,097   for withholding taxes payable on the distribution of these earnings. These earnings were distributed in the form of a U.S. dividend declared and paid on August 26, 2015. The Company intends to permanently reinvest any future U.S. earnings. As of   August 31, 2015  , the Company had not recognized a deferred tax liability on   $538,384   of undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries, because these earnings are intended to be permanently reinvested. If such earnings were distributed, some countries may impose additional taxes. The unrecognized deferred tax liability (the amount payable if distributed) is approximately   $66,000  . 
  Portions of the Company s operations are subject to reduced tax rates or are free of tax under various tax holidays which expire between fiscal   2016   and   2020  . Some of the holidays are renewable at reduced levels, under certain conditions, with possible  
    F- 21 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   renewal periods through   2030  . The income tax benefits attributable to the tax status of these subsidiaries were estimated to be approximately   $111,000  ,   $91,000   and   $84,000   in fiscal   2015, 2014 and 2013  , respectively. 
  The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of enacted changes in tax laws and tax rates did not have a material impact on the Company s effective tax rate. 
  The components of the Company s deferred tax assets and liabilities included the following: 

The Company recorded valuation allowances of   $1,229,146   and   $374,534   as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , respectively, against deferred tax assets principally associated with certain tax credit and tax net operating loss carryforwards, as the Company believes it is more likely than not that these assets will not be realized. For all other deferred tax assets, the Company believes it is more likely than not that the results of future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize these deferred tax assets. During fiscal   2015  , the Company recorded a net increase of   $854,612   in the valuation allowance. The majority of this change related to valuation allowances on the increase in tax credit carryforwards, primarily foreign tax credits created by the U.S. dividend, as the Company believes it is more likely than not that these assets will not be realized. 
  The Company had tax credit carryforwards as of   August 31, 2015   of   $1,179,988  , of which   $34,968   will expire between   2016 and 2025  ,   $1,046   will expire between   2026 and 2035  , and   $1,143,974   has an indefinite carryforward period. The Company had net operating loss carryforwards as of   August 31, 2015   of   $461,151  . Of this amount,   $167,425   expires between   2016 and 2025  ,   $3,131   expires between   2026 and 2035  , and   $290,595   has an indefinite carryforward period. 
  As of   August 31, 2015  , the Company had   $997,935   of unrecognized tax benefits, of which   $534,929  , if recognized, would favorably affect the Company s effective tax rate. As of   August 31, 2014  , the Company had   $1,333,606   of unrecognized tax benefits, of which   $643,477  , if recognized, would favorably affect the Company s effective tax rate. The remaining unrecognized benefits as of August 31, 2015 and 2014 of   $463,006   and   $690,129  , respectively, represent items recorded as adjustments to equity and offsetting tax benefits associated with the correlative effects of potential transfer pricing adjustments, state income taxes and timing adjustments.  
    F- 22 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits was as follows: 

The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the Provision for income taxes. During fiscal   2015, 2014 and 2013  , the Company recognized (benefit) expense of   $(17,373)  ,   $16,370   and   $(46,602)   in interest and penalties, respectively. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits of   $101,843   (  $84,530  , net of tax benefits) and   $135,821   (  $105,341  , net of tax benefits) were reflected on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , respectively. 
  The Company is currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) for fiscal 2013 and 2014. The audit by the IRS for fiscal 2010 to 2011 closed during fiscal 2015. By agreement with the IRS, the Company filed an amended return for fiscal 2012 with adjustments to which the IRS agreed. The Company is also currently under audit in numerous state and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain and could result in significant cash tax payments, the Company does not believe the outcome of these audits will have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position or results of operations. With limited exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to income tax audits by taxing authorities for the years before 2006. The Company believes that it is reasonably possible that its unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by approximately   $567,000   or increase by approximately   $98,000   in the next 12 months as a result of settlements, lapses of statutes of limitations and other adjustments. The majority of these amounts relate to transfer pricing matters in both U.S. and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. 
    
    F- 23 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   10.    RETIREMENT AND PROFIT SHARING PLANS 
  Defined Benefit Pension and Postretirement Plans 
  In the United States and certain other countries, the Company maintains and administers defined benefit retirement plans and postretirement medical plans for certain current, retired and resigned employees. In addition, the Company s U.S. defined benefit pension plans include a frozen plan for former pre-incorporation partners, which is unfunded. Benefits under the employee retirement plans are primarily based on years of service and compensation during the years immediately preceding retirement or termination of participation in the plan. The defined benefit pension disclosures include the Company s U.S. and material non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans.  
  Postemployment Plans 
  Certain postemployment benefits, including severance benefits, disability-related benefits and continuation of benefits, such as healthcare benefits and life insurance coverage, are provided to former or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. These costs are not material and are substantially provided for on an accrual basis. 
  Assumptions 
  The weighted-average assumptions used to determine the defined benefit pension obligations as of August 31 and the net periodic pension expense were as follows: 

_______________  
           (1) 
    Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. 
       
  Beginning in fiscal 2016, the Company will change the method it uses to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic pension expense. Historically, the Company selected a discount rate for the U.S. plans by matching the plans  cash flows to that of the average of two yield curves that provide the equivalent yields on zero-coupon corporate bonds for each maturity. The discount rate assumption for the non-U.S. Plans primarily reflected the market rate for high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments. Beginning in fiscal 2016, the Company will utilize a full yield curve approach to estimate these components by applying specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. The Company will make this change to improve the correlation between projected benefit cash flows and the corresponding yield curve spot rates and to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs. This change does not affect the measurement of the Company s total benefit obligations. The Company will account for this change as a change in estimate and, accordingly, will recognize its effect prospectively beginning in fiscal 2016.   
  The discount rate assumptions are based on the expected duration of the benefit payments for each of the Company s defined benefit pension and postretirement plans as of the annual measurement date and is subject to change each year.  
  The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets should, over time, approximate the actual long-term returns on defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets and is based on historical returns and the future expectations for returns for each asset class, as well as the target asset allocation of the asset portfolio. 
    F- 24 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   Assumed U.S. Health Care Cost Trend 
  The Company s U.S. postretirement plan assumed annual rate increase in the per capita cost of health care benefits is   7.0%    for the plan year ending June 30, 2016. The rate is assumed to decrease on a straight-line basis to   4.5%   for the plan year ending June 30, 2027 and remain at that level thereafter. A one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would increase the benefit obligation by   $55,255  , while a one percentage point decrease would reduce the benefit obligation by   $43,037  . 
   U.S. Defined Benefit Pension Plan Settlement Charge 
  On January 12, 2015, the Company announced a plan to offer a voluntary one-time lump sum payment option to certain  eligible former employees who had vested benefits under the Company s U.S. pension plan, that if accepted, would settle the Company s pension obligations to them.   
  The lump sum cash payment offer closed during the third quarter of fiscal 2015. In total, more than   4,800   former participants accepted the offer, resulting in lump sum payments from plan assets of   $279,571   in May 2015. As a result of this settlement and the adoption of the new U.S. mortality tables released by the Society of Actuaries, the Company remeasured the assets and liabilities of the U.S. pension plan during the third quarter of fiscal 2015, which in aggregate resulted in a net reduction to the projected benefit obligation of   $179,938   as well as a non-cash settlement charge of   $64,382  , pre-tax, in the third quarter of fiscal 2015.  
  Pension and Postretirement Expense 
  Pension expense for fiscal   2015, 2014 and 2013   was   $143,968   (including the above noted settlement charge),   $87,422   and   $91,771  , respectively. Postretirement expense for fiscal   2015, 2014 and 2013   was not material to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    F- 25 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   Benefit Obligation, Plan Assets and Funded Status 
  The changes in the benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of the Company s pension and postretirement benefit plans for fiscal   2015 and 2014   were as follows: 

F- 26 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
  The pre-tax accumulated net loss and prior service (credit) cost recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014   was as follows: 

Funded Status for Defined Benefit Plans 
  The accumulated benefit obligation for defined benefit pension plans as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014   was as follows: 

The following information is provided for defined benefit pension plans and postretirement plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets and for defined benefit pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  : 

F- 27 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   Investment Strategies 
  U.S. Pension Plans 
  The overall investment objective of the plans is to provide growth in the defined benefit pension plans  assets to help fund future defined benefit pension obligations while managing risk in order to meet current defined benefit pension obligations. The plans  future prospects, their current financial conditions, the Company s current funding levels and other relevant factors suggest that the plans can tolerate some interim fluctuations in market value and rates of return in order to achieve long-term objectives without undue risk to the plans  ability to meet their current benefit obligations. The Company recognizes that asset allocation of the defined benefit pension plans  assets is an important factor in determining long-term performance. Actual asset allocations at any point in time may vary from the target asset allocations and will be dictated by current and anticipated market conditions, required cash flows and investment decisions of the investment committee and the pension plans  investment funds and managers. Ranges are established to provide flexibility for the asset allocation to vary around the targets without the need for immediate rebalancing. 
  Non-U.S. Pension Plans 
  Plan assets in non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans conform to the investment policies and procedures of each plan and to relevant legislation. The pension committee or trustee of each plan regularly, but at least annually, reviews the investment policy and the performance of the investment managers. In certain countries, the trustee is also required to consult with the Company. Asset allocation decisions are made to provide risk adjusted returns that align with the overall investment strategy for each plan. Generally, the investment return objective of each plan is to achieve a total annualized rate of return that exceeds inflation over the long term by an amount based on the target asset allocation mix of that plan. In certain countries, plan assets are invested in funds that are required to hold a majority of assets in bonds, with a smaller proportion in equities. Also, certain plan assets are entirely invested in contracts held with the plan insurer, which determines the strategy. Defined benefit pension plans in certain countries are unfunded. 
  Risk Management 
  Plan investments are exposed to certain risks including market, interest rate and operating risk. In order to mitigate significant concentrations of these risks, the assets are invested in a diversified portfolio primarily consisting of fixed income instruments and equities. To minimize asset volatility relative to the liabilities, plan assets allocated to debt securities appropriately match the duration of individual plan liabilities. Equities are diversified between U.S. and non-U.S. index funds and are intended to achieve long term capital appreciation. Plan asset allocation and investment managers  guidelines are reviewed on a regular basis. 
  Plan Assets 
  The Company s target allocation for fiscal   2016   and weighted-average plan assets allocations as of   August 31, 2015 and 2014   by asset category, for defined benefit pension plans were as follows: 

F- 28 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   Fair Value Measurements 
  Fair value is the price that would be received upon sale of an asset or paid upon transfer of a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date and in the principal or most advantageous market for that asset or liability. The fair value should be calculated based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, not on assumptions specific to the entity. 
  The three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements is based on whether the inputs to those measurements are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company s market assumptions. The fair-value hierarchy requires the use of observable market data when available and consists of the following levels: 
             
    Level 1 Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets; 
                
    Level 2 Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs are observable in active markets; and 
                
    Level 3 Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable. 
     The fair values of defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets as of   August 31, 2015   were as follows: 

There were no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 during   fiscal 2015  . 
    F- 29 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   Expected Contributions 
  Generally, annual contributions are made at such times and in amounts as required by law and may, from time to time, exceed minimum funding requirements. The Company estimates it will pay approximately   $67,047   in fiscal   2016   related to contributions to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans and benefit payments related to the unfunded frozen plan for former pre-incorporation partners. The Company has not determined whether it will make additional voluntary contributions for its defined benefit pension plans. The Company s postretirement plan contributions in fiscal 2016 are not expected to be material to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Estimated Future Benefit Payments 
  Benefit payments for defined benefit pension plans and postretirement plans, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows: 

Defined Contribution Plans 
  In the United States and certain other countries, the Company maintains and administers defined contribution plans for certain current, retired and resigned employees. Total expenses recorded for defined contribution plans were   $397,123  ,   $331,801   and   $448,370   in fiscal   2015, 2014 and 2013  , respectively. 
    11.    SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION 
  Share Incentive Plans 
  The Accenture plc 2010 Share Incentive Plan, as amended and approved by our shareholders in 2013 (the  Amended 2010 SIP ), is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Accenture and provides for the grant of nonqualified share options, incentive stock options, restricted share units and other share-based awards. A maximum of   74,000,000   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares are currently authorized for awards under the Amended 2010 SIP. As of   August 31, 2015  , there were   22,447,337   shares available for future grants. Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares covered by awards that terminate, lapse or are cancelled may again be used to satisfy awards under the Amended 2010 SIP. The Company issues new Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and shares from treasury for shares delivered under the Amended 2010 SIP. 
  A summary of information with respect to share-based compensation is as follows: 

F- 30 

     Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   Restricted Share Units 
  Under the Amended 2010 SIP participants may be, and previously under the predecessor 2001 Share Incentive Plan were, granted restricted share units, each of which represent an unfunded, unsecured right to receive an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share on the date specified in the participant s award agreement. The fair value of the awards is based on the Company s stock price on the date of grant. The restricted share units granted under these plans are subject to cliff or graded vesting, generally ranging from   two   to   seven   years. For awards with graded vesting, compensation expense is recognized over the vesting term of each separately vesting portion. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis for awards with cliff vesting. Restricted share unit activity during fiscal   2015   was as follows: 

_______________ 
    As of   August 31, 2015  , there was   $571,556   of total restricted share unit compensation expense related to nonvested awards not yet recognized, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of   1.3   years. As of   August 31, 2015  , there were   1,053,826   restricted share units vested but not yet delivered as Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. 
  Stock Options 
  There were no stock options granted during fiscal   2015, 2014 and 2013  . Stock option activity for fiscal   2015   was as follows: 

F- 31 

     Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   Other information pertaining to option activity is as follows: 

Cash received from the exercise of stock options was   $43,803   and the income tax benefit realized from the exercise of stock options was   $13,659   for fiscal   2015  . Remaining stock option compensation expense related to nonvested awards was immaterial as of   August 31, 2015  . 
  Employee Share Purchase Plan 
  2010 ESPP 
  The 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  2010 ESPP ) is a nonqualified plan that provides eligible employees of Accenture plc and its designated affiliates with an opportunity to purchase Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares through payroll deductions. Under the 2010 ESPP, eligible employees may purchase Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares through the Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ) or the Voluntary Equity Investment Program (the  VEIP ). Under the ESPP, eligible employees may elect to contribute   1%   to   10%   of their compensation during each semi-annual offering period (up to   $7.5   per offering period) to purchase Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at a discount. Under the VEIP, eligible members of Accenture Leadership may elect to contribute up to   30%   of their compensation towards the monthly purchase of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at fair market value. At the end of the VEIP program year, Accenture Leadership participants, who did not withdraw from the program, will be granted restricted share units under the Amended 2010 SIP equal to   50%   of the number of shares purchased during that year. 
  A maximum of   45,000,000   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares may be issued under the 2010 ESPP. As of   August 31, 2015  , the Company had issued   36,729,462   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under the 2010 ESPP. The Company issued   6,232,031  ,   7,067,832   and   6,916,088   shares to employees in fiscal   2015, 2014 and 2013  , respectively, under the 2010 ESPP. 
    12.    SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 
  Accenture plc 
  Ordinary Shares 
  The Company has   40,000   authorized ordinary shares, par value    1   per share. Each ordinary share of Accenture plc entitles its holder to receive payments upon a liquidation of Accenture plc; however a holder of an ordinary share is not entitled to vote on matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of Accenture plc or to receive dividends. 
  Class A Ordinary Shares 
  An Accenture plc Class A ordinary share entitles its holder to   one   vote per share, and holders of those shares do not have cumulative voting rights. Each Class A ordinary share entitles its holder to a pro rata part of any dividend at the times and in the amounts, if any, which Accenture plc s Board of Directors from time to time determines to declare, subject to any preferred dividend rights attaching to any preferred shares. Each Class A ordinary share is entitled on a winding-up of Accenture plc to be paid a pro rata part of the value of the assets of Accenture plc remaining after payment of its liabilities, subject to any preferred rights on liquidation attaching to any preferred shares. 
  Class X Ordinary Shares 
  An Accenture plc Class X ordinary share entitles its holder to   one   vote per share, and holders of those shares do not have cumulative voting rights. A Class X ordinary share does not entitle its holder to receive dividends, and holders of those shares are not entitled to be paid any amount upon a winding-up of Accenture plc. Most of the Company s partners who received Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares in connection with the Company s transition to a corporate structure received a corresponding number of Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares. Accenture plc may redeem, at its option, any Class X ordinary share for a redemption price equal to the par value of the Class X ordinary share. Accenture plc has separately agreed with the original holders of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares not to redeem any Class X ordinary share of such holder if the redemption would reduce the number of Class X ordinary shares held by that holder to a number that is less than the number of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares or  
    F- 32 

     Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares owned by that holder, as the case may be. Accenture plc will redeem Class X ordinary shares upon the redemption or exchange of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares so that the aggregate number of Class X ordinary shares outstanding at any time does not exceed the aggregate number of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares outstanding. Class X ordinary shares are not transferable without the consent of Accenture plc. 
  Equity of Subsidiaries Redeemable or Exchangeable for Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares 
  Accenture Holdings plc ordinary Shares 
  Members of Accenture Leadership in certain countries, including the United States, received Accenture SCA Class I common shares in connection with the Company s transition to a corporate structure. On June 26, 2015, the shareholders of Accenture SCA approved a merger of Accenture SCA with and into Accenture Holdings plc, an Irish public limited company and direct subsidiary of Accenture plc, with Accenture Holdings plc as the surviving entity (the  Merger ).  In connection with the Merger, which was completed on August 26, 2015, holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares (other than Accenture SCA itself) received, on a one-for-one basis, ordinary shares of Accenture Holdings plc. Only Accenture plc, Accenture Holdings plc, Accenture International S. .r.l. and certain current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees hold Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares. Each Accenture Holdings plc share entitles its holder to   one   vote on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of Accenture Holdings plc and entitles its holders to dividends and liquidation payments. 
  Accenture Holdings plc is obligated, at the option of the holder, to redeem any outstanding Accenture Holdings plc ordinary share at a redemption price per share generally equal to its current market value as determined in accordance with Accenture Holdings plc s memorandum and articles of association. Under Accenture Holdings plc s memorandum and articles of association, the market value of an ordinary share will be deemed to be equal to (i) the average of the high and low sales prices of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs, or (ii) if Accenture sells its Class A ordinary shares on the date that the redemption price is determined (other than in a transaction with any employee or an affiliate or pursuant to a preexisting obligation), the weighted average sales price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share on the New York Stock Exchange, net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs. Accenture Holdings plc may, at its option, pay this redemption price with cash or by causing Accenture plc to deliver Class A ordinary shares on a   one  -for-one basis. Each holder of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares is entitled to a pro rata part of any dividend and to the value of any remaining assets of Accenture Holdings plc after payment of its liabilities upon dissolution. 
  Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. Exchangeable Shares 
  Partners resident in Canada and New Zealand received Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares in connection with the Company s transition to a corporate structure. Holders of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares may exchange their shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at any time on a one-for-one basis. The Company may, at its option, satisfy this exchange with cash at a price per share generally equal to the market price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share at the time of the exchange. Each exchangeable share of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. entitles its holder to receive distributions equal to any distributions to which an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share entitles its holder. 
    
    F- 33 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   13.    MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 
  Share Purchases and Redemptions 
  The Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized funding for the Company s publicly announced open-market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares (or, prior to August 26, 2015, Accenture SCA Class I common shares) and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares held by current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees. As of   August 31, 2015  , the Company s aggregate available authorization was   $2,580,779   for its publicly announced open-market share purchase and these other share purchase programs. 
  The Company s share purchase activity during fiscal   2015   was as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    The Company conducts a publicly announced, open-market share purchase program for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. These shares are held as treasury shares by Accenture plc and may be utilized to provide for select employee benefits, such as equity awards to the Company s employees. 
              (2) 
    During fiscal   2015  , as authorized under the Company s various employee equity share plans, the Company acquired Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares primarily via share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection with the delivery of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under those plans. These purchases of shares in connection with employee share plans do not affect the Company s aggregate available authorization for the Company s publicly announced open-market share purchase and the other share purchase programs. 
     Other Share Redemptions 
  During fiscal   2015  , the Company issued   6,240,119   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares upon redemptions of an equivalent number of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares pursuant to its registration statement on Form S-3 (the  registration statement ). The registration statement allows the Company, at its option, to issue freely tradable Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares in lieu of cash upon redemptions of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares held by current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees. 
  Dividends 
  The Company s dividend activity during fiscal   2015   was as follows: 

The payment of the cash dividends also resulted in the issuance of an immaterial number of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units.  
    F- 34 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   Subsequent Event 
  On   September 21, 2015  , the Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of   $1.10   per share on its Class A ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on   October 16, 2015  . On   September 23, 2015  , the Board of Directors of Accenture Holdings plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of   $1.10   per share on its ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on   October 13, 2015  . Both dividends are payable on   November 13, 2015  . The payment of the cash dividends will result in the issuance of an immaterial number of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units. 
  On   September 21, 2015  , the Board of Directors of Accenture plc approved   $5,000,000   in additional share repurchase authority bringing Accenture s total outstanding authority to   $7,580,779  . 
    14.    LEASE COMMITMENTS 
  The Company has operating leases, principally for office space, with various renewal options. Substantially all operating leases are non-cancelable or cancelable only by the payment of penalties. Rental expense in agreements with rent holidays and scheduled rent increases is recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Rental expense, including operating costs and taxes, and sublease income from third parties during fiscal   2015, 2014 and 2013   was as follows: 

Future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases as of   August 31, 2015   were as follows: 

F- 35 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   15.    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
  Commitments 
  The Company has the right to purchase or may also be required to purchase substantially all of the remaining outstanding shares of its Avanade Inc. subsidiary ( Avanade ) not owned by the Company at fair value if certain events occur. Certain holders of Avanade common stock and options to purchase the stock have put rights that, under certain circumstances and conditions, would require Avanade to redeem shares of its stock at fair value. As of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , the Company has reflected the fair value of   $79,023   and   $95,581  , respectively, related to Avanade s redeemable common stock and the intrinsic value of the options on redeemable common stock in Other accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  Indemnifications and Guarantees 
  In the normal course of business and in conjunction with certain client engagements, the Company has entered into contractual arrangements through which it may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. These arrangements with clients can include provisions whereby the Company has joint and several liability in relation to the performance of certain contractual obligations along with third parties also providing services and products for a specific project. In addition, the Company s consulting arrangements may include warranty provisions that the Company s solutions will substantially operate in accordance with the applicable system requirements. Indemnification provisions are also included in arrangements under which the Company agrees to hold the indemnified party harmless with respect to third-party claims related to such matters as title to assets sold or licensed or certain intellectual property rights. 
  Typically, the Company has contractual recourse against third parties for certain payments made by the Company in connection with arrangements where third-party nonperformance has given rise to the client s claim. Payments by the Company under any of the arrangements described above are generally conditioned on the client making a claim, which may be disputed by the Company typically under dispute resolution procedures specified in the particular arrangement. The limitations of liability under these arrangements may be expressly limited or may not be expressly specified in terms of time and/or amount. 
  As of   August 31, 2015 and 2014  , the Company s aggregate potential liability to its clients for expressly limited guarantees involving the performance of third parties was approximately   $655,000   and   $768,000  , respectively, of which all but approximately   $43,000   and   $8,000  , respectively, may be recovered from the other third parties if the Company is obligated to make payments to the indemnified parties as a consequence of a performance default by the other third parties. For arrangements with unspecified limitations, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the aggregate maximum potential liability, as it is inherently difficult to predict the maximum potential amount of such payments, due to the conditional nature and unique facts of each particular arrangement. 
  To date, the Company has not been required to make any significant payment under any of the arrangements described above. The Company has assessed the current status of performance/payment risk related to arrangements with limited guarantees, warranty obligations, unspecified limitations and/or indemnification provisions and believes that any potential payments would be immaterial to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as a whole. 
  Legal Contingencies 
  As of   August 31, 2015  , the Company or its present personnel had been named as a defendant in various litigation matters. The Company and/or its personnel also from time to time are involved in investigations by various regulatory or legal authorities concerning matters arising in the course of its business around the world. Based on the present status of these matters, management believes the range of reasonably possible losses in addition to amounts accrued, net of insurance recoveries, will not have a material effect on the Company s results of operations or financial condition. 
    F- 36 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   16.    SEGMENT REPORTING 
  Operating segments are components of an enterprise where separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. 
  The Company s chief operating decision maker is its Chief Executive Officer. The Company s operating segments are managed separately because each operating segment represents a strategic business unit providing consulting and outsourcing services to clients in different industries. 
     The Company s reportable operating segments are the five operating groups, which are Communications, Media   Technology, Financial Services, Health   Public Service, Products and Resources. Information regarding the Company s reportable operating segments is as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Amounts include depreciation on property and equipment and amortization of intangible assets controlled by each operating segment, as well as an allocation for amounts they do not directly control.  
              (2) 
    The Company does not allocate total assets by operating segment. Operating segment assets directly attributed to an operating segment and provided to the chief operating decision maker include Receivables from clients, current and non-current Unbilled services, Deferred contract costs and current and non-current Deferred revenues. 
     The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    F- 37 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   Revenues are attributed to geographic regions and countries based on where client services are supervised. Information regarding geographic regions and countries is as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Effective September 1, 2014, we revised the reporting of our geographic regions as follows: North America (the United States and Canada); Europe; and Growth Markets (Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, Russia and Turkey). Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. 
     The Company s business in the United States represented   43%  ,   40%   and   39%   of its consolidated net revenues during fiscal   2015, 2014 and 2013  , respectively. No other country individually comprised 10% or more of the Company s consolidated net revenues during these periods.  
  The Company conducts business in the following countries that hold 10% or more of its total consolidated Property and equipment, net: 

Revenues by type of work were as follows: 

F- 38 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

   17.    QUARTERLY DATA (unaudited) 

F- 39 

       Table of Contents  
  ACCENTURE PLC 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued) 
  (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

F- 40 

<EX-10.17>
 2
 acn831201510k-exhibit1017.htm
 FORM OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT WITH EXECUTIVE OFFICERS IN SINGAPORE

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.17 

Employment Agreement 
  Republic of Singapore 

[____Name____] 
    Singapore                        1 

Contents 
        
  Clause 
  Number 

Heading 
  (NB, defined terms are set out in clause G5.3 on page 22 and following) 

Page 
  4 

A. 
    Commencement, term and ability to work 
  Commencement and term 
  Lawful authority to work 
  Visas, work permits,  
  Warranties relating to ability to perform duties and past employment 
  Competency to carry out duties 
    4 
  4 
  4 
  4 
  5 
  5 

B. 
    Performance of duties 
  Location of employment 
  Requirement to work in other locations and for others 
  Assuming offices with Accenture and others 
  Flexibility requirements 
  General responsibilities 
  General duties 
  Conflicts of interest 
  Requirement not to perform duties 
  Change of title 
  Reporting lines 
    6 
  6 
  6 
  6 
  6 
  6 
  6 
  7 
  8 
  8 
  8 

C. 
    Conditions of employment 
  Hours of work 
  Compensation and benefits 
  Payment of salary 
  Reimbursement of business expenses 
  Recovery of business expenses incorrectly reimbursed 
  Holiday / vacation entitlement 
  Payment of vacation entitlement on termination 
  Public Holidays 
  Parental leave 
  Sick leave and fitness for work 
  Insurances 
  Equity Ownership Guidelines 
    8 
  8 
  8 
  9 
  9 
  10 
  10 
  10 
  10 
  10 
  10 
  10 
  11 

D. 
    Working at Accenture 
  Policies, practices and program 
  Standards of conduct and behaviour 
  Use of Accenture's facilities 
  Data protection 
    11 
  11 
  11 
  11 
  13 

E. 
    Business Protection 
  Confidentiality 
  Ownership of intellectual property 
  Post-employment restrictions 
  Authority 
    14 
  14 
  14 
  17 
  17 

Singapore                        2 

F. 
    Termination of Employment 
  Immediate termination by Accenture 
  Payments on immediate termination 
  Termination on notice by Accenture 
  Resignation 
  Payment in lieu of notice 
  Work arrangements during notice period 
  Commencing work with a third party 
  Resignation from offices and payment of debts 
  Suitable alternative employment 
  Return of Accenture property, Confidential Information, etc 
    17 
  17 
  18 
  18 
  18 
  18 
  18 
  19 
  19 
  20 
  20 

G. 
    General Provisions 
  Entire agreement 
  Enforcement 
  Invalid or unenforceable provisions 
  Governing law 
  Interpretation 
  Exercise of discretion 
  Variation of this Agreement 
  Understanding of Agreement 
    21 
  21 
  21 
  21 
  22 
  22 
  25 
  25 
  25 

Annexure A 
  Compensation Summary 
  1. Career Level 
  2. Cash Compensation 
  3. Global Management Committee Equity Programs 
    26 
  26 
  26 
  26 
  26 

Annexure B 
  Post-Employment Restrictions 
  Definitions 
  Restrained Activities 
  Exceptions 
  Injunctive relief and other remedies 
  Severance 
  Waiver of Restrictions 
  Competitive Enterprises 
  Extension of scope of protection to Affiliates and Related Entities 
    27 
  27 
  27 
  30 
  31 
  31 
  31 
  32 
  32 
  32 

Singapore                        3 

Employment Agreement 

The parties agree to the following terms and conditions: 
    
  (NB, defined terms are set out in clause G5.3 on page 22 and following) 
  
           A. 
    Commencement, term and ability to work 
     Commencement and term 
           A1.1 
    From [_____date_____] (  Commencement Date  ) your employment with Accenture will be governed by the following terms and conditions     and will continue until terminated by you or Accenture in accordance with this Agreement. You are appointed a Global Management Committee member. The term Global Management Committee member is for internal and external use. However, Accenture may direct you as to conditions on the use of this title, including through the issue of guidelines, policies and procedures from time to time. 
              A1.2 
    You acknowledge that, notwithstanding the title "Global Management Committee member , nothing in this Agreement is intended to effect your appointment to the position of a statutory officer of Accenture or any Affiliate. Any such appointments shall be made separately, and you must not hold yourself out as a statutory director of Accenture by reason of clause A1.1 above. 
              A1.3 
    Your service for all purposes with Accenture will be treated as continuous from [_____date_____] with the exception of your eligibility for Singapore benefits which starts on your commencement date in Singapore. 
     Lawful authority to work 
           A2 
    You warrant that you have lawful authority to work in the Republic of Singapore and that you are not and will not be in breach of any legal obligation by entering into this Agreement or by performing your duties under this Agreement. 
     Visas, work permits, licences etc. 
           A3.1 
    Your employment with Accenture is at all times conditional upon you obtaining and retaining all necessary visas, work permits, licences, registrations, or memberships (  Work Authorisation  ) to enable you to lawfully reside and work in the Republic of Singapore and fulfil the duties of your position. You are obliged to inform Accenture immediately of the termination, expiry or any variation of your Work Authorisation or of anything which could result in the termination, expiry or any variation of your current Work Authorisation. 
       Singapore                        4 

A3.2 
    Your employment with Accenture is at all times conditional upon you passing, to the satisfaction of Accenture, any previous employment and/or backgrounds checks Accenture requires you to undertake before or during your employment.  
              A3.3 
    You agree that you are under a duty to co-operate with any requests to undergo previous employment and background checks, whether made by Accenture, an Affiliate or a client or prospective client, which are deemed reasonably necessary by Accenture, subject to local legal requirements and Accenture policies. These background checks may include, but are not limited to, security checks, immigration status checks, criminal record checks, credit checks and relevant regulatory requirements applicable in the sector in which you, or Accenture, or any client for whom you undertake work, operate.  You also agree that you are under a duty to co-operate in attending any interviews required by a client or prospective client before undertaking an assignment. You agree that, given the nature of Accenture's business, it is reasonable for Accenture to impose these duties. You also acknowledge that you may be asked, as a result of client requirements or other business reasons, to undergo drug and alcohol testing. 
     Warranties relating to ability to perform duties and past employment 
           A4.1 
    You warrant that you are not subject to any direct or indirect restrictions on your ability to fully perform the duties of your position and will not be breaching any obligation to a third party by entering into this Agreement or by performing duties under this Agreement, including without limitation, any unexpired post-termination restrictions such as non-competition or non-dealing with customer restrictions which you owe to a former employer. 
              A4.2 
    You further warrant that at all times you will: 
              (a) 
    not, during your employment with Accenture, improperly use or disclose any proprietary information or trade secrets of any former employers and that you will not bring on to the premises of Accenture any documents (regardless of the media on which those documents are contained) or any property belonging to your former employers, their clients, or their prospective clients unless consented to in writing by such employers; 
              (b) 
    immediately notify Accenture of any circumstances which a former employer, their clients, or their prospective clients could claim would breach any other post-employment restrictions (including but not limited to any confidentiality obligations) you owe to a former employer; and 
              (c) 
    immediately notify Accenture where a former employer or third party alleges that you have breached any post employment or other restriction (including but not limited to any confidentiality obligations) you owe to that party and/or where you are aware of any circumstances in which such allegation can be made. 
     Competency to carry out duties 
           A5 
    It is a condition of your employment that you are and continue to be competent to properly carry out the duties of your position and that any representations as to your qualifications, skills, experience, industry knowledge, business influence,  
       Singapore                        5 

client contacts, and employment history made by you or a person on your behalf are true and correct. 
  
           B. 
    Performance of duties 
     Location of employment 
           B1 
    Your Accenture office location is in Singapore (  Location of Employment  )     or such other office of Accenture or any Affiliate or client as Accenture may require. 
     Requirement to work in other locations and for others 
           B2 
    Our business operates within an intensely competitive industry which is continuously evolving throughout the world.  To be successful in this environment, it is critical that we are able to dedicate people with the right skills to the right assignments.  At any time during the term of this Agreement, Accenture may at its discretion require you to travel, transfer or relocate away from your normal home location. Accenture may also require you to perform duties for Affiliates or Related Entities.  It is a fundamental condition of your employment that you make yourself available to travel, transfer, relocate and perform duties for Accenture, its Affiliates or, where applicable, Related Entities, on the basis set out above.  Certain costs associated with travel, transfer or relocation will be reimbursed in accordance with applicable travel and expense policies. 
     Assuming offices with Accenture and others 
           B3 
    Accenture may from time to time require you to assume or resign from offices, for example as a statutory director,  with Accenture, its Affiliates or, where applicable, Related Entities without further remuneration. 
     Flexibility requirements 
           B4 
    You are expected to perform a range of duties and also assume various responsibilities from time to time at the discretion of Accenture.  It is a key requirement of your role as a Global Management Committee member that you will remain flexible as to your function and duties during the course of your employment.  You cannot therefore assume that you will continue to perform a particular function or role on a permanent basis.  Accenture may change your function or role at any time, which may include an increase or decrease in your career level or level of responsibility under Accenture's Leadership Career Model or any other career model used by Accenture. 
     General responsibilities 
           B5 
    You will be a leader of Accenture s business and, as such, your general responsibilities will include: 
              (a) 
    managing and supervising the provision of services to Accenture s clients; 
              (b) 
    participating in the management and administration of Accenture, Accenture plc and any Affiliate to the extent required;  
       Singapore                        6 

(c) 
    participating in business development activities in your area of expertise and other areas of general importance to Accenture; and 
              (d) 
    maintaining the trust and confidence of other Accenture personnel and providing leadership to any employees of Accenture for whom you are responsible. 
     General duties 
           B6.1 
    Your general duties to Accenture include duties to: 
              (a) 
    comply with lawful directions of the board of Accenture (the   Board  ), its delegates or such other person or group which Accenture, Accenture plc or an Affiliate may nominate from time to time   these directions may take a number of forms including specific directions to you or a group of managing directors, and may also include the standing directions set out in Accenture s policies, directions, rules or regulations (as amended by Accenture from time to time), which can be found on the Accenture Policies website on the Portal including, without limitation, Accenture's Code of Business Ethics and the obligation to promote respect in the workplace, and Accenture's policies on Respect for the Individual (AP 85) Meritocracy (AP 78) and Reporting Unlawful or Unethical Activity and Prohibition against Retaliation (AP 301);  
              (b) 
    act in the best interests of Accenture, Accenture plc and its Affiliates at all times; 
              (c) 
    use your best endeavours to promote the business interests of Accenture, Accenture plc and its Affiliates at all times; 
              (d) 
    devote your full time, attention, and skill to the business and affairs of Accenture, Accenture plc and any Affiliate for which you are required to perform duties, and on an exclusive basis, provided that this does not prevent you from holding up to 5% of the securities in a company which is quoted on any recognised stock exchange; 
              (e) 
    refrain from directly or indirectly carrying on or being engaged, concerned or interested in any other business, trade or occupation without Accenture s or Accenture plc's written consent; 
              (f) 
    fully report to Accenture all business opportunities which may advantage Accenture, Accenture plc or any Affiliate and any significant threats to the business of Accenture, Accenture plc or any Affiliate as soon as they come to your attention; 
              (g) 
    fully and truthfully answer any questions asked by Accenture relating to your employment; and 
              (h) 
    comply with any performance standards or training requirements issued by Accenture, Accenture plc or its Affiliates from time to time and participate in all performance reviews. 
              B6.2 
    You acknowledge that you will act at all times in good faith and comply with the lawful instructions, regulations and policies of Accenture and use your best  
       Singapore                        7 

endeavours to promote the interests of Accenture and its Affiliates and Related Entities. 
  Conflicts of interest 
           B7.1 
    You must not undertake any activity (including unpaid work) which may either compromise or give rise to a potential or actual conflict with either your duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or the business interests of Accenture, Accenture plc or any Affiliate.  You must immediately and fully disclose in writing any potential or actual conflict of interest.  You must comply with any policies relating to conflicts of interest, insider trading, external directorships, dual employment, codes of business ethics or codes of conduct published by Accenture from time to time including, without limitation, Accenture's Policy on Family and Personal Working Relationships (AP 1100) and other codes or policies published on Accenture s policies website on the Portal, which may be amended from time to time. 
              B7.2 
    You confirm that you do not, at the time of entering into this Agreement, serve as an officer or director of any publicly traded company, or private company that engages in for-profit activities, or other company or organisation whose primary function is the lobbying of political causes or political advocacy, or any company or organisation where you are represented as a representative of such company or organisation, other than as permitted by Accenture's policy on Board Positions (AP 94). You have a continuing obligation to advise Accenture of any change to the confirmation given by way of this clause. 
              B7.3 
    You will inform Accenture immediately of any act or omission of yours which constitutes a breach of this Agreement, and any act or omission of any other employee, member of staff, client or supplier of which you become aware and which constitutes or might reasonably constitute a breach of the duties owed by that party including but not limited to breaches of Accenture's Code of Business Ethics or policies. 
     Requirement not to perform duties 
           B8 
    Accenture may at its discretion require you to refrain from performing some or all of your day-to-day responsibilities for any length of time on full pay if it regards it to be in its best interests to do so. 
     Change of title 
           B9 
    At any time during the term of this Agreement, Accenture may at its discretion change your title without affecting the other terms of this Agreement. 
       
  Reporting lines 
           B10 
    At any time during the term of this Agreement, Accenture may at its discretion change your reporting line or lines without affecting the terms of this Agreement. 
     
           C. 
    Conditions of employment 
     Hours of work 
           C1 
    The standard working week for Accenture Leadership is 40 hours per week Monday to Friday. You also agree to work additional hours, beyond the standard  
       Singapore                        8 

working week, which are reasonably necessary for you to properly fulfil your duties and responsibilities as a Global Management Committee member and in order to comply with Accenture s commitment to the highest standard of professional performance.  Your compensation represents payment for all those hours so worked. You agree that these hours are reasonable and that you will be available to work these hours.  
  Compensation and benefits 
           C2.1 
    Your compensation is set out in Annexure A (  Compensation Summary  ).  Your compensation may change from time to time at the discretion of Accenture.  Accenture policies on Global Management Committee member and/or Managing Director compensation may be reviewed by Accenture at its discretion at any time to suit its business needs.  You should not expect to receive the same compensation or benefits each financial year nor should you expect to receive commensurate or increased compensation or benefits. Your compensation will be subject to statutory deductions (including all applicable taxes). 
              C2.2 
    Where you contribute to the Central Provident Fund (  CPF  ), the amounts set out in the Compensation Summary shall include your contribution to the CPF in accordance with the   Central Provident Fund Act   (Cap. 36) (  CPF Act  ).  The amounts set out in the Compensation Summary do not include Accenture's employer contributions to the CPF. Accenture's contributions to the CPF shall be paid for by Accenture. 
              C2.3 
    Where you have not contributed to the CPF previously but subsequently are required to contribute to the CPF as required by Singapore Government legislation (such as when an employee becomes a Permanent Resident of Singapore), clause C2.2 will apply from the time when you are legally required to make contributions to the CPF. 
              C2.4 
    Where your compensation includes any bonus element, Accenture retains a sole, absolute and unfettered discretion as to whether or not to pay a bonus amount and, if a decision to pay a bonus amount is made, as to what the amount of the bonus will be.  You will not have any vested or accrued right to any bonus amount.  The terms of this paragraph will not be affected by any policy, program or practice of Accenture or any Affiliate and will not be affected by any other express or implied term.  In addition. All compensation, including bonus amounts, to be paid to you with respect to periods you are considered an  executive officer  of Accenture plc for purposes of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, under the United States federal securities laws, shall be awarded only with the approval of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Accenture plc or other applicable governing body (the   Compensation Committee  ), to be granted in its sole discretion.    
              C2.5 
    You agree that Accenture has the right at any time during your employment, or in any event on termination of your employment, to make deductions from your salary or other sums due to you in respect of all monies howsoever arising which are owed by you to Accenture and/or to any of Accenture's suppliers and/or to any benefits provider, (including but not limited to overpayment of salary or over-reimbursement of expenses, holiday taken in excess of your holiday entitlement, the cost of repairing/replacing damaged or lost property of Accenture caused by you, any expenses owing by you to Accenture, and any amounts owing by you in relation to any credit or charge card provided to you through Accenture). You  
       Singapore                        9 

agree to enter into any further agreement required to give effect to this clause in a particular instance.  
           C2.6  
    You agree that at all times you are personally responsible for compliance with all relevant taxation laws and for payment of personal taxes in Singapore and in any other relevant jurisdiction. As a member of the Global Management Committee, Accenture will pay for tax return preparation services, up to a maximum amount as specified in relevant policy. In addition, Accenture, at its sole and absolute discretion, will pay for reasonable tax consulting expenses for the purpose of responding to any inquiries from tax authorities.  
              C2.7 
    In addition to the foregoing, Accenture shall procure housing for you in Singapore, and shall pay the cost thereof on your behalf as part of your compensation in connection with relocation to Signapore.  You will be directly responsible for utility and related expenses and payment of income tax or other taxes in connection with this housing allowance. 
     Payment of salary  
           C3 
    Your salary for each calendar month will be paid by equal monthly instalments directly into a bank account nominated by you. Accenture may change the dates and timing of these instalments at its discretion.    
     Reimbursement of business expenses 
           C4 
    You will be reimbursed for business expenses properly incurred by you in the course of the performance of your duties as a Global Management Committee member, provided that: 
              (a) 
    you comply with any policy issued by Accenture relating to expense limits and expense reimbursements; and 
              (b) 
    you provide all expense statements, receipts or any other supporting documentation that Accenture may require.   
     Recovery of business expenses incorrectly reimbursed 
           C5  
    You agree to repay to Accenture on demand any amount incorrectly reimbursed to you and you consent to Accenture, at its election, setting-off the amount of any such reimbursement against the payment of future expenses to be reimbursed to you. 
     Holiday / vacation entitlement 
           C6 
    You will be entitled to vacation of 20 working days (accrued over time) during the year beginning 1 September each year (  Year  ).  Vacation accrual and treatment of unused vacation at the conclusion of the Year shall be in accordance with Accenture policies.  The accrual of vacation entitlement beyond 20 days, which includes public holidays, shall cease if you are absent from work for a period which exceeds 3 months. 
     Payment of vacation entitlement on termination 
           C7 
    Upon cessation of your employment, you will receive payment in respect of any vacation entitlement which has accrued but which has not been taken.  In the event that you have taken vacation in excess of your accrued entitlement, then  
       Singapore                        10 

the appropriate deduction will be made from remuneration or from other sums due to you as a result of your employment. 
  Public Holidays 
           C8 
    You are entitled to take the statutory public holidays of the Republic of Singapore without deduction from remuneration.  You may be required to work on a statutory public holiday without additional remuneration.   
     Parental leave  
           C9 
    You will receive parental leave in accordance with relevant legislation and Accenture policies after the birth or adoption of a child.   
     Sick leave and fitness for work 
           C10.1 
    In the event that you are unable to carry out your duties by reason of illness or injury, you may take sick leave in accordance with Accenture's policies as amended from time to time. 
              C10.2 
    You agree to submit to any reasonable request of Accenture to attend a medical assessment at Accenture's cost for the purposes of determining your fitness for work from time to time, and consent to the result of such assessment being disclosed to Accenture for such purpose.    
     Insurances 
           C11 
    In addition to your compensation, Accenture currently provides an insurance program.  Certain conditions or exclusions may apply.  Accenture's insurance program, including the types of insurance and the terms on which they are provided, may change from time to time or cease to exist.  You should review the terms of the relevant insurance policy and obtain legal advice before placing any reliance on coverage under any insurance policy.  You agree that Accenture makes no representations or warranties, express or implied, about coverage under any insurance policy.   
     Equity Ownership Guidelines 
           C12.1 
    You are also required to comply with Accenture's Equity Ownership requirements for the Global Management Committee, as set out in AP 1052. 
              C12.2 
    Accenture may change any minimum holding requirements set out in AP 1052 at any time. 
     
           D. 
    Working at Accenture 
     Policies, practices and programs 
           D1.1 
    Accenture, Accenture plc and its Affiliates have various policies, practices, programs, rules, regulations and directions in place from time to time which may impact on your employment. Some of these policies, practices, programs, rules, regulations and directions are referred to in this Agreement.  These policies, practices, programs, rules, regulations and directions constitute directions of Accenture and you are required to comply with them.  Failure to comply with such directions may lead to disciplinary action up to termination of employment.   
       Singapore                        11 

The policies, practices, programs, rules, regulations and directions of Accenture, Accenture plc and its Affiliates do not bind Accenture, Accenture plc or its Affiliates unless they expressly state otherwise.  They operate at the sole and absolute discretion of Accenture, Accenture plc and its Affiliates and no express or implied term operates to limit that discretion.  They may be cancelled, varied, or replaced by Accenture, Accenture plc or its Affiliates at any time without notice to you. 
           D1.2 
    You are required to comply with Accenture's policies on investment and share trading, including the policy on buying and selling securities (AP 1216), restricted persons trading (AP 0590), and personal investments (AP 0076).  Where applicable, you may  be notified of and required to comply with any policy a client may have regarding investments. You are also required to comply with Accenture's policies on contact with public officials (AP 1221) and business intermediaries (AP 1327). 
              D1.3 
    To the extent that this Agreement refers to policies, you acknowledge that you have been or will be provided with access to such policies, and you undertake to read these policies and any updates to these policies when notified.  
     Standards of conduct and behaviour 
           D2 
    You are required to comply with appropriate standards of conduct and behaviour at all times and to act in a manner which will not bring Accenture, Accenture plc or any Affiliate into disrepute. For the avoidance of doubt, this includes conduct outside of work. 
     Use of Accenture's facilities  
           D3.1 
    Accenture may provide you with access to certain facilities, including email and internet services, computer systems, mobile and landline telephone, and facsimile machines. These facilities are provided for business use and as a necessary part of its business, Accenture uses (or engages third parties to use) various forms of surveillance technology at each of its premises, and in respect of its property, equipment and computer systems. At all times and for all purposes associated with Accenture's business, you agree that Accenture (or other persons authorised by Accenture, including internal and external auditors) may access or monitor the use of Accenture's computers, communication or network connected devices, printers, email and network services, internet connections, computer systems, computer logs and other electronic records, databases, backups, as well as any employee owned equipment used to conduct Accenture's business during the course of your employment. 
     These purposes include, but are not limited to the following purposes: 
           (a) 
    to prevent, investigate or detect unauthorised use of Accenture s devices and technology including to monitor compliance with the  Acceptable Uses  described in Accenture s Acceptable Use of Information, Devices and Technology Policy (AP 57) on Accenture s policies website on the Portal; 
              (b) 
    to prevent or detect the commission or possible commission of a criminal offence, alleged gross misconduct, gross negligence or breach of any Accenture policy; 
       Singapore                        12 

(c) 
    to detect any instance of illegal, and /or unlicensed software installations; 
              (d) 
    to ensure that Accenture s systems are operating effectively and to perform disaster recovery activities or otherwise locate or retrieve data;  
              (e) 
    to compile a complete inventory of devices and technology; 
              (f) 
    to comply with law or with a court order or demand from any regulatory or other competent body; 
              (g) 
    to safeguard the environment in which users carry out their responsibilities, and to protect users  own interests and those of Accenture, any Affiliate s, any Alliance Entities and/or their customers;  
              (h) 
    for quality control or training purposes; 
              (i) 
    to maintain business continuity in the event of an employee s absence or termination; 
              (j) 
    to detect the risk of inadvertent loss of Accenture Personal Data or Third Party Data (as defined in clause D4.2), Accenture s or any Affiliate s or any Alliance Entity's or any of their client s intellectual property or Confidential Information (as defined in clause G5.3) or other sensitive information;   
              (k) 
    in case of reasonable suspicion to  investigate and address illegal or wrongful behaviour by you or any other employee of Accenture or any Affiliate or any Alliance Entity; and 
              (l) 
    to manage or terminate an employment relationship with you. 
     Although auditing and inspection of surveillance data may only occur on an intermittent basis, monitoring activities are continuous and ongoing. 
           D3.2 
    Any data or records collected, created or obtained by Accenture as part of any workplace, equipment and system surveillance may be: 
              (a) 
    used or disclosed by Accenture or its authorised representatives for any purpose stated above at clause D3.1 and any purpose relating to or arising out of the conduct of its business, including, without limitation, any investigation, disciplinary process, claim, defence or any other dispute or litigation process; and 
              (b) 
    provided to third parties, including any contractors of Accenture, regulatory authority, or the police where required or permitted by applicable law. 
              D3.3 
    You acknowledge that you will comply with Accenture's Acceptable Use of Information, Devices and Technology Policy (AP 57) on Accenture s policies website on the Portal, which Accenture may change from time to time.  In the event that there is any inconsistency between the terms of the policy and the terms of this Agreement, the latter will prevail. You must not use the facilities to access, download, copy, circulate, distribute, send, receive or otherwise communicate inappropriate or unlawful material, including but not limited to: 
       Singapore                        13 

(a) 
    hateful or abusive material; 
              (b) 
    defamatory material; 
              (c) 
    offensive material;  
              (d) 
    material which would offend anti-discrimination and/or harassment laws;  
              (e) 
    material, the copying or dissemination of which would amount to a breach of copyright or other intellectual property laws; or 
              (f) 
    pornography, 
     and you must actively discourage anyone else from sending you this type of material. 
  Data protection 
           D4.1 
    You must comply with Accenture's data privacy policies including AP 90 (the   Policy  ) a copy of which is available on the Accenture policies website.     
               (a) 
    Personal Data   means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person; an identifiable person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identification number or to one or more factors specific to his physical, physiological, mental, economic, cultural or social identity;  
              (b) 
    Personal Data includes both   Accenture Personal Data   (any personal data controlled by Accenture, any Affiliate or Related Entity, that is held and processed by Accenture for its own business purposes) and   Third Party Data   (any personal data controlled by a client, supplier or other third party that is held and processed by Accenture); and 
              (c) 
    references to information  relating to you  or  about you  include references to information about third parties such as your spouse and children (if any) which you provide to Accenture on their behalf. 
              D4.3 
    You must not access, use, disclose or retain Personal Data held in connection with any client or fellow employee except in the proper and lawful performance of your job role pursuant to the provisions of the Policy and in accordance with all legal requirements.  Any infringement may result in disciplinary action. 
              D4.4 
    You acknowledge that you have read the Policy and you consent to the collection, use, disclosure and processing of Personal Data relating to you in accordance with the Policy and Accenture s normal business practices as listed in the Policy. In particular, you consent to: 
              (a) 
    the part of the Policy which deals with the processing of sensitive information about you, to the limited extent necessary for legitimate business purposes and permitted by applicable law; 
              (b) 
    the transfer worldwide of Personal Data, including sensitive information, held about you by Accenture to other employees and offices of  
       Singapore                        14 

Accenture s worldwide organisation for the purposes listed in the Policy and to third parties where disclosure to such third parties is required in the normal course of business, and for the purposes, described in the policy; and 
           (c) 
    the posting of any photographs (and ancillary information which you have provided) on any Accenture web-site or office directory for the purpose of making your personal profile accessible to Accenture s employees and clients and other contacts, and you consent to the information and photograph being used for security identification (with a spare copy of your photograph stored in case you lose your security pass), acknowledging that this may involve the transfer of the information and photograph to any country in the world in the context of the normal course of business of Accenture. 
     
           E. 
    Business Protection 
     Confidentiality 
           E1.1 
    You must not make use of, divulge or communicate to any person, company, business entity or other organisation (except in the proper performance of your duties of employment or otherwise with proper authority) any of the trade secrets or other Confidential Information of, or relating to, the business and finance affairs of Accenture or any Affiliate or Alliance Entity or any of their clients or suppliers.   
              E1.2 
    You must also use your best endeavours to prevent the unauthorised use, copying or disclosure of Confidential Information (as that term is defined in clause G5.3 below) by third parties or other colleagues.  If you suspect any misuse or loss of Confidential Information, you must immediately notify Legal and Global Asset Protection (ASOC hotline) and assist Accenture or any Affiliate or any Related Entity in any investigation and/or proceedings taken by Accenture or any Affiliate or any Related Entity for alleged loss or misuse.   
              E1.3 
    The obligation of confidentiality will continue to apply without limit of time after the termination (for whatever reason) of your employment, but does not apply to any disclosures required by law or to any information or documents which are in the public domain (other than by way of an unauthorised disclosure).  From time to time during your employment, in limited circumstances, as a condition to working on a particular client engagement or business opportunity with which Accenture, an Affiliate or a Related Entity is involved, you may be required to enter into a specific non-disclosure agreement regarding Confidential Information pertaining to such engagement or opportunity. 
              E1.4 
    You agree that any breach of the clauses above may not adequately be compensated by an award of damages and any breach will entitle Accenture, in addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity, to seek an injunction to restrain you from committing any breach (or continuing to commit any breach). 
              E1.5 
    You acknowledge that you will comply with Accenture's Confidentiality Policy (AP 69) Data Privacy Policy (AP 90) and Data Management Policy (AP 1431)  
       Singapore                        15 

on Accenture's policies website on the Portal, and that you will comply with the obligations set out therein, which may be amended from time to time.  
  Ownership of intellectual property 
           E2.1 
    You acknowledge that it is the intention of both parties that all Employment IPRs, Employment Inventions and all materials embodying them will belong to Accenture. The following clauses set out the mechanism by which this will be achieved. The terms "Employment IPRs", "Employment Inventions", "Inventions" and "Intellectual Property Rights" are all defined in clause G5.3 below. 
              E2.2 
    All Employment IPRs, Employment Inventions and all materials embodying them shall automatically belong to Accenture to the fullest extent permitted by law. To the extent that they do not vest in Accenture automatically, you hold them in trust for Accenture. 
              E2.3 
    To the extent that legal title in any Employment IPRs or Employment Inventions does not vest in Accenture by virtue of clauses E2.1 and E2.2 above, you agree that, immediately upon creation, such Employment IPRs and Employment Inventions will be assigned to Accenture by way of future assignment to the fullest extent permitted by law.   
              E2.4 
    To the extent that legal title in any Employment IPRs or Employment Inventions does not vest in Accenture by virtue of clause E2.2 or cannot be assigned to Accenture by virtue of clause E2.3, you agree, immediately on creation of such rights and Inventions, to offer to Accenture in writing a right of first refusal to acquire them on arm's length terms to be agreed between the parties. If the parties cannot agree on such terms within 30 days of Accenture receiving the offer, the dispute shall be determined by the appointment of a single expert to be agreed between the parties. The expert's decisions shall be final and binding on the parties in the absence of manifest error, and the costs of arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties. The parties will be entitled to make submissions to the expert and will provide (or procure that others provide) the expert with such assistance and documents as the expert reasonably requires for the purpose of reaching a decision.  You agree that the provisions of this clause E2 shall apply to all Employment IPRs and Employment Inventions offered to Accenture under this clause E2 until such time as Accenture has agreed in writing that you may offer them for sale to a third party. 
              E2.5 
    You acknowledge that, because of the nature of your duties and the particular responsibilities arising from the nature of your duties, you have, and shall have at all times while you are employed by Accenture, a special obligation to further the interests of Accenture. 
               (a) 
    to give to Accenture full written details of all Employment Inventions promptly on their creation; 
              (b) 
    at Accenture's request and in any event on the termination of your employment to give to Accenture all originals and copies of correspondence, documents, papers and records on all media which record or relate to any of the Employment IPRs or Employment Inventions; 
       Singapore                        16 

(c) 
    not to attempt to register any Employment IPR or patent any Employment Invention unless requested to do so by Accenture;  
              (d) 
    not to transfer, license or assign, any Employment IPRs or Employment Inventions to any third party nor purport or attempt to do the same; 
              (e) 
    not to contest Accenture's or an Affiliate's exclusive, complete and unrestricted ownership in and to the Employment IPRs, Employment Inventions and/or any Intellectual Property Rights therein, nor claim any adverse rights therein; and 
              (f) 
    to keep confidential each Employment Invention unless Accenture has consented in writing to its disclosure by you. 
              E2.7 
    You waive all your present and future moral rights which arise under applicable laws, and all similar rights in other jurisdictions relating to any copyright which forms part of the Employment IPRs, and agree not to support, maintain or permit any claim for infringement of moral rights in such copyright works. 
              E2.8 
    You acknowledge that, except as provided by law, no further remuneration or compensation other than that provided for in the Agreement is or may become due to you in respect of your compliance with this clause E2. This clause E2 is without prejudice to your rights under applicable laws. 
              E2.9 
    You undertake to use your best endeavours to execute all documents and do all acts both during and after your employment by Accenture as may, in the opinion of Accenture, be necessary or desirable to vest the Employment IPRs in Accenture, to register them in the name of Accenture and to protect and maintain the Employment IPRs and the Employment Inventions. Such documents may, at Accenture's request, include waivers of all and any statutory moral rights relating to any copyright works which form part of the Employment IPRs. Accenture agrees to reimburse your reasonable expenses of complying with this clause E2.9. 
              E2.10 
    You agree to give all necessary assistance to Accenture to enable it to enforce its Intellectual Property Rights against third parties, to defend claims for infringement of third party Intellectual Property Rights and to apply for registration of Intellectual Property Rights, where appropriate throughout the world, and for the full term of those rights. 
              E2.11 
    You hereby irrevocably appoint Accenture to be your attorney in your name and on your behalf to execute documents, use your name and do all things which are necessary or desirable for Accenture to obtain for itself or its nominee the full benefit of this clause E2. You acknowledge that a certificate in writing, signed by any director or the secretary of Accenture, that any instrument or act falls within the authority conferred by this Agreement shall be conclusive evidence that such is the case so far as any third party is concerned. You will, upon request by Accenture, execute any further document required to give a power of attorney for the purposes of any applicable law, in order to give effect to this clause E2.11. 
               (a) 
    not infringe any Intellectual Property Rights belonging to Accenture or any Affiliate or any Related Entity or their clients or suppliers;  
       Singapore                        17 

(b) 
    not use any Intellectual Property Rights belonging to third parties in the course of creating any work product for or on behalf of Accenture or any Affiliate (  Work Product  ), without having first procured a licence to use such Intellectual Property Rights on terms acceptable to Accenture.  To the extent that you use, or otherwise incorporate, in any Work Product, any Intellectual Property Rights owned by you, you hereby grant to Accenture a worldwide, perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free, sub-licensable and assignable licence to use such Intellectual Property Rights; and 
              (c) 
    disclose to Accenture in writing prior to the Commencement Date, all details pertaining to any Intellectual Property Rights owned by you or Inventions created, invented, designed, developed, contributed to or improved by you prior to your employment by, or appointment to your status as a Managing Director of Accenture, that are relevant to or implicated by such employment or status (  Prior Works  ). If this clause E2 is suspended for any period of time ( Suspended Period ), you agree that any Intellectual Property Rights or Inventions created during such Suspended Period shall be considered Prior Works for purposes of this Agreement.  For the avoidance of doubt, you acknowledge that this clause E2.12(c) does not require you to disclose any proprietary information, Intellectual Property Rights, Confidential Information or trade secrets of any former employer or other third parties. 
              E2.13 
    The provisions of this clause E2 shall survive after the expiry or termination of your employment for any reason. 
     E2.14 Nothing in this Agreement is intended to or should be interpreted as diminishing any rights and remedies Accenture or any Affiliate has under any applicable law in relation to the protection of Intellectual Property Rights or Inventions.  
  Post-employment restrictions 
           E3.1 
    You must comply with the post-employment restrictions which are set out in Annexure B to this Agreement (  Post  -  Employment Restrictions  ). 
              E3.2 
    You acknowledge that the compensation package set out in Annexure A incorporates consideration for the Post-Employment Restrictions. 
              E3.3 
    You acknowledge that, during your employment, you: 
              (a) 
    have or will become possessed of Confidential Information regarding the business of Accenture, Accenture plc, the Affiliates, the Related Entities and their clients, and customers; and/or 
              (b) 
    have developed or will develop influence over the clients, customers, employees, contractors and suppliers of Accenture, Accenture plc and its Affiliates, and where applicable Related Entities, 
     and agree that the Post-Employment Restrictions are reasonable and necessary for the protection of the business of Accenture. 
    Singapore                        18 

Authority 
           E4.1 
    You are not authorised to enter into any contract or similar commitment or to sign any document in the name of or on behalf of Accenture, Accenture plc or any Affiliate and are excluded from doing so unless authorised to do so by the Board or the relevant board of directors of Accenture plc or any Affiliate or any nominee or designee of that board.  
              E4.2 
    Unless authorised in accordance with the previous clause, you agree that the designation  Global Management Committee member  or any other title approved by Accenture, Accenture plc or any Affiliate for use by you does not confer on you any authority to bind Accenture, Accenture plc or any Affiliate and you will not make any representations (express or implied) to third parties that you have such authority.  
     
           F. 
    Termination of Employment 
     Immediate termination by Accenture  
           F1 
    Accenture may immediately terminate your employment     by notice to you in writing if you at any time: 
              (a) 
    commit any serious or persistent breach of this Agreement or engage in gross misconduct including, without limitation, intentional disobedience, inappropriate conduct or behaviour, dishonesty, serious or persistent breach of duty or serious or persistent neglect; 
              (b) 
    materially breach this Agreement, and, where this breach is capable of being remedied, you do not remedy the breach within five days after receiving notice from Accenture specifying the breach; 
              (c) 
    commit an act of bankruptcy, are declared bankrupt or enter into any composition or arrangement with or make any assignment of your property in favour of your creditors generally; or 
              (d) 
    commit a crime or other civil wrong, which, in the opinion of Accenture, will detrimentally affect the business or reputation of Accenture or any Affiliate or will materially undermine your ability to properly perform your duties. 
     Payments on immediate termination  
           F2 
    If your employment is terminated under clause F1, Accenture will not be obliged to provide to you any benefits other than the following: 
              (a) 
    any accrued salary to which you are entitled on the date of termination; and 
              (b) 
    any amount to which you are entitled under legislation in respect of leave. 
     Termination on notice by Accenture 
           F3 
    Subject to clause F5 below, Accenture may terminate your employment by giving you 4 months' notice. This right will not be affected or limited by any policy or practice adopted by Accenture at any time.  
       Singapore                        19 

Resignation 
           F4 
    You may at any time and for any reason resign by giving 4 months' written notice to Accenture. 
       Singapore                        20 

Payment in lieu of notice 
           F5 
    Accenture may in its discretion pay you the equivalent amount of base compensation in lieu of all or part of any notice period relating to the termination of your employment under this Agreement.  
     Work arrangements during notice period 
           F6.1 
    Where you are required to work out a period of notice under this clause F, Accenture may direct you during some or all of the notice period: 
              (a) 
    not to attend the offices of Accenture; 
              (b) 
    not to contact or have any Communication with the clients of Accenture, any Affiliate or Alliance Entity; 
              (c) 
    not to contact or have any Communication with any employee, contractor, consultant, or officer of Accenture, Accenture plc or any Affiliate or Alliance Entity in relation to the business of Accenture or the Affiliate or Alliance Entity; 
              (d) 
    not to perform the duties of your position or become involved in any aspect of the business of Accenture, Accenture plc or any Affiliate or Alliance Entity; 
              (e) 
    to perform the duties of your position from home;  
              (f) 
    to assist Accenture to arrange a proper handover of your duties and responsibilities (including clients and businesses) to another employee of Accenture; or 
              (g) 
    to do or not do any combination of the above.  
     Communication   in this clause will be taken to include communication in person, by telephone, text message, email or other electronic communication, including automatically generated "updates" to contacts via social networking or social media sites. 
  You agree that, either at the start or during your period of notice, Accenture may terminate your access to any of Accenture's IT or other communication systems.  
  During any such period, you will continue to receive your full pay under this Agreement and at Accenture's discretion, any benefits provided to you.  
           F6.2 
    During your notice period all other terms of your employment will continue including, without limitation, your obligations of good faith, fidelity, confidentiality, your fiduciary duties and all of your express and implied obligations. 
              F6.3 
    You agree that any breach of the clauses above may not adequately be compensated by an award of damages and any breach will entitle Accenture, in addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity, to seek an injunction to restrain you from committing any breach (or continuing to commit any breach). 
              F6.4 
    If requested by Accenture, you must also keep Accenture informed of your whereabouts so that you can be called upon to perform any appropriate duties as required by Accenture. 
       Singapore                        21 

Commencing work with a third party 
           F7 
    If you give Accenture notice of termination for the purpose of commencing work with a third party, you must: 
              (a) 
    immediately upon giving notice disclose full details of this purpose so as to enable Accenture to take steps to protect its business and to arrange the proper hand over of your duties (including clients or customers and business) to another employee;  
              (b) 
    comply with any directions given by Accenture for the purpose of giving effect to (a) above; and 
              (c) 
    provide a copy of the restrictions in Annexure B to such third party at the time of giving notice to Accenture. 
     The obligation set out in this clause is not intended to detract from your general obligation to immediately disclose any conflict of interest to Accenture. 
  Resignation from offices and payment of debts 
           F8 
    On termination however arising, on the commencement of notice pursuant to clause F6.1, or at any time on request, you must:  
              (a) 
    at the request of the Board immediately resign any directorship or office you may hold by virtue of your employment and in the event of your failure to do so, Accenture is irrevocably authorised to appoint some person in your name to sign and deliver that resignation(s) to the Board; and 
              (b) 
    immediately return all Accenture credit and debit cards, repay all outstanding debts and loans due to Accenture, Accenture plc or any Affiliate and Accenture is authorised to deduct from any monies due to you, other than salary, a sum in repayment of all or any part of any such debts or loans. 
     Suitable alternative employment 
           F9.1 
    If, prior to or upon terminating your employment under this Agreement, Accenture or any Affiliate offers you or procures an offer for you of suitable alternative employment and you either accept this offer or reject this offer, you will not be entitled to any notice of termination or any compensation for the same (including a payment in lieu of notice) or any other termination or severance payment, except for statutory leave entitlements.  
              F9.2 
    For the avoidance of any doubt, suitable alternative employment will include (but is not limited to) employment on terms which are not less favourable in aggregate than those set out in this Agreement and the position offered may require you to be based in a location other than your home location. 
     Return of Accenture property, Confidential Information, etc 
           F10.1 
    On termination of your employment howsoever arising, or on the commencement of notice pursuant to clause F6.1, or at any time on request, you must immediately: 
       Singapore                        22 

(a) 
    return to Accenture, Accenture plc and its Affiliates and Alliance Entities all of their property, documents and Confidential Information in your possession or control, which include (without limitation) all correspondence, emails, documents (whether in hard copy or electronic form), computer disks, CD-Roms, computer files, mobile telephones, laptop computers, and office keys or security passes (  Company Property  ), and you will not make any copies or extracts of these items; 
              (b) 
    permanently destroy or otherwise delete all information or data belonging to, or relating to Accenture, or an Affiliate, or a client, or a supplier, or an Alliance Entity, or any of their employees, which is recorded in any other property, medium or format in your possession, custody or control unless you have been issued with a Hold Notice (as that term is defined in clause G5.3 below), in which case, you should retain the relevant information and inform Accenture promptly of such Hold Notice in accordance with (c) below; 
              (c)   
    inform Accenture if you have been asked to preserve any documentation or information pursuant to a Hold Notice. 
     Within 7 days of the date of termination of your employment or a request by Accenture, you shall certify in writing to Accenture (in such format and manner as Accenture may require) that you have fully complied with your obligations in clauses F10.1(a) to (c) above. 
  A failure to return Company Property will entitle Accenture to withhold the whole or any part of any salary or other sums due to you up to the replacement value of the property not returned.  You also agree that any breach of the clauses F10.1(a) to (c) may not adequately be compensated by an award of damages and any breach will entitle Accenture, in addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity, to seek an injunction to restrain you from committing any breach (or continuing to commit any breach). 
           F10.2 
    On termination of your employment, or on the commencement of notice pursuant to clause F6.1 above, or at any time at Accenture's request, you must: 
              1. 
    hand over any information, files or deliverables containing Accenture Personal Data and Third Party Data (as those terms are defined in clause D4.2 above) or, at Accenture's direction, upload those documents to a sharepoint;  
              2. 
    remove any personal data or any private communications or information relating to you and your spouse/partner and dependents from the items to be returned (i.e. Accenture mobiles, laptops, data sticks etc.) and to the extent that you do not remove such information, you agree that Accenture or any Affiliate or any Related Entity may use such information for its legitimate business purposes (including without limitation for investigations, litigation and business continuity) and in accordance with applicable data privacy laws; and 
              3. 
    not retain or copy any Accenture Personal Data or Third Party Data. 
              F10.3 
    After your employment, you must: 
       Singapore                        23 

(a) 
    not represent yourself as having any on-going relationship with Accenture or any Affiliate or Related Entity; 
              (b) 
    subject to clause F6.1(b) above, update your social media profiles (for example, Linkedin) and any other online presence to show cessation of employment and affiliation with Accenture, and remove any links to external Accenture sites or commentary; 
              (c) 
    not make or cause to be made (whether directly or indirectly) any derogatory comments or statements about Accenture or any Affiliate or Related Entity or its or their respective officers or employees, and 
              (d) 
    not make, or cause to be made (directly or indirectly), any statement or comment to the press or other media concerning your employment with Accenture, or its termination, or your resignation from any directorships or other offices with Accenture or any Affiliate or Related Entity without Accenture's prior written consent. 
     
           G. 
    General Provisions 
     Entire agreement 
           G1.1 
    This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement relating to your employment and supersedes all prior agreements, offers and representations whether oral or in writing, in relation to your employment. You acknowledge that by entering into this Agreement you have not relied on any representations or warranties (express or implied) about its subject matter, except as provided in this Agreement.     
              G1.2 
    This Agreement must be read together with any applicable laws in your Location of Employment. Applicable laws will prevail to the extent of any inconsistency, and you must comply with any relevant and applicable laws as in force and as amended from time to time. However, nothing in this Agreement incorporates such laws. 
     Enforcement 
           G2 
    You agree that any breach of this Agreement may not adequately be compensated by an award of damages and any breach will entitle Accenture, in addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity, to seek an injunction to restrain you from committing any breach (or continuing to commit any breach).   
     Invalid or unenforceable provisions 
  G3    If a provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable in a jurisdiction: 
           (a) 
    it is to be read down or severed in that jurisdiction to the extent of the invalidity or unenforceability; and 
              (b) 
    that fact does not affect the validity or enforceability of that provision in another jurisdiction or the remaining provisions.  
     Governing law  
    Singapore                        24 

G4 
    This Agreement is governed by and shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Singapore and the parties submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Singapore courts. 
       Singapore                        25 

Interpretation 
           G5.1 
    References to Accenture in this Agreement include reference to its successors and assigns. 
              G5.2 
    References to laws, policies, rules, regulations or guidelines in this Agreement shall be taken to include references to any subsequent changes to the same, or further or replacement laws, policies, rules, regulations or guidelines relating to the same subject matter.  
              G5.3 
    Terms are defined in the body of this Agreement, or as otherwise set out below, unless the context requires otherwise:  
              (a) 
    Accenture Competitor     means any business which provides products, services or advice which are or is similar to the products, services or advice provided by Accenture or any Affiliate, including, but not limited to, the entities identified in clause 10 of Annexure B or in any other document (whether published on the Accenture Leadership Matters Data Base or otherwise) which is notified by Accenture or any Affiliate to you as replacing such list from time to time. 
              (b) 
    Affiliate   means any entity, whether incorporated or not, that is Controlled by or under common Control with Accenture plc, a company incorporated in Ireland (or any successor thereto). 
              (c) 
    Agreement   means this agreement and its annexures and schedules. 
              (d) 
    Alliance Entity     means any Legal Entity (including a Related Body Corporate of such Legal Entity), with whom Accenture and/or any Affiliate has entered into an alliance agreement, joint venture agreement or any other legally binding go-to-market agreement, resale agreement or any agreement to combine offerings, products and/or services, or (without limiting the foregoing) any Legal Entity in which Accenture and/or any Affiliate has an interest, whether or not a Controlling interest; provided always that the term "Alliance Entity" shall not include: (i) any Accenture Competitor, (ii) any contractor and/or sub-contractor of Accenture and/or any Affiliate, and/or (iii) any sales, buying and/or marketing agent of Accenture and/or any Affiliate. 
              (e) 
    Confidential Information   includes (but is not limited to) the following in relation to Accenture, any Affiliate, Related Entity or Alliance Entity or otherwise as the context requires: 
              (i) 
    lists and databases of clients, including names of such clients; 
              (ii) 
    lists and databases of prospective clients whom Accenture or any Affiliate has taken material steps to win business from, including names of such prospective clients; 
              (iii) 
    confidential details of Accenture's and Affiliates' or any of their clients' or suppliers' products and services; 
              (iv) 
    commercial or technical information or any other Knowledge Capital;  
              (v) 
    financial information and plans; 
       Singapore                        26 

(vi) 
    prices / pricing structures / hourly rates, including any discounts, terms of credit and preferential terms; 
              (vii) 
    lists and databases of suppliers; 
              (viii) 
    any Personal Data (as defined in clause D4.2) belonging to Accenture or any Affiliate or any client or business associate, affiliate or employee or contractor of Accenture or its Affiliates; 
              (ix) 
    terms of business with clients, suppliers and Alliance Entities;  
              (x) 
    lists and databases of employees, officers and contractors;  
              (xi) 
    details of employees, officers and contractors, including but not limited to their remuneration packages and terms of employment / engagement; 
              (xii) 
    object or source codes and computer software; 
              (xiii) 
    any proposals relating to the acquisition or disposal of a company or business or any part thereof; 
              (xiv) 
    details of responses by Accenture or any Affiliate to any request for proposal or tender for work (whether competitive or not), and of any contract negotiations;  
              (xv) 
    Intellectual Property Rights or Inventions owned or developed by or licensed to Accenture or its Affiliates or any of their clients or suppliers; 
              (xvi) 
    any document marked as "confidential" (or with a similar expression), or any information or document which you have been told is confidential or which you might reasonably expect Accenture or an Affiliate or client or supplier or the relevant discloser would regard as confidential; 
              (xvii) 
    any information which has been given to Accenture or any Affiliate in confidence by clients, suppliers or other third parties;  
              (xviii) 
    any of the foregoing which belongs, or which otherwise relates, to any past or present Alliance Entity or to any Legal Entity that Accenture or any Affiliate intends to make an Alliance Entity;  
              (ixx) 
    any business or strategic plans of Accenture or its Affiliates or any of their clients or suppliers; and  
              (xx) 
    details of any agreement, arrangement or otherwise (whether formal or informal) that Accenture, or any Affiliate, has entered into with any Alliance Entity. 
              (f) 
    Control   (or variants of it) means the ability whether directly or indirectly to direct the affairs of another by means of ownership, contract or otherwise. 
              (g) 
    Employment IPRs   means Intellectual Property Rights created by you in the course of your employment with Accenture (whether or not during working hours or using Accenture premises or resources). 
       Singapore                        27 

(h) 
    Employment Inventions   means any Invention which is made wholly or partially by you at any time during the course of your employment with Accenture (whether or not during working hours or using Accenture premises or resources, and whether or not recorded in material form). 
              (i) 
    Group   means Accenture, Accenture plc and the Affiliates. 
              (j) 
    Hold Notice   means a directive issued by Accenture's internal or legal advisors to certain employees to preserve special categories of documents and other information in connection with reasonably anticipated or actual litigation, or for other legal and/or regulatory reasons. 
              (k)   
    Intellectual Property Rights   means patents, rights to Employment Inventions, copyright and related rights, trade marks, trade names and domain names, rights in get-up, goodwill and the right to sue for passing off, unfair competition rights, rights in designs, rights in computer software, database rights, topography rights, rights to use and preserve the confidentiality of information (including know-how and trade secrets) and any other intellectual property rights, in each case whether registered or unregistered and including all applications (or rights to apply for and be granted), renewals or extensions of, and rights to claim priority from, such rights and all similar or equivalent rights or forms of protection which subsist or will subsist now or in the future in any part of the world, and shall include all right, title, and interest in any of the foregoing rights including all materials contained therein or prepared therefrom. 
              (l) 
    Invention   means any invention, idea, discovery, development, improvement or innovation, whether or not patentable or capable of registration, and whether or not recorded in any medium. 
              (m) 
    Knowledge Capital   means any reports, documents, templates, studies, software programs, delivery methods, specifications, business methods, tools, methodologies, inventions, processes, techniques, analytical frameworks, algorithms, know how and/or any other work product and materials, proprietary to Accenture and/or any Affiliate which is used, by Accenture and/or Affiliate, to perform services for its or their clients. 
              (n) 
    Legal Entity   means any body corporate, branch partnership, joint venture or unincorporated association or other organisation carrying on a trade or other activity with or without a view to profit. 
              (o) 
    Portal   means the Accenture policies website. 
              (p) 
    Related Body Corporate   means a company which is a: 
              (i) 
    holding company of another body corporate; or 
              (ii) 
    subsidiary of another body corporate; or  
              (iii) 
    subsidiary of a holding company of another body corporate. 
              (q) 
    Related Entity   means any Legal Entity with whom Accenture and/or any Affiliate has entered into a joint venture agreement or any Legal Entity in which Accenture and/or any Affiliate has an interest, whether or not a Controlling interest; provided always that the term "Related Entity" shall  
       Singapore                        28 

not include: (i) any Accenture Competitor, (ii) any contractor and/or sub-contractor of Accenture and/or any Affiliate, and/or (iii) any sales, buying and/or marketing agent of Accenture and/or any Affiliate.  
  Exercise of discretion 
           G6 
    Where Accenture is given a discretion with respect to your employment (whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise), that discretion will at all times be a sole absolute and unfettered discretion and will not be affected in any way by any express or implied term.  
     Variation of this Agreement 
           G7 
    This Agreement may not be varied unless agreed expressly in writing by the parties. 
     Understanding of Agreement 
           G8 
    You acknowledge that you have had sufficient time to review the contents of this Agreement and receive legal advice, and that you fully understand the contents of this Agreement. 

Executed as an Agreement 
    
  Signed on behalf of Accenture by: 

_____________________________________________________ 
  TEO LAY LIM 
  Country Managing Director 

Signed by employee: 

____________________________________________________ 
  Print name: 
    Singapore                        29 

Date Signed:_________________________________________ 
    Singapore                        30 

Annexure A 
  Compensation Summary 
  
  Compensation Summary for [_____Name_____] 
  Please note that, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, this compensation may change from time to time at the sole, absolute and unfettered discretion of Accenture.   
  Where this compensation summary refers to any bonus, Accenture retains a sole, absolute and unfettered discretion as to whether or not to pay that bonus and, if a decision to pay a bonus is made, as to what the amount of the bonus will be.  You will not have any vested or accrued right to any bonus amount.  This will not be affected by any policy, program or practice of Accenture or any Affiliate and will not be affected by any express or implied term. 
  The compensation set out in this compensation summary is subject to all taxes arising out of relevant taxation laws. 
           1. 
    Career Level 
     Your Career Level upon appointment is Member of the Global Management Committee.   
           2. 
    Cash Compensation 
              2.1. 
    Annual Base Compensation 
     Your Annual Base Compensation will be [________________] less relevant statutory deductions. 
   You will be eligible to participate in Accenture's Global Annual Bonus Program as in place and as amended from time to time. Subject always to the rules of the Program, Accenture determines payouts based on individual performance as well as overall company performance, and the Compensation Committee has the authority to approve all payments under this program to members of the Global Management Committee.    
  As a guide (and where the relevant Program terms and conditions will always prevail), to be eligible for Global Annual Bonus, you must be employed on August 31 (the last day of the fiscal year for which the bonus is declared).   
  Any Global Annual Bonus will be paid out at the end of the calendar year (i.e. after December 1, in any given year) once your performance rating and company performance for the fiscal year are known.  The Compensation Committee has the authority to establish final payout amounts after evaluating the achievement of the earnings objectives and factors contributing to their achievement, as well as individual performance.   
           3. 
    Global Management Committee Equity Programs 
     Equity compensation is an important part of Global Management Committee member total rewards. All equity programs are subject to the terms and conditions of Accenture' plcs policies, plans and programs, as amended from time to time. Accenture plc retains a sole, absolute and unfettered discretion to vary these plans, programs and policies at any time. All equity awards made to  
    Singapore                        31 

members of the Global Management Committee are subject to the review and approval of the Compensation Committee. 
    Singapore                        32 

Annexure B 
  Post-Employment Restrictions 
  
  Definitions 
           1. 
    In addition to the definitions already used in this Agreement, the following definitions apply to this Annexure unless the context requires otherwise: 
     Associated Person   means any representative, joint venture partner, or Related Body Corporate of a Competitive Enterprise, Client or Prospective Client.  
  Client   means any Person for or to whom:  
           (a) 
    any Group Member provides services or advice; 
              (b) 
    any Group Member or its predecessor has provided services or advice at any time within the 12 month period prior to the Termination Date, 
     provided that a Person will not constitute a   Client   unless: 
           (i) 
    you have had material contact or dealings with that Person at any time during the 12 months prior to the Termination Date; 
              (ii) 
    you have developed a direct or indirect influence over that Person as a result of your employment or your association with any Group Member; or 
              (iii) 
    you have gained access to Confidential Information or sensitive business information during the course of your employment which may assist you in obtaining orders, custom or business from that Person. 
     Competitive Enterprise   means a Person (including yourself) that engages in, or owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in, the practice of supplying any products or services of the type: 
           (a) 
    which a Group Member was supplying, marketing or developing at or in the 12 months prior to the Termination Date; and 
              (b) 
    which you performed or had any material involvement in during the period of 12 months prior to the Termination Date, 
     and includes the entities referred to in clause 10 together with such other entities as Accenture may on reasonable grounds and from time to time identify as a Competitive Enterprise provided that and not before you are notified that Accenture regards each other entity as a Competitive Enterprise.  However, the definition of   Competitive Enterprise   will not include a Person who does not compete with, and will not in the foreseeable future compete with, any Group Member. 
  Consulting Services   means the practice or supply of any services of the type provided, marketed, developed or being developed by Accenture and any other  
    Singapore                        33 

Group Member during the 12 months prior to, at, or after the Termination Date which:  
           (a) 
    you performed or had any material involvement in during the 12 months prior to the Termination Date; or 
              (b) 
    you gained access to Confidential Information or sensitive business information about during the course of your employment. 
     Contractor   means any contractor of any Group Member as at the Termination Date or who was a contractor of any Group Member within the period of 12 months before the Termination Date and with whom you had any material contact or dealings during the Term. 
  Employee   means:  
           (a) 
    any employee, officer or agent of any Group Member as at the Termination Date or who was an employee, officer or agent of any Group Member within the period of 12 months before the Termination Date;   
              (b) 
    with whom you had any material contact or dealings during the 12 months before the Termination Date; and 
              (c) 
    who satisfies any one of the following conditions: 
              (i) 
    the person has had material contact or dealings with or has a direct or indirect influence over clients, customers, contractors or suppliers of any Group Member;  
              (ii) 
    the person was or is a member of the management team of any Group Member; 
              (iii) 
    the person was or is a senior member of the workforce of any Group Member, responsible for finance, sales, marketing, research and development, information technology, human resources, training or any other key area of the business of any Group Member; or 
              (iv) 
    the person was or is a member of a team providing services to clients or customers. 
     Employment Restraint Period   means:  
           (a) 
    a period of 12 months from the Termination Date, but if that period causes a restriction in clause 3 to be held to be unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, then in respect of that restriction only: 
              (b) 
    a period of 6 months from the Termination Date, but if that period causes a restriction in clause 3 to be held to be unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, then in respect of that restriction only: 
              (c) 
    a period of 3 months from the Termination Date, but if that period causes a restriction in clause 3 to be held to be unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, then in respect of that restriction only: 
       Singapore                        34 

(d) 
    a period of 1 month from the Termination Date. 
     Group   means Accenture, Accenture plc, the Affiliates and Related Entities. 
  Group Member   means a member of the Group. 
  Person   means any natural or legal person, firm, corporation, trust, partnership, entity, business, enterprise or other organisation. 
  Prospective Client   means any Person with whom any Group Member or its predecessor has had any negotiations, or to whom any Group Member tendered for the possible supply of Consulting Services or other services or advice within the 12 months preceding the Termination Date provided that: 
           (a) 
    you have had material contact or dealings with that Person during the 12 months preceding the Termination Date for or on behalf of a Group Member; or 
              (b) 
    you are aware of Confidential Information relating to the negotiations or tender. 
     Relevant Territory   means Singapore and the territory or territories within which you actually worked, or in respect of which you were involved in providing services to, during the 12 month period prior to the Termination Date. For the avoidance of doubt, you hereby acknowledge the global nature of your appointment with Accenture and that the scope of your work in the course of your employment with Accenture may involve you working or providing services or being involved in the provision of services in other territories outside of Singapore, whether for the benefit of Accenture or any Group Member, or in the course of the discharge of duties to a Client. Accordingly, Relevant Territory as defined will include such other territory or territories outside of Singapore, provided that you worked in or provided services in or were involved in the provision of services in for the benefit of such territory or territories during the 12 month period prior to the Termination Date. You further acknowledge that you could be regarded as being involved in the provision of services in a Relevant Territory even if you did not physically work in such Relevant Territory, as long as your work efforts were directed towards or for the benefit of Accenture or any Group Member, or in the course of the discharge of duties to a Client in such Relevant Territory. 
  Restraint Period   means:  
           (a) 
    a period of 12 months from the Termination Date, but if that period causes a restriction in clause 2 to be held to be unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, then in respect of that restriction only: 
              (b) 
    a period of 6 months from the Termination Date, but if that period causes a restriction in clause 2 to be held to be unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, then in respect of that restriction only: 
              (c)  
    a period of 3 months from the Termination Date, but if that period causes a restriction in clause 2 to be held to be unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, then in respect of that restriction only: 
       Singapore                        35 

(d) 
    a period of 1 month from the Termination Date. 
     Solicit   means to have any direct or indirect communication of any kind the purpose or effect of which is to invite, advise, encourage or request any Person, in any manner, to take or refrain from taking any action and regardless of by whom it was initiated.  
  Supplier   means any Person who: 
           (a) 
    supplied any Group Member with goods and/or services; or 
              (b) 
    was having discussions with any Group Member regarding becoming a supplier of goods or services, within the 12 month period prior to the Termination Date,  
     provided that: 
           (i) 
    you have had material contact or dealings with that Person during the 12 months preceding the Termination Date; or 
              (ii) 
    you are aware of Confidential Information regarding the Person.  
     Term    means the period during which you have been employed or otherwise have performed services for Accenture, any other Group Member and any of its or their predecessors and/or any other entity associated with any of them. 
  Termination Date   means the date on which your employment terminates for any reason. 
  Restrained Activities 
           2. 
    You will not, without the written consent of Accenture, during the Term and during the Restraint Period directly or indirectly, or through interposed entities, or as sole proprietor, owner, employer, partner, principal, investor, joint venturer, shareholder, employee, member, consultant, independent contractor or otherwise: 
              (a) 
    perform or provide in the Relevant Territory Consulting Services for or on behalf of any: 
     (i)    Competitive Enterprise; 
  (ii)    Client;  
  (iii)    Prospective Client; or 
   (iv)    Associated Person; 
           (b) 
    Solicit, or assist any other Person, to Solicit, any Client or Prospective Client for the purpose of performing or providing any Consulting Services;  
              (c) 
    accept a request from a Client or Prospective Client to provide any Consulting Services; 
       Singapore                        36 

(d) 
    endeavour to entice a Client, Prospective Client, Alliance Entity or Supplier away from any Group Member or interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between any Group Member and a Client, Prospective Client, Alliance Entity or Supplier; 
              (e) 
    counsel, procure or otherwise assist any Person to do any of the acts referred to in any of sub-clauses (a) to (d) above; or 
              (f) 
    at any time after the Termination Date represent yourself as being in any way connected with or interested in the business of a Group Member. 
              3. 
    You will not, without the written consent of Accenture, during the Term and during the Employment Restraint Period directly or indirectly, or through interposed entities, or as sole proprietor, owner, employer, partner, principal, investor, joint venturer, shareholder, employee, member, consultant, independent contractor or otherwise Solicit, employ or otherwise engage, or assist any other Person, to Solicit, employ, or otherwise engage in any capacity any Employee or Contractor for the purpose of performing or providing Consulting Services, or otherwise interfere with the relationship between a Group Member and an Employee or Contractor. 
     Nothing in clauses 2 or 3 will limit the performance of Consulting Services by you for or on behalf of any Group Member or any Person nominated by a Group Member. 
           4. 
    As a payment for the restrictions set out in clauses 2 and 3, you will be paid a gross amount, upon termination of the employment relationship, equal to 100% of the Annual Base Compensation (as may be amended from time to time) as established in Annexure A above ( Sum ). The Sum will be paid in two instalments: the first one will be paid within 30 days from the Termination Date and the second one will be paid within 30 days from the end of a period of 12 months from the Termination Date. You acknowledge that nothing in this clause 4 is a condition to your compliance with the restrictions set out in clauses 2 and 3 and that it shall not be a defence for your breach of clauses 2 or 3 that you are willing to forgo payment of the Sum or any part thereof. 
              5. 
    As an essential part of this Agreement, in order to allow your fulfilment of the post-employment restrictions set out in this Annexure B, you shall give prior written notice to the Company, by way of a letter sent by recorded delivery, concerning the activity that you will carry out during the period this Annexure B is in force and every intended change or modification of it with the indication of the place where the activity will be carried out and the name (which includes your own) of the firm to the advantage of which the services are rendered. This notice must reach the Company no later than the beginning of the activity or its changing or modification.  
              6. 
    Without prejudice to the generality of clause 5, you further agree to communicate, at the Company's request, the activity you will provide during the period this Annexure B is in force within 6 working days from the receipt of the request. 
       Singapore                        37 

Exceptions 
           7. 
    Nothing in clause 2 will preclude you from holding shares up to a maximum of 5% in the outstanding publicly traded stock of a Competitive Enterprise or from reasonable involvement in any professional or educational activity or body. 
       Singapore                        38 

Injunctive relief and other remedies 
           8. 
    You agree that any breach of clauses 2 or 3 may not adequately be compensated by an award of damages and any breach will entitle Accenture, in addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity, to seek an injunction to restrain the committing of any breach (or continuing to commit any breach).  
              9. 
    You acknowledge and agree that Accenture s remedy at law for any breach of the covenants contained in this Agreement would be inadequate and that for any breach of such covenants, Accenture shall, in addition to other remedies as may be available to it at law or in equity, or as provided for in this Agreement, be entitled to an injunction, restraining order, or other equitable relief, without the necessity of posting a bond, restraining you from committing or continuing to commit any breach of the covenants. You agree that proof shall not be required that monetary damages for breach of the provisions of this Agreement would be difficult to calculate and that remedies at law would be inadequate. 
     Severance 
           10. 
    Each restraint imposed by clauses 2 and 3 will be a separate, severable and independent restraint with the intent by such stipulation that clauses 2 and 3 will in each relevant jurisdiction be as operative as the law permits in all its various stated respects notwithstanding the fact that some word or words therein contained may in one or more of those jurisdictions be determined to be void as imposing an unreasonable restraint of trade (the fact of which does not affect the validity or enforceability of the relevant provision in the remaining provisions). 
     Waiver of Restrictions 
           11. 
    Accenture shall be entitled at its absolute discretion to waive compliance with the restrictions set out in clauses 2 and 3 in writing at any time before or on termination of employment. 
     Competitive Enterprises 
  12.     The following are   Competitive Enterprises  * as defined in clause 1: 
  [List of Competitors] 
    
  Extension of scope of protection to Affiliates and Related Entities 
           13. 
    In relation to each Affiliate and Related Entity, Accenture contracts as trustee and agent for the benefit of each such Affiliate or Related Entity.  You agree that, if required to do so by Accenture, you will enter into covenants in the same terms as those set out in this Annexure directly with all or any of such Affiliates and Related Entities.  If you fail within 7 days of receiving such a request from Accenture to sign the necessary documents to give effect to this clause, Accenture shall be entitled, and is hereby irrevocably and unconditionally authorised by you, to execute all such documents as are required to give effect to this clause on your behalf. 

Singapore                        39 

</EX-10.17>

<EX-10.34>
 3
 acn831201510k-exhibit1034.htm
 ACCENTURE LLP LEADERSHIP SEPARATION BENEFITS PLAN

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.34 
  ACCENTURE LLP      LEADERSHIP SEPARATION BENEFITS PLAN 

PLAN DOCUMENT AND  SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION 

ACCENTURE LLP      LEADERSHIP   SEPARATION BENEFITS PLAN 
    
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 
                     
    Page Number 
      
      INTRODUCTION 
    1 

ELIGIBILITY 
    1 

PARTICIPATION 
    2 

SEPARATION BENEFITS 
    2 

RETURN OF ACCENTURE PROPERTY /TIME REPORTS 
    4 

PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT, PERFORMANCE AND COOPERATION 
    5 

REEMPLOYMENT 
    5 

REPAYMENTS AND FORFEITURES 
    6 

ADMINISTRATION 
    6 

GENERAL 
    6 

AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 
    8 

BENEFIT CLAIMS PROCEDURES 
    8 

RIGHTS UNDER ERISA 
    9 

INFORMATION REQUIRED BY ERISA 
    10 

CERTIFICATE OF ADOPTION 
    11 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
    12 

INTRODUCTION 
  Accenture LLP ( Accenture ) adopted this restated Accenture LLP Leadership Separation Benefits Plan (f/k/a the Accenture LLP Senior Executive Separation Benefits Plan) (the  Program ), originally effective as of April 15, 2010 (the  Effective Date ), for the benefit of the Eligible Employees.  The Program is hereby restated effective as of November 1, 2012.  The Program is an unfunded welfare benefit plan for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (hereinafter  ERISA ), a severance pay plan within the meaning of Department of Labor Reg.   2510.3-2(b) and an involuntary separation pay program under Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii).  Except as otherwise set forth in this document, the Program supersedes each prior Accenture severance plan, program or policy covering an Eligible Employee, both formal and informal, including, but not limited to, the Accenture United States Separation Benefits Plan.  The purpose of the Program is to provide an Eligible Employee who is involuntarily terminated from Accenture with Separation Benefits.  This document serves as both the plan document and summary plan description under ERISA. 
  ELIGIBILITY 
  An Eligible Employee shall become a Participant, and shall receive Separation Benefits subject to the terms and conditions of the Program, if the Eligible Employee s employment with Accenture is involuntarily terminated in connection with the Program and the Eligible Employee submits (and does not later revoke) a signed Separation Agreement to Accenture by the stated deadline below.   
  In no event, however, will an Eligible Employee become a Participant in the Program if any of the following applies to the Eligible Employee: 
             
    the Eligible Employee s employment is terminated for Cause; 
                
    the Eligible Employee is offered a Comparable Position with Accenture (or an Affiliate) prior to the Eligible Employee s Termination Date; 
                
    the Eligible Employee s employment terminates because of his voluntary termination, job abandonment, death, or any reason other than in connection with the Program; 
                
    the Eligible Employee requests to return to employment with Accenture following an unpaid leave of absence or a period of long-term disability, and Accenture determines that there are no available positions for which the Eligible Employee is qualified; provided, however, this provision shall not apply to an Eligible Employee returning from a leave of absence which has a legally-protected status (such as Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) leave); 
                
    in connection with a business transaction involving Accenture or an Affiliate (including, without limitation, a sale of assets of Accenture, an outsourcing transaction, or a contractual arrangement with a third party), the Eligible Employee is offered a position  

with the other party to the transaction (or one of its affiliates) prior to the Eligible Employee s Termination Date; 
             
    the Eligible Employee becomes eligible to receive long-term disability benefits from Accenture; or 
                
    the Eligible Employee fails to comply with any condition set forth in the Program.   
     All determinations of eligibility for the Program shall be made by Accenture in its sole discretion. 
  PARTICIPATION 
  Only Participants are eligible for Separation Benefits.  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Program, a Participant whose employment is involuntarily terminated in connection with the Program shall be entitled to the Separation Benefits set forth in the applicable appendix.  Eligible Employees will be required to sign a Separation Agreement and all other documentation to become a Participant and receive Separation Benefits.  Eligible Employees shall also be required to sign a document entitled  Amendment to Restricted Share Unit and Other Grant Agreements  that shall be included in the Participant s departure documentation.  Eligible Employees shall be advised to consult a personal attorney to review the Separation Agreement.   
  An Eligible Employee must submit a signed Separation Agreement to Accenture not earlier than his or her Termination Date and not after the deadline set forth in the Separation Agreement.  An Eligible Employee may have a right to revoke the Separation Agreement.  If such a right exists, it shall be set forth in the Separation Agreement.  Any such revocation must be in writing and must be received by Accenture during the time frame set forth in the Separation Agreement.  An Eligible Employee who chooses not to submit a signed Separation Agreement to Accenture or who effectively revokes the signed Separation Agreement, shall nonetheless terminate employment as of his or her Termination Date but will not be eligible to receive Separation Benefits.  As noted above, Separation Agreements will not be accepted prior to an Eligible Employee s Termination Date nor after the deadline set forth in the Separation Agreement. 
  Signed Separation Agreements (and any other accompanying documents to be signed) must be faxed to Accenture Exit Services Team at (312) 737-9391, scanned and emailed to   AccNA.Exits.Team@accenture.com     or mailed to the following address: 
  Accenture Exit Services Team  c/o HR Transactions  6415 Babcock, Suite 100  San Antonio, TX 78249-2963 
  In the event an Eligible Employee breaches the provisions of the Separation Agreement, the payment of Separation Benefits shall cease and Accenture shall exercise, and the Eligible Employee shall be bound by, the remedies provided in the Separation Agreement. 

SEPARATION BENEFITS 
  An Eligible Employee who complies with each term in this Plan and each term in the Separation Agreement shall be entitled to the following Separation Benefits. 
  Separation Pay 
  The amount of Separation Pay that a Participant shall be entitled to receive depends upon the circumstances of the Participant s termination and his or her Years of Service, as described in the charts below.   
  Standard Package 
  Each Participant terminated other than for Performance Reasons shall be entitled to receive Separation Pay which shall consist of (1) a base benefit determined by the Participant s career level as of the Termination Date, (2) a variable benefit based on the Participant s Years of Service, and (3) a COBRA Payment (more fully described below).  The total amount of a Participant s base and variable benefits are subject to a maximum as set forth below. 
                   Base Benefit 
    Variable Benefit     
    COBRA Payment 
      6 Months of Pay 
    1 Week of Pay for each complete Year of Service (rounded down to last complete Year of Service), but not to exceed 8 Weeks of Pay. 
    $12,000 

Performance Package 
  Each Participant terminated for Performance Reasons shall be entitled to receive Separation Pay as outlined below:   

Unless otherwise required by law and except as provided in the following sentence, Separation Pay shall be paid in a single lump sum on the next regular payroll date following the date Accenture receives the signed Separation Agreement or, in the case of a Participant entitled to revoke the signed Separation Agreement, the next regular payroll date following the date the applicable revocation period expires (or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter in accordance with Accenture s payroll procedures).  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Plan Administrator may, in his or her sole discretion, elect to provide the Separation Pay on a payroll-by-payroll basis in lieu of a single lump sum.  If a Participant dies before receiving full payment of his Separation Pay, such amounts will be paid to his estate. 

If a Participant is on a short-term disability ( STD ) leave as of his or her Termination Date or was scheduled to commence an STD leave no later than thirty (30) days following his or her Termination Date, the Participant s Separation Pay also shall include additional Weeks of Pay (as described below) for the lesser of (i) the number of weeks (if any) remaining in the paid-time portion of his or her scheduled STD leave, or (ii) eight (8) weeks.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the number of weeks in (or remaining in) the paid-time portion of a Participant s scheduled leave is not known prior to the payment of his or her Separation Pay, the Participant shall receive eight (8) Weeks of Pay.  For purposes of this paragraph only, a  Week of Pay  means a Participant s STD pay as determined by Accenture in accordance with Accenture s Short-Term Disability Leave Policy, as amended from time to time. 
  Professional Outplacement Services 
  As additional consideration for signing and not later revoking the Separation Agreement, each Participant, including a Participant terminated for Performance Reasons, shall be entitled to participate in a Managing Director Professional Outplacement Services program to be provided by an outside firm selected by Accenture.  Each Participant shall receive from Accenture separate, detailed information about the Professional Outplacement Services program, including the duration of the program, the types of available services, how to enroll, and the locations of available programs.  No Participant may receive cash in lieu of the Professional Outplacement Services.  A Participant must enroll in the Professional Outplacement Services program in order to participate; enrollment is not automatic.  A Participant may enroll in the Professional Outplacement Services program not before the later of the date the Participant submits the Separation Agreement or, in the case of a Participant entitled to revoke the Separation Agreement, upon expiration of the applicable Separation Agreement.  A Participant must enroll in the Professional Outplacement Services program no later than sixty (60) days after the Termination Date or, in the case of a Participant entitled to revoke the Separation Agreement, no later than sixty (60) days after the date the revocation period expires. 
  COBRA Payment 
  The Participant shall be entitled to receive the COBRA Payment whether or not the Participant is enrolled for coverage in the Active Medical Plan and/or Dental Plan and whether or not the Participant elects COBRA Continuation Coverage.  To receive COBRA Continuation Coverage, a Participant must elect such coverage in accordance with the terms of the Active Medical Plan and/or Dental Plan and otherwise comply with the terms and conditions that apply.   
  Equity Compensation 
  A Participant s termination of employment affects his or her rights and responsibilities under the various forms of equity compensation received during employment.  These may include Founders Shares, Promotion Awards, Celebratory Awards, awards under the Bonus Share Program and may include restricted stock units and stock options.  The type of award, the Participant s age and the date the equity was awarded, among other factors, may all be relevant for determining how termination of employment affects equity compensation.  Each Participant  

should review the terms of the applicable equity compensation plan document and grant agreements to determine how termination of employment affects equity compensation.   
  RETURN OF ACCENTURE PROPERTY/TIME REPORTS 
  As a condition of receiving Separation Benefits under the Program, an Eligible Employee must return to Accenture all Accenture property (e.g., building keys, credit cards, documents and records, identification cards, office equipment, portable computers, car/mobile phones, parking cards, computer diskettes).  In addition, the balance of any expense against an Eligible Employee s Accenture personnel number must be zero, an Eligible Employee must submit final time reports, submit all outstanding expense receipts, and have no balance on any Accenture related credit cards or credit accounts, including but not limited to a Corporate American Express card.  If an Eligible Employee has a credit card or credit account balance, the Plan Administrator may require such Eligible Employee to pay the entire outstanding balance in full within sixty (60) days of the Termination Date before he or she may be entitled to receive Separation Benefits.  Any Accenture property must be returned to Accenture no later than the Eligible Employee s Termination Date. 
  Accenture reserves the right, exercisable in its sole discretion, to reduce (on a dollar-for-dollar basis) the amount of any Separation Benefits payable to a Participant under the Program by any disability, severance, separation, termination pay, or pay-in-lieu of notice amounts that Accenture pays or is required to pay to the Participant through insurance or otherwise under any plan or contract of Accenture (including the amount of any compensation payable and the value of any benefits to be provided during any notice period under an employment agreement with Accenture or any Affiliate) or under any federal or state law (other than unemployment compensation). In addition, Accenture reserves the right, exercisable in its sole discretion, to reduce the amount of Separation Benefits payable to a Participant under the Program by the amount, if any, that the Participant owes Accenture (or an Affiliate). 
  PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT, PERFORMANCE AND COOPERATION 
  As a condition of receiving any Separation Benefits under the Program, each Eligible Employee must:  (i) continue to exhibit professional conduct in the workplace; (ii) adhere to all Accenture practices and policies; (iii) perform his or her regular job duties and responsibilities in accordance with required performance standards; (iv) successfully transition job activities; and (v) cooperate with Accenture personnel in matters relating to his or her position or termination.  If an Eligible Employee does not comply with the foregoing requirements during and after the remainder of his or her employment, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion, such Eligible Employee shall forfeit all benefits under the Program. 
  REEMPLOYMENT 
  If a Participant accepts a job offer from Accenture or an Affiliate after his Termination Date, but prior to payment of his Separation Benefits, the Participant shall not be entitled to receive Separation Benefits.  If a Participant is re-employed by Accenture or an Affiliate after receiving Separation Pay, he must repay to Accenture an amount equal to his Separation Pay but not the  

cost of any Professional Outplacement Services.  Such repayment must be made within fifteen (15) days following reemployment (or such later date as may be specified by Accenture).  A Participant will not, however, be required to repay Separation Pay in the following circumstances: 
             
    A Participant will not be required to repay any portion of the Separation Pay if Accenture decides not to apply this requirement to such Participant.  Accenture has complete discretion to decide whether (and to what extent) to require repayment by any particular Participant, taking into account, among other things, the best interests of Accenture and its Affiliates. 
                
    A Participant will not be required to repay his Separation Pay if such Participant is rehired by Accenture or an Affiliate after a period equal to the total number of weeks represented by that Participant s Separation Pay.  If a Participant is rehired by Accenture or an Affiliate prior to expiration of the period equal to the total number of weeks represented by that Participant s Separation Pay, the Participant shall be required to repay a prorated portion of that Participant s Separation Pay.  
     REPAYMENTS AND FORFEITURES 
  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Program, a Participant shall reimburse Accenture for the full amount of Separation Benefits received by the Participant under the Program if the Participant subsequently discloses any of Accenture s (or an Affiliate s) trade secrets, violates any written covenants or agreements with Accenture or an Affiliate, including but not limited to non-compete and non-solicitation provisions in any employment or equity agreement, or otherwise engages in conduct that may adversely affect Accenture s (or an Affiliate s) reputation or business relations. In addition, any Participant described in the preceding sentence shall forfeit any right to benefits under the Program that have not yet been paid. Accenture shall take such steps as it deems necessary or desirable to enforce the provisions of this subsection. 
  ADMINISTRATION 
  Accenture is responsible for the administration and operation of the Program.  Accenture is the Program s  plan administrator  and  named fiduciary  (within the meaning of such terms under ERISA).  Accenture may adopt from time to time such rules as may be necessary or desirable for the proper and efficient administration of the Program and as are consistent with the terms of the Program.  These rules will be applied on a uniform basis to similarly situated individuals.  In administering the Program, Accenture shall have the authority, exercisable in its sole discretion, to construe and interpret the provisions of the Program and to make factual determinations thereunder, including the discretionary authority to determine the eligibility of employees (or other individuals) and the amount of benefits payable under the Program.  Any decisions made by Accenture shall be final and conclusive with respect to all questions concerning the Program.  No benefits will be provided to any individual under the Program unless Accenture decides in its sole discretion that the individual is entitled to benefits under the Program.  Accenture may delegate to one or more of its employees or other persons the responsibility for performing  

Accenture s powers, rights, and duties under the terms of the Program and may seek such expert advice as Accenture deems necessary with respect to the Program. 
  GENERAL 
  Information to be Furnished by Participants  .    Each Participant must furnish to Accenture such documents, evidence, data, or other information as Accenture considers necessary or desirable for the purpose of administering the Program.  Benefits under the Program for each Participant are provided on the condition that the Participant will furnish full, true, and complete data, evidence, or other information and that the Participant will promptly sign any document required under the Program or requested by Accenture. 
  Employment Rights  .    The Program does not constitute a contract of employment and participation in the Program will not give a Participant the right to be rehired or retained in the employ of Accenture on any basis, nor will participation in the Program give any Participant any right or claim to any benefit under the Program, unless such right or claim has specifically accrued under the terms of the Program. 
  Decision Final  .    Any interpretation of the Program or any decision on any matter within the sole discretion of Accenture made by Accenture is binding on all persons. 
  Evidence  .    Evidence required of anyone under the Program may be by certificate, affidavit, document, or other information which the person relying thereon considers pertinent and reliable, and signed, made, or presented by the proper party or parties. 
  Gender and Number  .    Where the context permits, words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders, the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural. 
  Controlling Laws  .    Except to the extent superseded by ERISA, the internal laws of the State of Illinois shall apply to all matters related the Program (including questions of conflicts of law). 
  Interests Not Transferable  .    Except as otherwise set forth in this document, the interests of persons entitled to benefits under the Program are not subject to their debts or other obligations and, except as may be required by the tax withholding provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any state s income tax act, or pursuant to an agreement between a Participant and Accenture, may not be voluntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned, or encumbered. 
  Mistake of Fact  .    Any mistake of fact or misstatement of fact shall be corrected when it becomes known and proper adjustment made by reason thereof.  A Participant must repay to Accenture any benefits paid under this Program by mistake of fact or law. 
  Severability  .    In the event any provision of the Program is held to be illegal or invalid for any reason, such illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Program, and the  

Program shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal or invalid provisions had never been included in the Program. 
  Withholding  .    Accenture reserves the right to withhold from any amounts payable under this Program all federal, state, city, and local taxes as shall be legally required, as well as any other amounts authorized or required by Accenture policy including, but not limited to, withholding for garnishments and judgments or other court orders. 
  Effect on Other Plans  .    Payments or benefits provided to a Participant under any deferred compensation, savings, retirement, or other employee benefit plan of Accenture are governed solely by the terms of such plan.  Nothing in this Program shall limit Accenture s right to, at any time or for any reason, modify, amend, or terminate any of Accenture s employee benefit or compensation plans, programs, policies, or arrangements. 
  Unfunded Benefit  .    All benefits payable under this Program shall be paid directly by Accenture out of its general assets.  Accenture shall not be required to segregate on its books or otherwise any amount to be used for the payment of benefits under this Program. 
  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 
  Accenture reserves the right to amend the Program at any time and to alter, reduce, or eliminate any benefit under the Program (in whole or in part) at any time or to terminate the Program at any time, as to any class or classes of employees (including former employees), without prior notice.  Any amendment of the Program may be made by proper action of an officer of Accenture.  No employee, officer, director, or agent of Accenture has the authority to alter, vary, or modify the terms of the Program, except by means of an authorized amendment to the Program.  No verbal or written representations contrary to the terms of the Program and its proper amendments shall be binding upon Accenture or the Program. 
  BENEFIT CLAIMS PROCEDURES 
  No person needs to apply for benefits under the Program.  However, if a Participant wishes to file a claim for benefits, he or she (or his or her authorized representative) may make a claim by filing a written description of the claim with Accenture.  Accenture will notify the claimant in writing if the claim is granted.  If the claim is denied, Accenture will notify the claimant of its decision, setting forth the specific reasons for the denial, references to the Program provisions on which the denial is based, additional information necessary to perfect the claim, if any, and a description of the procedure for review of the denial.  Any written claim decision will be sent to the claimant within 90 days (or 180 days if extension is warranted by special circumstances) after Accenture received the claim. 
  A claimant may request a review of a complete or partial denial of the claim for benefits.  Any such request must be in writing and must be received by Accenture within 60 days after the claimant received the notice of the denial of the claim.  The claimant will be entitled to review pertinent Program documents and submit written issues and comments to Accenture.  Within 60 days (or 120 days if extension is warranted by special circumstances) after Accenture receives  

the request for review, Accenture will furnish the claimant with written notice of its decision, setting forth the specific reasons for the decision and references to the pertinent Program provisions on which the decision is based. 
  No person may challenge a decision of Accenture in court or in any other administrative proceeding unless he or she has complied with the claim and appeal procedures described above and such procedures have been completed.  If a claim for benefits is finally denied by Accenture, the claimant may only bring suit in court (or other administrative proceeding) if he or she files such action within 120 days after the date of the final denial of the claim by Accenture.  No action at law or in equity shall be brought to recover benefits under this Program until the appeal rights herein provided have been exercised and the Program benefits requested in such appeal have been denied in whole or in part. 
  All decisions and communications to Participants or other persons regarding a claim for benefits under the Program shall be held strictly confidential by the Participant (or other claimant), Accenture, and their agents. 
  RIGHTS UNDER ERISA 
  Each Participant in the Program is entitled to certain rights and protections under ERISA.  ERISA provides that Participants will be entitled to: 
             
    Examine, without charge, at Accenture s offices, all documents governing the Program, and a copy of the latest annual report (Form 5500 series) filed by Accenture with the U.S. Department of Labor and available at the Public Disclosure Room of the Employee Benefits Security Administration. 
                
    Upon written request to Accenture, obtain copies of documents governing the operation of the Program, a copy of the latest annual report (Form 5500 series), and an updated summary plan description.  Accenture may make a reasonable charge for the copies. 
     In addition to creating rights for Participants, ERISA imposes duties upon the people who are responsible for the operation of the Program.  The people who operate the Program, called  fiduciaries  of the Program, have a duty to do so prudently and in the interest of the Participants.  No one, including Accenture or any other person, may fire any person or otherwise discriminate against a person in any way to prevent him or her from obtaining a benefit or exercising his or her rights under ERISA.  If a claim for benefits is denied, in whole or in part, the claimant has the right to know why this was done, obtain copies of documents relating to the decision without charge, and to appeal any denial, all within certain time schedules. 
  Under ERISA, there are steps a person can take to enforce the above rights.  For instance, if a person requests a copy of the Program documents or the Program s latest annual report from Accenture and such person does not receive them within thirty days, he or she may file suit in a federal court.  In such case, the court may require Accenture to provide the requested materials  

and pay such person up to $110 per day until he or she receives the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of Accenture.  If a person has a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, he or she may file suit in a state or federal court.  If it should happen that the fiduciaries misuse a plan s money, or if he or she is discriminated against for asserting his or her rights, he or she may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor or may file suit in a federal court.  The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees.  If a person is successful in the lawsuit, the court may order the person sued to pay these cost fees.  If the person filing the lawsuit loses, the court may order that person to pay these costs and fees; for instance, if it finds the claim to be frivolous. 
  If a person has any questions about the Program, he or she should contact Accenture.  If that person has any questions about this statement or about ERISA, he or she should contact the nearest area office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, listed in the telephone directory, or the Division of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210.  A person also may obtain certain publications about the rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration. 

INFORMATION REQUIRED BY ERISA 
                   a. 
    Name of Plan 
    Accenture LLP  Leadership Separation Benefits Plan 
      b. 
    Effective Date 
    April 15, 2010 
      c. 
    Plan Year 
    Calendar Year 
      d. 
    Plan Number 
    702 
      e. 
    Type of Plan 
    The Program is an employee welfare benefit plan as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA. 
      f. 
    Plan Sponsor 
    Accenture LLP  161 North Clark Street   Chicago, Illinois  60601 
      g. 
    Plan Sponsor s Identification No. 
    72-0542904 
      h. 
    Plan Administrator 
    Accenture LLP  161 North Clark Street  Chicago, Illinois  60601   Attn:  Toni Corban  (800) 207-2109 
      i. 
    Agent for Service of   Legal Process 
    General Counsel  c/o Ronald J. Roberts  Accenture LLP   161 North Clark Street  23   rd    Floor  Chicago, Illinois 60601 
      j. 
    Separation Agreements/Notices 
    Signed Separation Agreements or revocation notices should be sent to Accenture either by fax, scanned email or by mail to the location specified in the Separation Agreement. 

Any other notices or documents required to be given or filed with Accenture under the Program will be properly given or filed if delivered or mailed, by registered mail, postage prepaid, to Accenture at: 

Accenture LLP  161 North Clark Street   Chicago, Illinois  60601   Attn:  Toni Corban 

CERTIFICATE OF ADOPTION 
  WHEREAS, Accenture LLP desires to adopt and maintain this restated Accenture LLP Managing Director Separation Benefits Plan (the  Program ) for the benefit of its eligible employees, effective as of December 1, 2012. 
  NOW, THEREFORE, Accenture LLP, acting through its duly authorized representative, hereby restates the Program, effective as of December 1, 2012, in its entirety in the form included hereto, which document may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same document. 
     
        Debra Giesen      Executive Director HR   North America 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
   Active Medical Plan  means the Accenture United States Group Medical Plan, as amended from time to time. 
   Affiliate  means any body corporate, branch partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association or other organization carrying on a trade or other activity with or without a view to profit (a  Legal Entity ) which from time to time Controls, is Controlled by or is under common Control with Accenture, including Accenture Federal Services, LLC, Accenture Plc (a company incorporated in the Republic of Ireland) and any other Affiliate to or successor entity of Accenture Plc, and any successor in title or assign of any Legal Entity from time to time.  For purposes of this definition, the term  Control  means (i) ownership by a Legal Entity of at least a majority of the voting interest of another Legal Entity, or (ii) the right or ability of a Legal Entity, whether directly or indirectly, to direct the affairs of another by means of ownership, contract or otherwise. 
   Base Salary  means a Participant s base compensation (as specified by Accenture), determined as of the Participant s Termination Date, excluding overtime, bonus, incentive pay, or any other special compensation such as quarterly variable compensation and annual variable compensation.  For purposes of determining Separation Pay (as described in the  Separation Benefits  section of this document), Base Pay of a Participant classified by Accenture as a part time employee as of his or her Termination Date shall reflect the part-time percentage in effect on his or her Termination Date. 
   Cause  means  cause  as defined in any employment agreement then in effect between an Eligible Employee and Accenture or an Affiliate, or if not defined therein, or if there shall be no such agreement, the Eligible Employee s (i) embezzlement, misappropriation of corporate funds, or other acts of dishonesty; (ii) commission or conviction of any felony, or of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to any felony or misdemeanor; (iii) engagement in any activity that the Eligible Employee knows or should know could harm the business or reputation of Accenture or an Affiliate; (iv) failure to comply or adhere to Accenture s or an Affiliate s policies; (v) continued failure to meet performance standards as determined by Accenture or an Affiliate; or (vi) violation of any statutory, contractual, or common law duty or obligation to Accenture or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, the duty of loyalty and obligations under any employment agreement or its incorporated exhibits.  The determination of the existence of Cause shall be made by Accenture in good faith, and such determination shall be conclusive for purposes of the Program. 
   COBRA Continuation Coverage  means continued coverage after a Participant s Termination Date under the Active Medical Plan and/or the Dental Plan, pursuant to the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA). 
   COBRA Payment  means that portion of the Separation Pay that does not constitute the base benefit or variable benefit. 
   Comparable Position  means a position that, as determined by Accenture, (i) is in the same metropolitan area as the eligible employee s current position, (ii) has compensation and benefits  

(in the aggregate) that are comparable to the aggregate compensation and benefits of the eligible employee s current position, and (iii) would commence within ninety days following the eligible employee s Termination Date.     Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you change career tracks but remain in the same role, you will be considered in a Comparable Position, even if it results in a change to your benefits and/or compensation. 
    Dental Plan  means the Accenture United States Group Dental Plan, as amended from time to time. 
   Deficient Performance  means, as determined by Accenture in its sole discretion, an employee who (i) has demonstrated significant performance deficiencies which have been documented, (ii) has been given a written action plan for improving his or her performance, or (iii) has been given written documentation that describes the consequences of the individual s failure to address deficiencies in the performance of his or her job.  The term  Deficient Performance  excludes any reason determined by Accenture to constitute  Cause.  
   Eligible Employee  means an individual who is, as of the individual s Termination Date: 
           (a) 
    an employee on Accenture s regular payroll in the United States; 
              (b) 
    Career Level 1-4 Managing Director or Senior Managing Director; 
              (c) 
    notified that he or she is being involuntarily terminated because:  
              o 
    his or her role is being eliminated,  
              o 
    his or her skill set is not relevant to current organizational needs, 
              o 
    of over-capacity, 
              o 
    the individual was unsuccessful in completing a requires improvement program, 
              o 
    or for performance issues not in connection with a requires improvement to program (but not for Cause); and 
     (d)     notified that he or she is eligible under this Program. 
   ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 
   Month(s) of Pay  means the amount determined by dividing a Participant s annual Base Salary by twelve (12). 
   Participant  means an Eligible Employee who has been selected for participation in the Program and who has satisfied all the conditions for Separation Benefits under the Program. 
   Performance Reasons  means the Managing Director was terminated (a) because he or she was unsuccessful in completing a three (3) month Requires Improvement plan, or (b) for Deficient Performance. 
   Program  means this Accenture LLP Leadership Separation Benefits Plan. 

Professional Outplacement Services  means services provided by an outside firm selected by Accenture, in its discretion. 
   Separation Agreement  means the agreement provided to an Eligible Employee which the Eligible Employee must execute and not later revoke to become a Participant. 
   Separation Benefits  means the benefits to which a Participant is entitled under the terms of the Program upon execution (and without revocation) of a Separation Agreement.   
   Separation Pay  mean the base benefit, variable benefit and COBRA Payment that a Participant is entitled to receive in consideration for executive and, where applicable, not revoking the Separation Agreement. 
   Termination Date  means the date specified by Accenture for termination of an Eligible Employee s employment with Accenture. 
    Week of Pay  means the amount determined by dividing a Participant s annual Base Salary by fifty-two (52). 
   Years of Service  means, with respect to a Participant, each complete twelve-month period of the Participant s service with Accenture or an Affiliate, beginning with the earlier of (a) the Participant s most recent date of hire with a business entity which Accenture or an Affiliate acquired unless otherwise noted in letter of offer, or (b) the Participant s last date of hire with Accenture or an Affiliate (based on the applicable payroll records) and ending on his or her Termination Date.  Periods of service prior to a Participant s last date of hire with the acquired entity, Accenture or an Affiliate, as applicable, shall not be counted for purposes of the Plan.  Years of Service shall not include accrued but unused vacation time, sick leave, personal time, or any other paid or unpaid time off.  Only complete Years of Service shall be counted as Years of Service.  

</EX-10.34>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 acn831201510-kexhibit211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21.1 
  Subsidiaries of the Registrant 
  Certain subsidiaries of the registrant and their subsidiaries are listed below. 
                 Name 
    Country of Organization 
      Sistemes Consulting S.L. 
    Andorra 
      Accenture SRL 
    Argentina 
      Accenture Service Center SRL 
    Argentina 
      Procurian Argentina SRL  
    Argentina 
      Accenture Australia Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Accenture Australia Holdings Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Avanade Australia Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Codagenic Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      Reactive Media Pty. Ltd.   
    Australia 
      Accenture GmbH 
    Austria 
      Accenture Technology Solutions GmbH 
    Austria 
      KCS.net  sterreich GmbH     
    Austria 
      Avanade  sterreich GmbH 
    Austria 
      Accenture BPM S.C.R.L. 
    Belgium 
      Accenture NV/SA 
    Belgium 
      Accenture Technology Ventures S.P.R.L. 
    Belgium 
      Avanade Belgium SPRL 
    Belgium 
      Blue Insurance Limited 
    Bermuda 
      Accenture Technologia, Consultoria e Outsourcing S.A. 
    Bolivia 
      Accenture (Botswana) (Proprietary) Limited 
    Botswana 
      Accenture do Brasil Limitada 
    Brazil 
      Accenture Servicos de Suporte de Negocios Ltda 
    Brazil 
      Accenture Servicos Administrativos Ltda 
    Brazil 
      AD Dialeto Agencia de Publicidade SA 
    Brazil 
      BPO Servicos Administrativos Ltda 
    Brazil 
      Avanade do Brasil Limitada      
    Brazil 
      Procurian Brasil Servicos de Contratacao de Suprimentos Ltda 
    Brazil 
      Javelin Group (Bulgaria) EOOD 
    Bulgaria 
      Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. 
    Canada 
      Accenture Inc 
    Canada 
      Accenture Business Services of British Columbia Limited Partnership 
    Canada 
      PCO Innovation Canada Inc. 
    Canada   
      Accenture Business Services for Utilities Inc 
    Canada 
      Accenture Nova Scotia Unlimited Liability Co. 
    Canada 
      Avanade Canada Inc. 
    Canada 
      Hytracc Consulting Canada Inc. 
    Canada 
      Accenture Chile Asesorias y Servicios Ltda 
    Chile 
      Neo Metrics Chile, S.A. 
    Chile 
      Accenture (China) Co Ltd 
    China 
      Accenture Technology Solutions (Dalian) Co Ltd 
    China 
      Qi Jie Beijing Information Technologies Co Ltd 
    China 
      Accenture (Beijing) Mobile Technology Co Ltd 
    China 

Name 
    Country of Organization 
      Avanade Guangzhou 
    China 
      Avanade GZ Computer Technology Development Co. Ltd. (SH) 
    China 
      Procurian (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      NewsPage China Ltd. 
    China 
      Accenture Ltda 
    Colombia 
      Accenture  S.R.L. 
    Costa Rica 
      Accenture Services SRL 
    Costa Rica 
      Accenture Business and Technology Services LLC 
    Croatia 
      Accenture Services s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Accenture Technology Solutions s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Accenture A/S 
    Denmark 
      Avanade Denmark ApS 
    Denmark 
      Enmax Technology Ecuador S.A. 
    Ecuador 
      Accenture Egypt LLC 
    Egypt 
      Accenture Oy 
    Finland 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Oy 
    Finland 
      Accenture Services Oy 
    Finland 
      Avanade Finland Oy 
    Finland 
      Fjord Oy 
    Finland 
      Accenture Holdings France SAS 
    France 
      Accenture Post Trade Processing SAS 
    France 
      Accenture SAS 
    France 
      Accenture Technology Solutions SAS 
    France 
      Avanade France SAS 
    France 
      Digiplug SAS 
    France 
      InVita SAS 
    France 
      Javelin Group SASU  
    France 
      PCO Innovation EURL  
    France 
      PCO Innovation France SAS 
    France 
      Accenture CAS GmbH 
    Germany 
      Accenture Dienstleistungen GmbH 
    Germany 
      Accenture GmbH 
    Germany 
      Accenture Holding GmbH   Co. KG 
    Germany 
      Accenture Management GmbH 
    Germany 
      Accenture PLM Gmbh 
    Germany 
      Accenture Services f r Kreditinstitute GmbH 
    Germany 
      Accenture Services GmbH 
    Germany 
      Accenture Technology Solutions GmbH 
    Germany 
      Avanade  Deutschland GmbH 
    Germany 
      Infoman AG 
    Germany 
      KCS.net Deutschland GmbH 
    Germany 
      PCO Innovation Germany GmbH 
    Germany 
      Procurian Germany GmbH 
    Germany 
      Accenture Ghana Limited 
    Ghana 
      Accenture Finance (Gibraltar) III Ltd  
    Gibraltar 

Name 
    Country of Organization 
      Accenture Minority III Ltd 
    Gibraltar 
      Accenture plc 
    Gibraltar 
      Accenture S.A. 
    Greece 
      Accenture BPM Operations Support Services S.A.  
    Greece 
      Accenture Company Ltd 
    Hong Kong 
      Accenture Technology Solutions (HK) Co. Ltd. 
    Hong Kong 
      Avanade Hong Kong Ltd 
    Hong Kong 
      AvantBiz Consulting Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      DMA Solutions Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      LemonXL Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Most Champion Ltd 
    Hong Kong 
      PacificLink iMedia Ltd. 
    Hong Kong 
      Pixo Punch Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Accenture Hungary Holdings Kft  
    Hungary 
      Accenture Industrial Software Solutions Kft 
    Hungary 
      Accenture Tanacsado Kolatolt Felelossegu Tarsasag KFT  
    Hungary 
      Accenture Services Private Limited 
    India 
      Energy Quote Private Ltd. 
    India 
      Zenta Private Limited  
    India 
      Perseroan Terbatas. Accenture 
    Indonesia 
      Accenture 
    Ireland 
      Accenture Defined Benefit Pension Plan Trustees Ltd 
    Ireland 
      Accenture Defined Contribution Pension Plan Trustees Ltd 
    Ireland 
      Accenture Finance Limited 
    Ireland 
      Accenture Finance II Ltd 
    Ireland 
      Accenture Global Services Ltd 
    Ireland 
      Accenture Global Solutions Ltd 
    Ireland 
      Accenture Holdings plc 
    Ireland 
      Accenture Newco Limited  
    Ireland 
      Agave Consultants Limited 
    Ireland 
      Exactside Limited 
    Ireland 
      Tara Insurance Limited 
    Ireland 
      Accenture IOM 1 Company  
    Isle of Man 
      Accenture IOM 2 Company Limited 
    Isle of Man 
      Accenture Ltd 
    Israel 
      Accenture SpA 
    Italy 
      Accenture Technology Solutions SRL 
    Italy 
      Accenture Outsourcing SRL 
    Italy 
      Accenture Insurance Services SpA 
    Italy 
      Accenture Finance and Accounting BPO Services S.p.A. 
    Italy 
      Accenture HR Services S.p.A. 
    Italy 
      Avanade  Italy SRL 
    Italy 
      Avanade KK  
    Japan 
      Accenture Japan Ltd  
    Japan 
      Renacentis IT Services, Co. Ltd 
    Japan 

Name 
    Country of Organization 
      Accenture East Africa Limited 
    Kenya 
      Accenture S rl 
    Luxembourg 
      Accenture International S rl 
    Luxembourg 
      Accenture International Capital SCA 
    Luxembourg 
      Accenture Sendirian Berhad 
    Malaysia 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Sdn. Bhd.  
    Malaysia 
      Accenture Solutions Sdn Bhd  
    Malaysia 
      Avanade Malaysia Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 
      Hytracc Consulting Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. 
    Malaysia 
      Accenture Services (Mauritius) Ltd  
    Mauritius 
      TNT Business Solutions Ltd 
    Mauritius 
      Accenture S.C. 
    Mexico 
      Operaciones Accenture S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Accenture Technology Solutions S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Servicios T cnicos de Programaci n Accenture S.C. 
    Mexico 
      Accenture Services Morocco SA 
    Morocco 
      Accenture Maghreb S.a.r.l. 
    Morocco 
      Accenture Mozambique Limitada 
    Mozambique 
      ACN Consulting Co Ltd  
    Myanmar 
      Accenture Australia Holding B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Branch Holdings B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Accenture BV  
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Central Europe B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Holdings B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Korea BV 
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Middle East B.V 
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Minority I BV 
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Participations BV  
    Netherlands 
      Accenture Technology Ventures BV 
    Netherlands 
      Avanade Netherlands BV 
    Netherlands 
      Hytracc Consulting Nederland B.V.  
    Netherlands 
      Partners Technology Mexico Holdings BV  
    Netherlands 
      PureApps Benelux B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Accenture NZ Limited 
    New Zealand 
      Reactive Media Limited 
    New Zealand 
      Accenture Ltd 
    Nigeria 
      Accenture AS 
    Norway 
      Avanade Norway AS  
    Norway 
      Accenture Services AS 
    Norway 
      Hytracc Consulting AS 
    Norway 
      Hytracc Consulting Stavanger AS 
    Norway 
      Hytracc Consulting Trondheim AS  
    Norway 
      Hytracc Holding AS  
    Norway 
      Accenture Panama Inc 
    Panama 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Srl 
    Peru 

Name 
    Country of Organization 
      Accenture Inc  
    Philippines 
      Accenture Healthcare Processing Inc. 
    Philippines 
      Zenta Global Philippines, Inc. 
    Philippines 
      Accenture Sp. z.o.o. 
    Poland 
      Accenture Operations Sp. z o.o.  
    Poland 
      Accenture Services Sp. z.o.o.  
    Poland 
      Accenture Consultores de Gestao S.A.  
    Portugal 
      Accenture Technology Solutions - Solu  es Inform ticas Integradas, S.A. 
    Portugal 
      Accenture Puerto Rico LLC 
    Puerto Rico 
      Accenture Services S.r.l. 
    Romania 
      Accenture Industrial Software Solutions SA  
    Romania 
      Accenture Managed Services SRL 
    Romania 
      JHA International S.r.l. 
    Romania 
      S.C. EnergyQuote S.r.l. 
    Romania 
      Accenture OOO 
    Russia 
      Accenture Saudi Arabia Limited 
    Saudi Arabia 
      Accenture Pte Ltd   
    Singapore 
      Avanade Asia Pte Ltd  
    Singapore 
      NewsPage Pte Ltd 
    Singapore 
      Prion Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Procurian Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Accenture s.r.o. 
    Slovak Republic 
      Accenture Services s.r.o. 
    Slovak Republic 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Slovakia s.r.o. 
    Slovak Republic 
      Accenture (Africa) Pty Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Accenture Services Pty Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Pty Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Accenture Africa Pty Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Accenture Technology Infrastructure Services Pty Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Avanade South Africa  
    South Africa 
      Accenture Yuhan Hoesa (also known as Accenture Ltd) 
    South Korea 
      Accenture Technology Solutions Ltd  
    South Korea 
      Accenture Holdings (Iberia) S.L. 
    Spain 
      Accenture Outsourcing Services, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Accenture S.L. 
    Spain 
      Alnova Technologies Corporation S.L. 
    Spain 
      Avanade Spain SL 
    Spain 
      Coritel S.A. 
    Spain 
      CustomerWorks Europe SL 
    Spain 
      Energuia Web, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Solium SA (SERVICIOS ON LINE PARA USUARIOS M LTIPLES, S.A.) 
    Spain 
      Accenture Lanka (Private) Ltd 
    Sri Lanka 
      Accenture AB  
    Sweden 
      Accenture Services AB 
    Sweden 
      Avanade Sweden AB  
    Sweden 

Name 
    Country of Organization 
      Brightstep AG 
    Sweden 
      Accenture AG  
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Holding GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Global Services GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Finance GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Finance II GmbH  
    Switzerland 
      Accenture PLM AG  
    Switzerland 
      Avanade Schweiz GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Services AG 
    Switzerland 
      Infoman Schweiz AG  
    Switzerland 
      KCS Informations-systeme AG  
    Switzerland 
      KCS.net Holding AG 
    Switzerland 
      KCS.net AG  
    Switzerland 
      KCS.net AG West  
    Switzerland 
      Procurian Switzerland GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Tell AG  
    Switzerland 
      Accenture Co Ltd 
    Taiwan 
      Accenture Consulting Services Ltd. 
    Tanzania 
      Accenture Co Ltd.  
    Thailand 
      Accenture Solutions Co Ltd 
    Thailand 
      Avanade (Thailand) Co Ltd 
    Thailand 
      AGS Business and Technology Services Limited 
    Trinidad and Tobago  
      Accenture Danismanlik Limited Sirketi 
    Turkey 
      Accenture Industrial Software Limited Liability Company  
  (Accenture End striyel Yaz l m   z mleri Limited  irketi) 
    Turkey 
      Accenture (UK) Ltd  
    United Kingdom 
      Avanade UK Ltd 
    United Kingdom 
      Avanade Europe Holdings Ltd 
    United Kingdom 
      Avanade Europe Services Ltd  
    United Kingdom 
      Accenture Services Ltd 
    United Kingdom 
      Accenture Post-Trade Processing Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Accenture Properties  
    United Kingdom 
      Accenture Azerbaijan Ltd 
    United Kingdom 
      Cloud Talent Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Cutting Edge Solutions Ltd 
    United Kingdom 
      Energy Management Brokers Ltd.   
    United Kingdom 
      EnergyQuote Trading Ltd.  
    United Kingdom 
      EnergyQuote JHA Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 
      Fjordnet Limited  
    United Kingdom 
      Fjord (OSH) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Fjord Network Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Hytracc Consulting UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Javelin Group Limited (UK)   
    United Kingdom 
      Logistics Market Place Limited  (UK) 
    United Kingdom 
      Procurian UK Limited  
    United Kingdom 
      PureApps Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Name 
    Country of Organization 
      TQuila Limited (UK) 
    United Kingdom 
      Total Logistics Supply Chain Consultants Limited  
    United Kingdom 
      Accenture 2 LLC   
    United States 
      Accenture Capital Inc  
    United States 
      Accenture Credit Services LLC 
    United States 
      Accenture Federal Services LLC 
    United States 
      Accenture Inc  
    United States 
      Accenture Insurance Services LLC 
    United States 
      Accenture LLC 
    United States 
      Accenture LLP 
    United States 
      Accenture Sub Inc  
    United States 
      Accenture State Healthcare Services LLC 
    United States 
      ASM Research LLC 
    United States 
      Avanade Federal Services LLC  
    United States 
      Avanade Holdings LLC 
    United States 
      Avanade Inc  
    United States 
      Avanade International Corporation 
    United States 
      Axia, LLC 
    United States 
      BABCN LLC  
    United States 
      Chaotic Moon, LLC   
    United States 
      Computer Research and Telecommunications LLC  
    United States 
      FusionX, LLC   
    United States 
      Hytracc Consulting USA, LLC 
    United States 
      Navitaire International LLC 
    United States 
      Navitaire LLC 
    United States 
      Procurian International I LLC 
    United States 
      Procurian International II LLC 
    United States 
      Procurian LLC  
    United States 
      Procurian USA LLC 
    United States 
      Proquire LLC  
    United States 
      Radiant Services, LLC  
    United States 
      Sagacious Consultants LLC 
    United States 
      Soasta Inc 
    United States 
      Structure Consulting Group, LLC 
    United States 
      Utilities Analyses LLC 
    United States 
      VenueNext Inc. 
    United States 
      Zenta Mortgage Services LLC 
    United States 
      Zenta Recoveries Inc 
    United States 
      Zenta US Holdings Inc. 
    United States 
      Accenture Uruguay SRL 
    Uruguay 
      Accenture C.A 
    Venezuela 
      Accenture Vietnam Co., LTD  
    Vietnam 
      Accenture Zambia Limited  
    Zambia 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 acn831201510-kexhibit231.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23.1 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  The Board of Directors  
  Accenture plc:  
    
  We consent to the  incorporation by reference in the registration statements (No. 333-188132) on Form S-3 and (No. 333-188134, No. 333-164737 and No. 333-65376-99) on Form S-8 of Accenture plc of our report dated October 30, 2015, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Accenture plc as of August 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended August 31, 2015, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2015, which report appears in the August 31, 2015 annual report on Form 10 K of Accenture plc. 

/s/ KPMG LLP  
  Chicago, Illinois 
  October 30, 2015 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 6
 acn831201510-kexhibit232.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23.2 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  The Board of Directors 
  Accenture plc: 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (No. 333-188132) on Form S-3 and (No. 333-188134, No. 333-164737 and No. 333-65376-99) on Form S-8 of Accenture plc of our report dated October 30, 2015, with respect to the statements of financial condition of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan as of August 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related statements of operations and changes in plan equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended August 31, 2015, which report appears in the August 31, 2015 annual report on Form 10-K of Accenture plc. 

/s/  KPMG LLP 
    
  Chicago, Illinois 
  October 30, 2015 

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 acn831201510k-exhibit311.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.1 
  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION 
  I, Pierre Nanterme, certify that: 
  1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Accenture plc for the fiscal year ended   August 31, 2015  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof; 
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
  4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
  (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
  (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
  (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
  5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
  (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: October 30, 2015 

/s/    P  IERRE   N  ANTERME            

Pierre Nanterme 

Chief Executive Officer of Accenture plc 
  (principal executive officer) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 acn831201510k-exhibit312.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.2 
  CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION 
  I, David P. Rowland, certify that: 
  1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Accenture plc for the fiscal year ended   August 31, 2015  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof; 
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
  4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
  (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
  (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
  (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
  5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
  (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: October 30, 2015 

/s/    D  AVID   P. R  OWLAND            

David P. Rowland 

Chief Financial Officer of Accenture plc 
  (principal financial officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 acn831201510k-exhibit321.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.1 
  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer 
  Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
  As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
  In connection with the Annual Report of Accenture plc (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   August 31, 2015   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Pierre Nanterme, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
  (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
  (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: October 30, 2015 

/s/    P  IERRE   N  ANTERME            

Pierre Nanterme 

Chief Executive Officer of Accenture plc 
  (principal executive officer) 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 acn831201510k-exhibit322.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.2 
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer 
  Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
  As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
  In connection with the Annual Report of Accenture plc (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   August 31, 2015   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, David P. Rowland, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
  (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
  (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: October 30, 2015 

/s/    D  AVID   P. R  OWLAND           

David P. Rowland 

Chief Financial Officer of Accenture plc 
  (principal financial officer) 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 11
 acn831201510-kexhibit991.htm
 ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Exhibit 

Exhibit 99.1 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  The Participants of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan and the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Accenture plc: 
    
  We have audited the accompanying statements of financial condition of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the Plan) as of August 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related statements of operations and changes in plan equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended August 31, 2015. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Plan s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan as of August 31, 2015 and 2014 and changes in its financial position for each of the years in the three-year period ended August 31, 2015, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
  /s/ KPMG LLP  
  Chicago, Illinois 
  October 30, 2015    
    
       ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN 
  STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 
  August 31, 2015 and 2014    

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 
    1 

      ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN 
  STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND CHANGES IN PLAN EQUITY 
  For the Years Ended August 31,   2015, 2014 and 2013    

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 
    2 

      ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued) 

1.    PLAN DESCRIPTION 
  The following description of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  Plan ) is provided for general information purposes. Participants in the Plan should refer to the Plan document for more detailed and complete information. Under the Plan, there are two programs through which participants may purchase shares: (1) the Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ) and (2) the Voluntary Equity Investment Program (the  VEIP ). 
  General 
  Under the Plan, which was approved by the shareholders of Accenture plc (the  Company ) at their February 4, 2010 meeting, and approved by the Board of Directors (the  Board ) on December 10, 2009, the Company is authorized to issue or transfer up to   45,000,000   Class A ordinary shares ( Shares ) of the Company. The Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board (the  Committee ), which may delegate its duties and powers in whole or in part as it determines, provided, however, that the Board may, in its sole discretion, take any action designated to the Committee under the Plan as it may deem necessary.  The Company pays all expenses of the Plan. The Shares may consist, in whole or in part, of unissued Shares or previously issued Shares that have been reacquired. 
  The Plan provides eligible employees of the Company or of a participating subsidiary with an opportunity to purchase Shares at a purchase price established by the Committee, which shall in no event be less than 85% of the fair market value of a Share on the purchase date. 
  The fair market value on a given date is defined as the arithmetic mean of the high and low prices of the Shares as reported on such date on the composite tape of the principal national securities exchange on which the Shares are listed or admitted to trading, or, if no sale of Shares shall have been reported on the composite tape of any national securities exchange on such date, then the immediately preceding date on which sales of the Shares have been so reported or quoted shall be used. 
  In general, any individual who is an employee of the Company or of a participating subsidiary is eligible to participate in the Plan, except that the Committee may exclude employees (either individually or by reference to a subset thereof) from participation (1) whose customary employment is less than five months per calendar year or 20 hours or less per week; (2) who own shares equaling 5% or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of shares of the Company or any subsidiary; or (3) who are highly compensated employees under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). The Plan does not currently qualify as an employee stock purchase plan under Section 423 of the Code and therefore receipt of the Shares will be a taxable event to the participant. The Plan is not subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 
  Contributions 
  Payroll deductions will generally be made from the compensation paid to each participant during an offering period in a whole percentage as elected by the participant but not to exceed the maximum percentage of the participant s compensation (or maximum dollar amount) as is permitted by the Committee. Under the ESPP, the maximum whole percentage is   10%   (up to a maximum of   $8   per offering period), provided that no participant will be entitled to purchase, during any calendar year, Shares with an aggregate value in excess of $25,000. Under the VEIP, eligible participants may choose to contribute up to 30% of their compensation towards the purchase of Shares. The amount of the contributions is based on pre-tax cash compensation, but contributions are deducted from after-tax pay each pay period. Individual participation is subject to an aggregate participation limit based on a percentage of total eligible participant compensation as defined by the Plan and permitted by the Committee. The aggregate participation limit percentage was 11% prior to July 25, 2012 at which time the Committee resolved to increase the percentage to 15%. If aggregate compensation is projected to reach this cap, then contributions will stop and participants would be refunded contributions not used to purchase shares. 
  A participant may elect his or her percentage of payroll deductions, and change that election, prior to the applicable offering period as determined by the Committee. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a participant cannot change the rate of payroll deductions once an offering period has commenced. All payroll deductions made with respect to a participant are credited to the participant s payroll deduction account under the Plan and are deposited with the general funds of the Company. All funds of participants received or held by the Company under the Plan before purchase or issuance of the Shares are held without liability for interest or other increment. Under the Plan, the ESPP offering periods in fiscal   2015   included the six-month periods ended   November 1, 2013   and   May 1, 2014  . The current offering period commenced on May 2,   2015   and will end on November 1,   2015  . The VEIP has a calendar year offering period and monthly contribution periods in which shares are purchased on the 5   th    of the subsequent month. 
    3 

      ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued) 

Share Purchases 
  As soon as practicable following the end of each ESPP offering period or VEIP contribution period, the number of Shares purchased by each participant is deposited into a brokerage account established in the participant s name. Dividends that are declared on the Shares held in the brokerage account are paid in cash or reinvested. A summary of information with respect to share purchases was as follows: 
    4 

      ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued) 

As of   August 31, 2015  ,   36,729,462   Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares had been issued under the Plan. 
    5 

      ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued) 

Withdrawals 
  Each participant may withdraw from participation in respect of an offering period (either current or future) or from the Plan under such terms and conditions established by the Committee in its sole discretion. Upon a participant s withdrawal, all accumulated payroll deductions in the participant s Plan account are returned without interest (to the extent permitted by applicable local law). A participant is not entitled to any Shares with respect to the applicable offering period, except under the VEIP for those shares purchased in contribution periods prior to withdrawal. A participant is permitted to participate in subsequent offering periods pursuant to terms and conditions established by the Committee in its sole discretion. 
  Adjustments 
  The number of Shares issued or reserved for issuance pursuant to the Plan (or pursuant to outstanding awards) is subject to adjustment on account of share splits, share dividends and other changes in the Shares. In the event of a change in control of the Company, the Committee may take any actions it deems necessary or desirable with respect to any option as of the date of consummation of the change in control. 
  Plan Amendment and Termination 
  The Board may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan, provided, however, that no amendment, alteration or discontinuation will be made that would increase the total number of Shares authorized for the Plan, or without a participant s consent, would materially adversely affect the participant s rights and obligations under the Plan. The Plan will terminate upon the earliest of: (1) the termination of the Plan by the Board; (2) the issuance of all of the Shares reserved for issuance under the Plan; or (3) the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the Plan. The Board has not initiated actions to terminate the Plan, and unless otherwise noted, has not amended the Plan. 
    2.    BASIS OF PRESENTATION 
  The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on the accrual basis of accounting in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the Plan s management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the accompanying financial statements and disclosures. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 
  As of   August 31, 2015  , Contributions receivable represents payroll deductions from participants with respect to the ESPP offering period beginning May 2,   2015   and ending November 1,   2015  , as well as the VEIP contribution period beginning August 1,   2015   and ending August 31,   2015  . These payroll deductions are held by Accenture plc and/or its affiliates. 
  Plan equity represents net assets available for future share purchases or participant withdrawals. 
    3.    SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
  The Company has evaluated events and transactions subsequent to the Plan s statement of financial condition date. Based on this evaluation, the Company is not aware of any events or transactions that occurred subsequent to the Plan s statement of financial condition date but prior to filing that would require recognition or disclosure in these financial statements. 
    6 

</EX-99.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 acn-20150831.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 acn-20150831.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 acn-20150831_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 acn-20150831_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 acn-20150831_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 acn-20150831_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

