<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090224_10-K_edgar_data_97476_0001206774-09-000314_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1387707</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>374974</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>20144</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>807602</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>65</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001206774-09-000314.hdr.sgml : 20090224
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090224105745
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001206774-09-000314
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090224
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090224

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000097476
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				750289970
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03761
		FILM NUMBER:		09629819

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 660199
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75266
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9729953773

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		12500 TI BLVD
		STREET 2:		PO BOX 660199
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75266

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WnWVU7fjLcsSzvDXCGveFbdzAlNyjelVYw1J5RQYjob5+DK7rz15nT4oLpO5dsm/
 kq45nLnWz98jUcZD9N9/1A==

 0001206774-09-000314.txt : 20090224

10-K
 1
 texas_10k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     Washington, D.C. 20549   
   FORM 10-K      
  (mark one)     

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31,
2008  
  OR  

for the transition period from
__________ to __________    Commission File
Number 1-3761  
   TEXAS INSTRUMENTS
INCORPORATED     (Exact name of Registrant
as specified in its charter)   

Registrant s Telephone Number,
Including Area Code: 972-995-3773      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each
      class     
       Name of each exchange on which
      registered      
   
      Common Stock,
      par value $1.00    
      New York Stock
      Exchange       
   Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:    None         
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant
is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes    x 
  No         
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant
is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes      
  No   x     
  Indicate by check mark whether the
Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes
  x   No
     
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the Registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.      
  Indicate by check mark whether the
Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a
non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  

Large accelerated filer  x     
     
        Accelerated filer          

Non-accelerated filer       
     
        Smaller reporting company

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Yes      
  No   x  
  The aggregate market value of voting stock
held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $36,021,867,805 as of
June 28, 2008.     
  1,276,555,254 (Number of shares of
common stock outstanding as of January 31, 2009)     
  Parts I, II and IV hereof incorporate
information by reference to the Registrant s 2008 annual report to stockholders.
Part III   hereof incorporates information by
reference to the Registrant s proxy statement for the 2009 annual meeting of
stockholders.  

PART I      
   ITEM 1. Business.      
    Company
Overview           
  At Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI), we
design and make semiconductors that we sell to electronics designers and
manufacturers all over the world. We began operations in 1930 and are
incorporated in Delaware. We are headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and have
design, manufacturing or sales operations in more than 30 countries. We have
four segments: Analog, Embedded Processing, Wireless and Other. We expect Analog
and Embedded Processing to be our primary growth engines in the years ahead, and
we therefore focus our resources on these segments.   
  We were the world s fourth largest
semiconductor company in 2008 as measured by revenue, according to preliminary
estimates from an external source. Additionally, we sell calculators and related
products.   
  Financial information with respect to our
segments and our operations outside the United States is contained in the note
to the financial statements captioned  Segment and geographic area data  on
pages 31 and 32 of TI s 2008 annual report to stockholders. It is
incorporated herein by reference to such annual report.  
    Product
Information         
  Semiconductors are electronic components
that serve as the building blocks inside modern electronic systems and
equipment. Semiconductors come in two basic forms: individual transistors and
integrated circuits (generally known as  chips ) that combine different
transistors on a single piece of material to form a complete electronic circuit.
    Our semiconductors are
used to accomplish many different things, such as converting and amplifying
signals, interfacing with other devices, managing and distributing power,
processing data, canceling noise and improving signal resolution. Our portfolio
includes products that are integral to almost all electronic equipment.
  
  We sell two general categories of
semiconductor products: custom and standard. A custom product is designed for a
specific customer for a specific application, is sold only to that customer and
is typically sold directly to the customer. A standard product is designed for
use by many customers and/or many applications and is generally sold through
both distribution and direct channels. Standard products include both
proprietary and commodity products.  
  Additional information regarding each
segment s products follows.  
   Analog   
  Analog
semiconductors change real-world signals   such as sound, temperature, pressure
or images   by conditioning them, amplifying them and often converting them to a
stream of digital data so the signals can be processed by other semiconductors,
such as digital signal processors (DSPs). Analog semiconductors are also used to
manage power distribution and consumption. Sales from our Analog segment
accounted for about 40 percent of our revenue in 2008. The worldwide market for
analog semiconductors was about $36 billion in 2008. According to external
sources, we have about a 12 percent share in the fragmented analog semiconductor
market, which is a leading position. We believe that we are well positioned to
increase our share over time.   
  During 2008, we
discussed our Analog business by reference to high-performance analog and
high-volume analog   logic.  
  High-performance analog products: These include standard analog
semiconductors, such as amplifiers, data converters, low-power radio frequency
devices, and interface and power management semiconductors (our standard analog
portfolio includes more than 20,000 products), that we market to many different
customers (nearly 80,000) who use them in a wide range of products across the
industrial, communications, computing and consumer markets. High-performance
analog products generally have long life cycles, often 10 to 20
years.  
  High-volume
analog   logic products: These include two product types. The first,
high-volume analog, includes products for specific applications, including
custom products for specific customers. The life cycles of our high-volume
analog products are generally shorter than those of our high-performance analog
products. End markets for high-volume analog products include communications,
automotive, computing and many consumer electronics products. The second product
type, standard linear and logic, includes commodity products marketed to many
different customers for many different applications.  
  2  

Beginning with
the first quarter of 2009, we will discuss power management semiconductors as a
separate category of Analog products, separating it from the high-performance
category.   
   Embedded
Processing    
  Our Embedded
Processing products include our DSPs (other than DSPs specific to our Wireless
segment) and microcontrollers. DSPs perform mathematical computations almost
instantaneously to process and improve digital data. Microcontrollers are
microprocessors that are designed to control a set of specific tasks for
electronic equipment. Sales of Embedded Processing products accounted for about
15 percent of our revenue in 2008. The worldwide market for embedded processors
was about $17 billion in 2008. According to external sources, we have about a 10
percent share in this fragmented market, and we believe we are well positioned
to increase our share over time.  
  An important
characteristic of Embedded Processing products is that our customers often
invest their own research and development (R D) to write software that
operates on our products. This investment tends to increase the length of our
customer relationships because customers prefer to re-use software from one
product generation to the next. We make and sell standard, or catalog, Embedded
Processing products used in many different applications and custom Embedded
Processing products used in specific applications, such as communications
infrastructure equipment and automotive.  
   Wireless
   
  Cell phones
require a modem or  baseband  to connect to the wireless carrier s network. Many
of today s advanced cell phones also require an applications processor to run
the phone s software and services, and semiconductors to enable connectivity to
Bluetooth    devices, WiFi networks or GPS location services. We
design, make and sell products to satisfy each of these requirements. Wireless
products are typically sold in high volumes and our Wireless portfolio includes
both standard (or merchant) products and custom products. Sales of Wireless
products accounted for about 25 percent of our revenue in 2008, and a
significant portion of our Wireless sales were to a single customer.   
  As wireless
communications have proliferated, consumers have demanded capabilities beyond
voice. Smartphones (phones that contain email, media, games and computing
capability) represent one of the fastest growing wireless markets. These phones
tend to include many semiconductor products. Major handset manufacturers are
actively pursuing the smartphone market and increasingly focusing their R D
on applications and services. As a result, we believe customer demand for
applications processors will grow as handset manufacturers seek to differentiate
their products by providing software and a unique user experience. Our
OMAP TM    product line has a leading
position in the applications processor market and is used by most of the top
handset manufacturers.  
  Our Wireless
segment has been shifting focus from baseband chips, a market with shrinking
competitive barriers and slowing growth rates, to applications processors, a
market we expect will grow faster than the baseband market. Consistent with this
shift in market focus, we are concentrating our Wireless investments on our
applications processors and connectivity products. We continue to sell custom
baseband products but have discontinued further development of merchant baseband
products.  
   Other      
  Our Other
segment includes revenue from smaller semiconductor product lines and handheld
graphing and scientific calculators, and from royalties received for our
patented technology that we license to other electronics companies. The
semiconductor products in our Other segment include DLP    products
(primarily used to create high-definition images for business and home theater
projectors, televisions and movie projectors), reduced-instruction set computing
(RISC) microprocessors (designed to provide very fast computing and often
implemented in servers) and custom semiconductors known as application-specific
integrated circuits (ASICs). This segment accounted for about 20 percent of our
revenue in 2008.   
  3  

Applications for Our
Products        
  The table below lists the major end
markets that use our products and the approximate percentage of our product
revenue that the market represents. The chart also lists the most frequent
applications and our products used within these key markets.  

End Market     
       Applications     
       TI Products      
   
       Communications     
      Cell phones and infrastructure equipment (wireless)  
 
      Analog, Embedded     
   
      (48% of product    
      Mobile connectivity solutions (including wireless LAN,
      global    
      Processing,     
   
      revenue)    
      positioning systems, Bluetooth     )    
      Wireless, Other     

Broadband (including high-speed wireless home networking,
      cable    

modem)    

High-frequency radio, telecom accessories (hands-free and
      voice-    

enhancement solutions), navigation systems    

Computing     
      Printers    
      Analog, Embedded     
   
      (22% of product    
      Hard disk drives    
      Processing, Other     
   
      revenue)    
      Monitors and projectors    

Notebook and desktop personal computers and servers  

Industrial     
      Digital power controls:    
      Analog, Embedded     
   
      (10% of product    
           Switch mode power supplies    
      Processing     
   
      revenue)    
           Uninterruptible power supplies    

Motor controls:    

Heating/ventilation/air conditioning    

Industrial control motor drives    

Power tools    

Printers/copiers    

Security:    

Biometrics (fingerprint identification and
      authentication)    

Intelligent sensing (smoke and glass-breakage
      detection)    

Video analytics (surveillance)    

Consumer Electronics     
      Medical (biophysical monitoring, digital hearing aids,
      medical    
      Analog, Embedded     
   
      (10% of product    
      imagery, personal and portable medical devices)    
      Processing, Other     
   
      revenue)    
      Digital cameras    

Digital audio players    

Portable media players    

Car audio (radios and CD players)    

DVD players and recorders    

Home theater systems    

High-definition televisions    

Automotive     
      Body systems    
      Analog, Embedded     
   
      (6% of product    
      Chassis systems    
      Processing, Other     
   
      revenue)    
      Driver information/telemetrics    

Entertainment    

Powertrain    

Safety systems    

Security systems    

Education     
      Handheld graphing and scientific calculators    
      Other     
   
      (4% of product    
      Educational software    

revenue)    

4  

Market Characteristics
    
   Product cycle      
  The global semiconductor market is
characterized by constant, though generally incremental, advances in product
designs and manufacturing methods. Chip prices and manufacturing costs tend to
decline over time as manufacturing methods and product life cycles mature.
Typically, new chips are produced in limited quantities at first and then ramp
to high-volume production over time.  
   Market cycle      
  The  semiconductor cycle  is an important
concept that refers to the ebb and flow of supply, with relatively stable
demand. The semiconductor market historically has been characterized by periods
of tight supply caused by strengthening demand and/or insufficient manufacturing
capacity, followed by periods of surplus inventory caused by weakening demand
and/or excess manufacturing capacity. This cycle is affected by the significant
time and money required to build and maintain semiconductor manufacturing
facilities.   
  Although there are similarities with past
cycles, we do not believe the market environment in the second half of 2008 and
early 2009 is simply a surplus-driven inventory correction. Instead, we believe
it is a broad economic slowdown in which consumer and industrial consumption has
dramatically weakened and likely will weaken further.   
   Seasonality      
  Our revenue and operating results are
subject to some seasonal variation. Sales of our semiconductor products are
seasonally weaker in the first quarter than in other quarters, particularly for
products sold into cell phones and consumer electronics applications that have
stronger sales later in the year as manufacturers prepare for the holiday
selling season. Calculator revenue is tied to the U.S. back-to-school season
and, as a result, is at its highest in the second and third quarters. Royalty
revenue is not always uniform or predictable, in part due to the performance of
our licensees and in part due to the timing of new license agreements or the
expiration and renewal of existing agreements.  
   Competitive landscape      
  In each segment, we face significant
global competition from numerous large and small companies, including both
broad-based suppliers and niche suppliers. We believe that competitive
performance in the semiconductor market generally depends on several factors,
including the breadth of a company s product line, technological innovation,
technical support, customer service, quality, reliability, price and scale. With
expertise in both digital signal processing and analog at the system level, we
believe we are capable of providing best-in-class products that integrate both
technologies onto a single chip. In addition, our ability to deliver integrated
solutions and system-level knowledge allows our customers to create more
advanced systems and products and bring their products to market
sooner.  
  The primary competitive factors in the
Analog market include design proficiency, a diverse product portfolio to meet
wide-ranging customer needs, manufacturing process technologies that provide
differentiated levels of performance and manufacturing expertise. Our primary
Analog competitors include Analog Devices, Inc.; Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.;
Infineon Technologies AG; Intersil Corporation; Linear Technology Corporation;
Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.; National Semiconductor Corporation; NXP B.V.;
and STMicroelectronics NV.   
  The primary competitive factors for our
Embedded Processing products are the ability to design and cost-effectively
manufacture products, system-level knowledge about targeted end markets,
installed base of software, software expertise, applications support and a
product s performance and power characteristics. Primary competitors of our
Embedded Processing segment include Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.; Infineon
Technologies AG; NEC Electronics and Renesas Technology Corp.   
  The primary competitive factors for our
Wireless products are the ability to design and cost-effectively manufacture
products, system-level knowledge about targeted end markets, installed base of
software, software expertise, applications support and a product s performance
and power characteristics. Primary Wireless competitors include Broadcom Corp.;
Freescale   Semiconductor, Inc.; Infineon
Technologies AG; Marvell Technology Group, Ltd.; QUALCOMM Incorporated and
STMicroelectronics NV.  
  5  

Manufacturing
          
  Semiconductor manufacturing begins with
the wafer fabrication manufacturing process: a sequence of photo-lithographic
and chemical processing steps that fabricate a number of semiconductor devices
on a thin silicon wafer. Each device on the wafer is tested and the wafer is cut
into pieces called chips. Each chip is assembled into a package that then may be
retested. The entire process typically requires between twelve and eighteen
weeks and takes place in highly specialized facilities.   
  We own and operate semiconductor
manufacturing sites in North America, Asia and Europe. These facilities include
high-volume wafer fabrication plants and assembly/test sites. Our facilities
require substantial investment to construct and are largely fixed-cost assets
once in operation. Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a
significant portion of our operating cost is fixed. In general, these costs do
not decline with reductions in customer demand or utilization of capacity and
can adversely affect our profit margins as a result. Conversely, as product
demand rises and factory utilization increases, the fixed costs are spread over
increased output, potentially benefiting our profit margins.  
  Most of our Analog semiconductors require
a lower level of capital investment in manufacturing and equipment than is
needed for equivalent production levels of our Embedded Processing and Wireless
semiconductors, which are manufactured using advanced logic wafer manufacturing
equipment. While analog chips benefit from unique, proprietary wafer
manufacturing processes, these processes can be applied using older, less
expensive equipment. In addition, these processes and equipment remain usable
for much longer than the manufacturing processes and equipment required for
advanced logic wafer manufacturing.  
  To supplement our internal advanced logic
wafer fabrication capacity, maximize our responsiveness to customer demand and
minimize our overall capital expenditures, our wafer manufacturing strategy
utilizes the capacity of outside suppliers, commonly known as foundries. Our
strategy involves installing internal wafer fabrication capacity to a level we
believe will remain fully utilized over the equipment s useful lifetime and then
outsourcing remaining capacity needs to foundries. In 2008, external foundries
provided about 50 percent of the fabricated wafers for our advanced logic
manufacturing needs, but during the fourth quarter of 2008, we significantly
reduced our foundry purchases. We expect the proportion of our advanced logic
wafers provided by foundries will increase over time. We expect to maintain
sufficient internal wafer fabrication capacity to meet substantially all our
analog production needs.  
  In addition to using foundries to
supplement our wafer fabrication capacity, we selectively use subcontractors to
supplement our assembly/test capacity. We generally use subcontractors for
assembly/test of products that would be less cost-efficient to complete in-house
(e.g., relatively low-volume products that are unlikely to keep internal
equipment fully utilized), or in the event demand temporarily exceeds our
internal capacity. We believe we often have a cost advantage in maintaining
internal assembly/test capacity. Accordingly, we have nearly completed an
environmentally efficient assembly/test facility in the Philippines, and the
facility is in the initial stages of production.   
  This internal/external manufacturing
strategy is designed to reduce the level of our required capital expenditures,
and thereby reduce our subsequent levels of depreciation. Expected end results
include less fluctuation in our profit margins due to changing product demand,
and lower cash requirements for expanding and updating our manufacturing
capabilities. As our internal manufacturing efforts shift to a higher percentage
of analog products, an increasing proportion of our capital expenditures is
devoted to assembly/test facilities and equipment. This is primarily due to the
lower capital needs of analog wafer manufacturing equipment.   
    Inventory     
  While our inventory practices differ by
product, we generally maintain inventory levels that are consistent with our
expectations of customer demand.  
  For custom semiconductor products, where
the risk of obsolescence is higher, we carry lower levels of inventory when
possible. These products have a single customer, are sold in high volumes and
have comparatively shorter life cycles. Life cycles of these products are often
determined by end-equipment upgrade cycles and can be as short as 12 to 24
months.  
  For standard semiconductor products, where
the risk of obsolescence is low, we generally carry higher levels of inventory.
These products usually have many customers and long life cycles, and are often
ordered in small quantities. Standard product inventory is sometimes held in
unfinished wafer form, giving us greater flexibility to meet final package and
test configurations.  
  6  

As a result of the following trends, we
now tend to carry relatively higher levels of inventory than in past years:
standard products have become a larger part of our portfolio; we have increased
consignment programs with our largest customers; and our distributors now carry
relatively less inventory on average than in the past.  
  We manage calculator inventory consistent
with expected seasonality.   
    Design Centers
          
  Our design centers provide design,
engineering and product application support as well as after-sales customer
service. The design centers are strategically located around the world to take
advantage of key technical and engineering talent and proximity to key
customers.  
    Customers           
  Our products are sold to original
equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers (ODMs), contract
manufacturers and distributors. (An OEM designs and sells products under its own
brand that it manufactures in-house or has manufactured by others. An ODM
designs and manufactures products for other companies, which then sell those
products under their own brand.) Our largest single customer in 2008 was an OEM,
the Nokia group of companies. Sales to Nokia were about 20 percent of our
revenue in 2008, and a majority of this revenue was in our Wireless
segment.  
    Sales and Distribution
          
  We market and sell our semiconductor
products through a direct sales force, distributors and authorized third-party
sales representatives. We have sales or marketing offices in over 30 countries
worldwide and have expanded our sales networks in the emerging markets of China,
India and Eastern Europe. Distributors located around the world account for
about 30 percent of our revenue, and a majority of our revenue from many
standard products. Our distributors maintain an inventory of our products and
sell directly to a wide range of customers. They also sell products from our
competitors. Our distribution network holds a mix of distributor-owned and
TI-consigned inventory. Over time, we expect this mix will shift more toward
consignment. We sell our calculator products primarily through retailers and
instructional dealers.  
    Acquisitions, Divestitures and
Investments         
  From time to time we consider acquisitions
and divestitures that may strengthen or better focus our business portfolio. We
also make investments directly or indirectly in private companies. Investments
are focused primarily on next-generation technologies and markets strategic to
us.  
    Backlog         
  We define backlog as of a particular date
as firm purchase orders with a customer-requested delivery date within a
specified length of time. As customer requirements and industry conditions
change, orders may be, under certain circumstances, subject to cancellation or
modification of terms such as pricing, quantity or delivery date. Customer order
placement practices continually evolve based on customers  individual business
needs and capabilities, as well as industry supply and capacity considerations.
Accordingly, our backlog at any particular date may not be indicative of revenue
for any future period. We ship a substantial number of orders in the quarter in
which they are received. Our backlog of orders was $0.86 billion at December 31,
2008, and $1.50 billion at December 31, 2007.  
    Raw Materials
        
  We purchase materials, parts and supplies
from a number of suppliers. In some cases we purchase such items from sole
source suppliers. The materials, parts and supplies essential to our business
are generally available at present, and we believe that such materials, parts
and supplies will be available in the foreseeable future.  
    Intellectual Property
        
  We own many patents, and have many patent
applications pending, in the United States and other countries in fields
relating to our business. We have developed a strong, broad-based patent
portfolio and continually add patents to that portfolio. We also have agreements
with numerous companies involving license rights and anticipate that other
license agreements may be negotiated in the future. In general, our license
agreements have multi-year terms and may be renewed after renegotiation.
  
  7  

Our semiconductor patent portfolio is an
ongoing contributor to our revenue. We do not consider our business materially
dependent upon any one patent or patent license, although taken as a whole, our
rights and the products made and sold under patents and patent licenses are
important to our business.  
  We often participate in industry
initiatives to set technical standards. Our competitors may also participate in
the same initiatives. Participation in these initiatives may require us to
license our patents to other companies.  
  We own trademarks that are used in the
conduct of our business. These trademarks are valuable assets, the most
important of which are  Texas Instruments  and our corporate monogram. Other
valuable trademarks include OMAP TM  and
DLP     .  
    Research and Development
        
  Our primary area of R D investment is
Analog and Embedded Processing products. We conduct most of our R D
internally. However, we also closely engage with a wide range of external
industry consortia and universities and collaborate with our foundry suppliers
on semiconductor manufacturing technology.  
  From time to time we may terminate R D
projects before completion or decide not to manufacture and sell a developed
product. We do not expect that all of our R D projects will result in
products that are ultimately released for sale, or that our projects will
contribute significant revenue until at least a few years following
completion.  
  Our R D expense was $1.94 billion in
2008, compared with $2.14 billion in 2007 and $2.20 billion in 2006.  
    Executive Officers of the
Registrant    
  The following is an alphabetical list of
the names and ages of the executive officers of the company and the positions or
offices with the company presently held by each person named:  

Name     
       Age     
       Position      
   
      Stephen A. Anderson    
      47    
      Senior Vice President     
   
      R. Gregory
      Delagi    
      46  
     
      Senior Vice
      President     
   
      Arthur L. George, Jr.    
      47    
      Senior Vice President     
   
      Michael J.
      Hames    
      50  
     
      Senior Vice
      President     
   
      David K. Heacock    
      48    
      Senior Vice President     
   
      Joseph F.
      Hubach    
      51  
     
      Senior Vice
      President, Secretary and General Counsel     
   
      Melendy E. Lovett    
      50    
      Senior Vice President (President, Education
      Technology)     
   
      Gregg A.
      Lowe    
      46  
     
      Senior Vice
      President     
   
      Kevin P. March    
      51    
      Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

Robert K.
      Novak    
      43  
     
      Senior Vice
      President     
   
      Kevin J. Ritchie    
      52    
      Senior Vice President     
   
      Richard K.
      Templeton    
      50  
     
      Director;
      Chairman of the Board; President and Chief Executive Officer  

Teresa L. West    
      48    
      Senior Vice President     
   
      Darla H.
      Whitaker    
      43  
     
      Senior Vice
      President      
 
  The term of office of the above-listed
officers is from the date of their election until their successor shall have
been elected and qualified. All executive officers of the company have been
employees of the company for more than five years. Ms. West and Messrs. Hames,
Hubach, Lowe, March and Templeton have served as executive officers of the
company for more than five years. Ms. Lovett and Mr. Ritchie became executive
officers of the company in 2004. Mr. George and Ms. Whitaker became executive
officers of the company in 2006. Messrs. Delagi and Heacock became executive
officers of the company in 2007. Messrs. Anderson and Novak became executive
officers of the company in 2008.  
  8  

Employees    
  At December 31, 2008, we had 29,537
employees.     
    Available
Information    
  Our Internet address is www.ti.com.
Information on our web site is not a part of this report. We make available,
free of charge, through our investor relations web site our reports on Forms
10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Also available through the TI
investor relations web site are reports filed by our directors and executive
officers on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports.  
  Available on our web site at
www.ti.com/corporategovernance are: (i) our Corporate Governance Guidelines;
(ii) charters for the Audit, Compensation, and Governance and Stockholder
Relations Committees of our board of directors; (iii) our Code of Business
Conduct; and (iv) our Code of Ethics for TI Chief Executive Officer and Senior
Financial Officers. Stockholders may request copies of these documents free of
charge by writing to Texas Instruments Incorporated, P.O. Box 660199, MS 8657,
Dallas, Texas, 75266-0199, Attention: Investor Relations.  
   ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.   
  You should read the following Risk Factors
in conjunction with the factors discussed elsewhere in this and other of our
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and in materials
incorporated by reference in these filings. These Risk Factors are intended to
highlight certain factors that may affect our financial condition and results of
operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that apply
to companies like TI with broad international operations. Like other companies,
we are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad
that may affect the general economic climate and our performance and the
performance of our customers. Similarly, the price of our securities is subject
to volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, actual financial
results that do not meet our and/or the investment community s expectations,
changes in our and/or the investment community s expectations for our future
results and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  
   Cyclicality
in the Semiconductor Market May Affect Our Performance.   
  Semiconductor products are the principal
source of our revenue. The semiconductor market historically has been cyclical
and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product
demand. These changes could have adverse effects on our results of operations,
and on the market price of our securities. The results of our operations may be
adversely affected in the future if demand for our semiconductors decreases or
if these markets or key end-equipment markets such as communications, consumer
electronics, computing, automotive and industrial grow at a significantly slower
pace than management expects.  
   Our Margins
May Vary over Time.   
  Our profit margins may be adversely
affected in the future by a number of factors, including decreases in our
shipment volume, reductions in, or obsolescence of our inventory and shifts in
our product mix. In addition, the highly competitive market environment in which
we operate might adversely affect pricing for our products. Because we own much
of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating costs are
fixed. In general, these costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand
or utilization of manufacturing capacity, and can adversely affect profit
margins as a result.  
   The
Technology Industry Is Characterized by Rapid Technological Change That Requires
Us to Develop New Technologies and Products.   
  Our results of operations depend in part
upon our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market innovative
products in a rapidly changing technological environment. We require significant
capital to develop new technologies and products to meet changing customer
demands that, in turn, may result in shortened product life cycles. Moreover,
expenditures for technology and product development are generally made before
the commercial viability for such developments can be assured. As a result,
there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and market these new
products. There also is no assurance that the products we do develop and market
will be well received by customers, nor that we will realize a return on the
capital expended to develop such products.  
  9  

We Face
Substantial Competition That Requires Us to Respond Rapidly to Product
Development and Pricing Pressures.   
  We face intense technological and pricing
competition in the markets in which we operate. We expect this competition will
continue to increase from large competitors and from smaller competitors serving
niche markets. Certain of our competitors possess sufficient financial,
technical and management resources to develop and market products that may
compete favorably against our products. The price and product development
pressures that result from competition may lead to reduced profit margins and
lost business opportunities in the event that we are unable to match the price
declines or cost efficiencies, or meet the technological, product, support,
software or manufacturing advancements of our competitors.  
   Our
Performance Depends in Part on Our Ability to Enforce Our Intellectual Property
Rights and to Develop and License New Intellectual Property.   
  Access to worldwide markets depends in
part on the continued strength of our intellectual property portfolio. There can
be no assurance that, as our business expands into new areas, we will be able to
independently develop the technology, software or know-how necessary to conduct
our business or that we can do so without infringing the intellectual property
rights of others. To the extent that we have to rely on licensed technology from
others, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses at all
or on terms we consider reasonable. The lack of a necessary license could expose
us to claims for damages and/or injunction from third parties, as well as claims
for indemnification by our customers in instances where we have contractually
agreed to indemnify them against damages resulting from infringement
claims.  
  With regard to our own intellectual
property, we actively enforce and protect our rights. However, there can be no
assurance that our efforts will be adequate to prevent the misappropriation or
improper use of our protected technology.   
  We benefit from royalty revenue generated
from various patent license agreements. The amount of such revenue depends in
part on negotiations with new licensees, and with existing licensees in
connection with renewals of their licenses. There is no guarantee that such
negotiations will be successful. Future royalty revenue also depends on the
strength and enforceability of our patent portfolio and our enforcement efforts,
and on the sales and financial stability of our licensees. Additionally,
consolidation of our licensees may negatively affect our royalty revenue.
Royalty revenue from licensees is not always uniform or predictable, in part due
to the performance of our licensees and in part due to the timing of new license
agreements or the expiration and renewal of existing agreements.  
   A Decline in
Demand in Certain End-User Markets Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the
Demand for Our Products and Results of Operations.   
  Our customer base includes companies in a
wide range of industries, but we generate a significant amount of revenue from
sales to customers in the communications- and computer-related industries.
Within these industries, a large portion of our revenue is generated from sales
to customers in the cell phone, personal computer and communications
infrastructure markets. Decline in one or several of these end-user markets
could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our
results of operations and financial condition.  
   Our Global
Manufacturing, Design and Sales Activities Subject Us to Risks Associated with
Legal, Political, Economic or Other Changes.   
  We have facilities in more than 30
countries worldwide, and in 2008 more than 85 percent of our revenue came from
sales to locations outside the United States. Operating internationally exposes
us to changes in export controls and other laws or policies, as well as
political and economic conditions, security risks, health conditions and
possible disruptions in transportation networks of the various countries in
which we operate. Any of these could result in an adverse effect on our business
operations and our financial results. Also, as discussed in more detail on
page 47 of our 2008 annual report to stockholders, we use forward currency
exchange contracts to reduce the adverse earnings impact exchange rate
fluctuations may have on our non-U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures.
Nevertheless, in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in
relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business, the
remeasurement of non-U.S. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our
results of operations and financial condition.  
   Our Results
of Operations Could be Affected by Natural Events in the Locations in Which We
or Our Customers or Suppliers Operate.   
  We have manufacturing and other operations
in locations subject to natural occurrences such as severe weather and
geological events that could disrupt operations. In addition, our suppliers and
customers also have operations in such locations. A natural disaster that
results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or the operations of our
customers or suppliers, may adversely affect our results of operations and
financial condition.  
  10  

The Loss of
or Significant Curtailment of Purchases by Any of Our Largest Customers Could
Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations.   
  While we generate revenue from thousands
of customers worldwide, the loss of or significant curtailment of purchases by
one or more of our top customers (including curtailments due to a change in the
design or manufacturing sourcing policies or practices of these customers, or
the timing of customer or distributor inventory adjustments) may adversely
affect our results of operations and financial condition.  
   Incorrect
Forecasts of Customer Demand Could Adversely Affect Our Results of
Operations.   
  Our ability to match inventory and
production with the product mix needed to fill orders may affect our ability to
meet a quarter s revenue forecast. In addition, when responding to customers 
requests for shorter shipment lead times, we manufacture products based on
forecasts of customers  demands. These forecasts are based on multiple
assumptions. If we inaccurately forecast customer demand, we may hold
inadequate, excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our profit margins
and adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition.  
   Our
Performance Depends on the Availability and Cost of Raw Materials, Utilities,
Critical Manufacturing Equipment, Manufacturing Processes and Third-Party
Manufacturing Services.   
  Our manufacturing processes and critical
manufacturing equipment require that certain key raw materials and utilities be
available. Limited or delayed access to and high costs of these items could
adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, the inability to
timely implement new manufacturing technologies or install manufacturing
equipment could adversely affect our results of operations. We subcontract a
portion of our wafer fabrication and assembly and testing of our integrated
circuits. We also depend on third parties to provide advanced logic
manufacturing process technology development. A limited number of third parties
perform these functions, and we do not have long-term contracts with all of
them. Reliance on these third parties involves risks, including possible
shortages of capacity in periods of high demand, the third parties  inability to
develop and deliver advanced logic manufacturing process technology in a timely,
cost effective and appropriate manner and the possibility of third parties
imposing increased costs on us.  
   Our Results
of Operations Could be Affected by Changes in Taxation.   
  We have facilities in more than 30
countries worldwide and as a result are subject to taxation and audit by a
number of taxing authorities. Tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we
operate. Our results of operations could be affected by market opportunities or
decisions we make that cause us to increase or decrease operations in one or
more countries, or by changes in applicable tax rates or audits by the taxing
authorities in countries in which we operate.  
  In addition, we are subject to laws and
regulations in various jurisdictions that determine how much profit has been
earned and when it is subject to taxation in that jurisdiction. Changes in these
laws and regulations could affect the locations where we are deemed to earn
income, which could in turn affect our results of operations. We have deferred
tax assets on our balance sheet. Changes in applicable tax laws and regulations
could affect our ability to realize those deferred tax assets, which could also
affect our results of operations. Each quarter we forecast our tax liability
based on our forecast of our performance for the year. If that performance
forecast changes, our forecasted tax liability will change.  
   Our Results
of Operations Could be Affected by Changes in the Financial
Markets.      
  We maintain bank accounts, multi-year
revolving credit agreements, and a portfolio of investments to support the
financing needs of the company. Our ability to fund our daily operations, invest
in our business, and make strategic acquisitions requires continuous access to
our bank and investment accounts, as well as access to our bank credit lines
that support commercial paper borrowings and provide additional liquidity
through short-term bank loans. If we are unable to access these accounts and
credit lines (for example, due to instability in the financial markets), our
results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.
Similarly, such circumstances could also restrict our ability to access the
capital markets or redeem our investments. If our customers or suppliers are
unable to access credit markets and other sources of needed liquidity, we may
receive fewer customer orders or be unable to obtain needed supplies, collect
accounts receivable or access needed technology.   
  11  

Our Results
of Operations Could be Affected by Warranty Claims, Product Recalls or Product
Liability.   
  We could be subject to warranty or product
liability claims or claims based on epidemic or delivery failures that could
lead to significant expenses as we defend such claims or pay damage awards. The
risk of a significant claim is generally greater for products used in health and
safety applications. In the event of a warranty claim, we may also incur costs
if we decide to compensate the affected customer or end consumer. We maintain
product liability insurance, but there is no guarantee that such insurance will
be available or adequate to protect against all such claims. In addition, it is
possible for one of our customers to recall a product containing a TI part. In
such instances, we may incur costs and expenses relating to the recall. Costs or
payments we may make in connection with warranty, epidemic failure and delivery
claims or product recalls may adversely affect our results of operations and
financial condition.  
   Our
Continued Success Depends in Part on Our Ability to Retain and Recruit a
Sufficient Number of Qualified Employees in a Competitive
Environment.   
  Our continued success depends in part on
the retention and recruitment of skilled personnel, including technical,
marketing, management and staff personnel. There can be no assurance that we
will be able to successfully retain and recruit the key personnel that we
require.  
   ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.
   
  Not applicable.  
   ITEM 2. Properties.    
  Our principal executive offices are
located at 12500 TI Boulevard, Dallas, Texas. The following table indicates the
general location of our principal manufacturing and design operations and the
reportable segments that make major use of them. Except as otherwise indicated,
we own these facilities.  

Embedded    

Analog    
                
       Processing    
                
       Wireless     
   
      Dallas, Texas    
      X   
      
      X   
      
      X    
   
      Sherman,
      Texas (1)     
      X   

Houston, Texas    
      X   
      
      X   

Miho,
      Japan    
      X   
      
      X   
      
      X    
   
      Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (1)     
      X   
       
      X   

Freising,
      Germany    
      X   
      
      X   
      
      X    
   
      Baguio, Philippines (1)     
      X   
      
      X   
      
      X    
   
      Taipei,
      Taiwan (1)     
      X   
      
      X   
      
      X    
   
      Hiji, Japan    
      X   
      
      X   
      
      X    
   
      Tucson,
      Arizona (1)     
      X   

Bangalore, India (1)     
      X   
      
      X   
      
      X    
   
      Nice,
      France (1)     
      X   

X    
   
      Aguascalientes, Mexico (2)     
      X   

Pampanga
      (Clark), Philippines (1)     
      X   
      
      X   

Tokyo, Japan (2)     
      X   
      
      X   
      
      X     
____________________  

(1)  
            
      Portions of the facilities are
      leased and owned.   

(2)  
      
      Leased.    
  Our facilities in the United States
contained approximately 14.1 million square feet at December 31, 2008, of which
approximately 1.7 million square feet were leased. Our facilities outside the
United States contained approximately 6.2 million square feet at December 31,
2008, of which approximately 1.5 million square feet were leased.   
  At the end of 2008, we occupied
substantially all of the space in our facilities.  
  Leases covering our currently occupied
leased facilities expire at varying dates generally within the next 8 years. We
believe our current properties are suitable and adequate for both their intended
purpose and our current and foreseeable future needs.  
  12  

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings.
   
  We are involved in various inquiries and
proceedings regarding laws and regulations related to the protection of the
environment. These matters involve various parties, including government
agencies and, in certain cases, other potentially responsible parties. Although
the factual situations and the progress of each of these matters differ, we
believe that the amount of our liability, if any, will not have a material
adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
  
  The Internal Revenue Code requires that
companies disclose in their Form 10-K whether they have been required to pay
penalties to the Internal Revenue Service for certain transactions that have
been identified by the IRS as abusive or that have a significant tax avoidance
purpose. We have not been required to pay any such penalties.   
   ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote
of Security Holders.   
  Not applicable.  
   PART II   

ITEM
      5.   
       
       Market for
      Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
      Purchases of Equity Securities.     
  The information contained under the
caption  Common stock prices and dividends  on page 49 of TI s 2008 annual
report to stockholders, and the information concerning the number of
stockholders of record at December 31, 2008, on page 36 of such annual
report are incorporated herein by reference to such annual report.  
  The following table shows our repurchases
of our common stock in the fourth quarter of 2008:  
   ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES   
 ____________________  

(1)  
            
      All purchases during the quarter
      were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase
      up to $5 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced on
      September 21, 2007. No expiration date has been specified for this
      authorization.   

(2)  
      
      All purchases during the quarter
      were made through open-market purchases except for 445,000 shares that
      were acquired in October through a privately negotiated forward purchase
      contract with a non-affiliated financial institution. The forward purchase
      contract was designed to minimize the impact on our earnings from the
      effect of stock market value fluctuations on the portion of our deferred
      compensation obligations denominated in TI stock.   

(3)  
      
      The table does not include the
      purchase of 879,644 shares pursuant to orders placed in the third quarter,
      for which trades were settled in the first three business days of the
      fourth quarter for $20 million. The purchase of these shares was reflected
      in Part II, Item 2 in the company s report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
      ended September 30, 2008.    
  13  

ITEM 6. Selected Financial
Data.   
  The  Summary of selected financial data 
for the years 2004 through 2008, which appears on page 36 of TI s 2008
annual report to stockholders, is incorporated herein by reference to such
annual report.  
   ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   
  The information contained under the
caption  Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results
of operations  on pages 37 through 48 of TI s 2008 annual report to
stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such annual
report.  
   ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk.   
  The information concerning market risk
contained on pages 47 and 48 of TI s 2008 annual report to stockholders is
incorporated herein by reference to such annual report.  
   ITEM 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.   
  The consolidated financial statements of
the company at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2008, and the report thereon of the independent
registered public accounting firm, on pages 2 through 33 of TI s 2008
annual report to stockholders, are incorporated herein by reference to such
annual report.  
  The  Quarterly financial data  on
page 48 of TI s 2008 annual report to stockholders is also incorporated
herein by reference to such annual report.  
   ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements
with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.   
  Not applicable.  
   ITEM 9A. Controls and
Procedures.   
   Disclosure Controls and
Procedures   
  An evaluation as of the end of the period
covered by this report was carried out under the supervision and with the
participation of TI s management, including its Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of
TI s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based upon that
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that those disclosure controls and procedures were effective in providing
reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by TI in the
reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission s
rules and forms.  
   Internal Control over Financial
Reporting   
  Management s assessment of our internal
control over financial reporting is contained in the report by management on
internal control over financial reporting on page 34 of our 2008 annual
report to stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference to such annual
report.  
  The report of independent registered
public accounting firm on internal control over financial reporting opining on
our internal control over financial reporting is contained on page 35 of
our 2008 annual report to stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference
to such annual report.  
   ITEM 9B. Other
Information.   
  Not applicable.  
  14  

PART III   
   ITEM     10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance.   
  The information with respect to directors 
names, ages, positions, term of office and periods of service, which is
contained under the caption  Election of directors  in our proxy statement for
the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, is incorporated herein by reference to
such proxy statement.  
  The information with respect to the
company s audit committee financial expert contained under the caption  Board
  organization  in our proxy statement for the 2009
annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy
statement.  
  The information with respect to Section
16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance contained under the caption of
the same name in our proxy statement for the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders
is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.  
  A list of our executive officers and their
biographical information appear in Part I, Item 1 of this report.  
   Code of Ethics   
  We have adopted the Code of Ethics for TI
Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers. A copy of the Code can be
found on our web site at www.ti.com/corporategovernance. We intend to satisfy
the disclosure requirements of the SEC regarding amendments to, or waivers from,
the Code by posting such information on the same web site.  
   Audit Committee   
  We have a separately designated standing
audit committee established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The following directors are members of TI s
Audit Committee: Pamela H. Patsley (Chair), David L. Boren, Stephen P. MacMillan
and Wayne R. Sanders.  
   ITEM 11. Executive
Compensation.   
  The information contained under the
captions  Director compensation  and  Executive compensation  in our proxy
statement for the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by
reference to such proxy statement.  
   ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.   
   Equity Compensation Plan
Information   
  The information that is contained under
the caption  Equity compensation plan information  in our proxy statement for
the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to
such proxy statement.  
   Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management   
  The information that is contained under
the captions  Security ownership of certain beneficial owners  and  Security
ownership of management  in our proxy statement for the 2009 annual meeting of
stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement. The
information concerning ownership of TI s common stock by each of the directors,
which is contained under the caption  Directors  ages, service and stock
ownership  in such proxy statement, is also incorporated herein by reference to
such proxy statement.  
   ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions, and Director Independence.   
  The information contained under the
caption  Related person transactions  in the company s proxy statement for the
2009 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such
proxy statement.  
  The information contained under the
caption  Director independence  in the company s proxy statement for the 2009
annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy
statement.     
  15  

ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and
Services.   
  The information with respect to principal
accountant fees and services contained under the caption  Proposal to ratify
appointment of independent registered public accounting firm  in our proxy
statement for the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by
reference to such proxy statement.  
   PART IV   
   ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial
Statement Schedules.   
  (a) 1 and 2. Financial Statements and
Financial Statement Schedules:  
  The financial statements are listed in the
index on page 23 hereof.  
  3. Exhibits:  

Designation
      of   

Exhibit
      in   

this Report   
           
      Description of Exhibit   
   
      3(a)  
       
      Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Registrant s Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).   

3(b)  
      
      Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation
      of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to the
      Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).   

3(c)  
      
      Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation
      of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(c) to the
      Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).   

3(d)  
      
      Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation
      of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the
      Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
      1996).   

3(e)  
      
      Certificate of Ownership merging Texas Instruments Automation
      Controls, Inc. into the Registrant (incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 3(e) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
      for the year 1993).   

3(f)  
      
      Certificate of Elimination of Designations of Preferred Stock of
      the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(f) to the
      Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).   

3(g)  
      
      Certificate of Ownership and Merger merging Tiburon Systems, Inc.
      into the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      4(g) to the Registrant s Registration Statement No. 333-41919 on Form
      S-8).   

3(h)  
      
      Certificate of Ownership and Merger merging Tartan, Inc. into the
      Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(h) to the
      Registrant s Registration Statement No. 333-41919 on Form
  S-8).   

3(i)  
      
      Certificate of Designation relating to the Registrant s
      Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock (incorporated by reference to
      Exhibit 4(a) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
      quarter ended September 30, 1998).   

3(j)  
      
      Certificate of Elimination of Designation of Preferred Stock of the
      Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(j) to the Registrant s
      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
1998).     
  16  

Designation
      of   

Exhibit
      in   

this Report   
           
      Description of Exhibit    
   
      3(k)  
      
      Certificate of Ownership and Merger merging Intersect Technologies,
      Inc. with and into the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      3(k) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      1999).   

3(l)  
      
      Certificate of Ownership and Merger merging Soft Warehouse, Inc.
      with and into the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(l) to
      the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
  1999).   

3(m)  
      
      Certificate of Ownership and Merger merging Silicon Systems, Inc.
      with and into the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(m) to
      the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
  1999).   

3(n)  
      
      Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(n) to the Registrant s
      Registration Statement on Form S-4 No. 333-41030 filed on July 7,
      2000).   

3(o)  
      
      Certificate of Ownership and Merger merging Power Trends, Inc. with
      and into the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(o) to the
      Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 2001).   

3(p)  
      
      Certificate of Ownership and Merger merging Amati Communications
      Corporation with and into the Registrant (incorporated by reference to
      Exhibit 3(p) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      2001).   

3(q)  
      
      Certificate of Ownership and Merger merging Texas Instruments San
      Diego Incorporated with and into the Registrant (incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 3(q) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
      year 2002).   

3(r)  
      
      Certificate of Ownership and Merger merging Texas Instruments
      Burlington Incorporated with and into the Registrant (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 3(r) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
      for the year 2003).   

3(s)  
      
      Certificate of Ownership and Merger merging Texas Instruments
      Automotive Sensors and Controls San Jose Inc. with and into the Registrant
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to the Registrant s Current
      Report on Form 8-K dated October 31, 2004).   

3(t)  
      
      Certificate of Elimination of Series B Participating Cumulative
      Preferred Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the
      Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 23, 2008).   

3(u)  
       
      By-Laws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3
      to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 18,
    2008).   

10(a)  
       
      TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10(a) to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 1,
      2009).*   

10(b)(i)  
      
      TI Employees Non-Qualified Pension Plan (formerly named the TI
      Employees Supplemental Pension Plan) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10(b)(i) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      1999).*   

10(b)(ii)  
      
      First Amendment to TI Employees Non-Qualified Pension Plan
      (formerly named the TI Supplemental Pension Plan) (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10(b)(ii) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form
      10-K for the year 1999).*     
  17  

Designation
      of   

Exhibit in   

this Report   
           
      Description of Exhibit    
   
      10(b)(iii)  
      
      Second Amendment to TI Employees Non-Qualified Pension Plan
      (formerly named the TI Supplemental Pension Plan) (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10(b)(iii) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form
      10-K for the year 2002).*   

10(b)(iv)  
      
      Third Amendment to TI Employees Non-Qualified Pension Plan
      (formerly named the TI Supplemental Pension Plan) (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10(b)(iv) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form
      10-K for the year 2002).*   

10(b)(v)  
      
      Fourth Amendment to TI Employees Non-Qualified Pension Plan
      (formerly named the TI Supplemental Pension Plan) (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10(b)(v) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form
      10-K for the year 2003).*   

10(b)(vi)  
       
      TI Employees Non-Qualified Pension Plan II (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K
      dated January 1, 2009).*   

10(c)  
       
      Texas Instruments Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form
      10-K for the year 1993).*   

10(d)  
       
      Texas Instruments 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
      for the quarter ended June 30, 1996).*   

10(e)  
       
      Texas Instruments 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended October
      16, 2008.*   

10(f)  
       
      Texas Instruments 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended October
      16, 2008.   

10(g)  
       
      Texas Instruments Executive Officer Performance Plan as amended
      October 16, 2008.*   

10(h)  
       
      Texas Instruments Restricted Stock Unit Plan for Directors
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Registrant s Quarterly
      Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998).   

10(i)  
       
      Texas Instruments Directors Deferred Compensation Plan
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Registrant s Quarterly
      Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998).   

10(j)  
       
      Texas Instruments Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Registrant s Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the year 2000).   

10(k)  
       
      Texas Instruments 2003 Director Compensation Plan as amended
      October 16, 2008.   

10(l)  
      
      Form of Stock Option Agreement for Executive Officers under the
      Texas Instruments 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 10(l) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
      year 2006).*   

10(m)  
      
      Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Texas Instruments
      2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m)
      to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
    2006).*   

10(n)  
      
      Asset and Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of January 8, 2006,
      between Texas Instruments Incorporated and S C Purchase Corp.
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant s Current
      Report on Form 8-K dated January 8, 2006).   

13  
       
      Portions of Registrant s 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders
      incorporated by reference herein.   

21  
       
      List of Subsidiaries of the
Registrant.     
  18  

* Management compensation plans and
arrangements.  
   Safe Harbor  Statement under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:     
  This report includes forward-looking
statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking
statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management
 believes,   expects,   anticipates,   foresees,   forecasts,   estimates  or
other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements herein that
describe TI s business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals
also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are
subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.  
  We urge you to carefully consider the
following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from the expectations of TI or its management:  
 
    Market demand for semiconductors, particularly in
  key markets such as communications, entertainment electronics and
  computing;   
    TI s ability to maintain or improve profit
  margins, including its ability to utilize its manufacturing facilities at
  sufficient levels to cover its fixed operating costs, in an intensely
  competitive and cyclical industry;   
    TI s ability to develop, manufacture and market
  innovative products in a rapidly changing technological
  environment;   
    TI s ability to compete in products and prices in
  an intensely competitive industry;   
    TI s ability to maintain and enforce a strong
  intellectual property portfolio and obtain needed licenses from third
  parties;   
    Expiration of license agreements between TI and
  its patent licensees, and market conditions reducing royalty payments to
  TI;   
    Economic, social and political conditions in the
  countries in which TI, its customers or its suppliers operate, including
  security risks, health conditions, possible disruptions in transportation
  networks and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;   

    Natural events such as severe weather and
  earthquakes in the locations in which TI, its customers or its suppliers
  operate;   
    Availability and cost of raw materials, utilities,
  manufacturing equipment, third-party manufacturing services and manufacturing
  technology;   
    Changes in the tax rate applicable to TI as the
  result of changes in tax law, the jurisdictions in which profits are
  determined to be earned and taxed, the outcome of tax audits and the ability
  to realize deferred tax assets;   
    Losses or curtailments of purchases from key
  customers and the timing and amount of distributor and other customer
  inventory adjustments;   
    Customer demand that differs from our
  forecasts;   
  19  

The financial impact of inadequate or excess TI
  inventory that results from demand that differs from
  projections;   
    The ability of TI and its customers and suppliers
  to access their bank accounts and lines of credit or otherwise access the
  capital markets;   
    Product liability or warranty claims, claims based
  on epidemic or delivery failure or recalls by TI customers for a product
  containing a TI part;   
    TI s ability to recruit and retain skilled
  personnel; and   
    Timely implementation of new manufacturing
  technologies, installation of manufacturing equipment and the ability to
  obtain needed third-party foundry and assembly/test subcontract
  services.   
  For a more detailed discussion of these
factors see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of this report. The
forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date
of this report and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking
statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.  
  20  

SIGNATURE  
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.  

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS
      INCORPORATED     

By:  
     
      /s/ Kevin P. March   

Kevin
      P. March Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
      Accounting Officer   

Date: February
      24, 2009    

Each person whose signature appears below
constitutes and appoints each of Richard K. Templeton, Kevin P. March and Joseph
F. Hubach, or any of them, each acting alone, his or her true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and
resubstitution, for such person and in his or her name, place and stead, in any
and all capacities in connection with the annual report on Form 10-K of Texas
Instruments Incorporated for the year ended December 31, 2008, to sign any and
all amendments to the Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits
thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, each
acting alone, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and
thing requisite and necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or their
substitutes or substitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.  
  Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated on
the 24 th  day of February 2009.  

Signature     

Title      

/s/ James R. Adams   

Director     

James R.
      Adams     

/s/ David L. Boren   

Director     

David L.
      Boren     

/s/ Daniel A. Carp   

Director     

Daniel A.
      Carp     

/s/ Carrie S. Cox   

Director     

Carrie S.
      Cox     

/s/ David R. Goode   

Director     

David R.
      Goode     

/s/ Stephen P. MacMillan   

Director     

Stephen P.
      MacMillan     

/s/ Pamela H. Patsley   

Director     

Pamela H.
      Patsley     

21  

/s/ Wayne R. Sanders   

Director     

Wayne
      R. Sanders       

/s/ Ruth J. Simmons   

Director     

Ruth
      J. Simmons       

/s/ Richard K. Templeton   

Chairman of
      the Board; Director; President and Chief  

Richard K. Templeton   

Executive
      Officer     

/s/ Christine Todd Whitman   

Director     

Christine Todd Whitman   

/s/ Kevin P. March   

Senior Vice
      President; Chief Financial Officer; Chief  

Kevin
      P. March       

Accounting
      Officer      
  22  

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES   
  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Item
15(a))  

Page     

Reference
      in     

2008
      Annual     

Report
      to     

Stockholders     
   
      Information incorporated by reference to the Registrant s 2008
      annual report to    

stockholders    

Consolidated financial statements:    

Income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
      2008    
      2    

Comprehensive income for each of the three years in the period
      ended December    

31,
      2008    
      3 

Balance sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007    
      4    

Cash
      flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
      2008    
      5    

Stockholders  equity for each of the three years in the period
      ended December 31,    

2008    
      6    

Notes to financial statements    
      7    

Report of independent registered public accounting
      firm    
      33 

Report by management on internal control over financial
      reporting    
      34 

Report of independent registered public accounting firm on internal
      control over    

financial reporting    
      35 
        
  Schedules have been omitted because the
required information is not present or not present in amounts sufficient to
require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is
included in the consolidated financial statements or the notes
thereto.  
  23  

<EX-10.E>
 2
 exhibit_10-e.htm
 TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2000 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AS AMENDED OCTOBER 16, 2008

Exhibit 10(e)   
   TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2000 LONG-TERM
INCENTIVE PLAN    
   As Amended October 16, 2008
   
         S  ECTION   1.    Purpose.    
       The Texas
Instruments 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan is designed to enhance the ability of
the Company to attract and retain exceptionally qualified individuals and to
encourage them to acquire a proprietary interest in the growth and performance
of the Company.   
         S  ECTION   2.    Definitions.      
       As used in
the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
  
         (a)     Affiliate     shall mean (i) any entity
that, directly or indirectly, is controlled by the Company or (ii) any entity in
which the Company has a significant equity interest, in either case as
determined by the Committee.   
         (b)     Award     shall mean any Option, award of
Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Unit or Other Stock-Based
Award granted under the Plan.   
         (c)     Award Agreement     shall mean any
written agreement, contract or other instrument or document evidencing any Award
granted under the Plan, which may, but need not, be executed or acknowledged by
a Participant.   
         (d)     Board     shall mean the board of
directors of the Company.   
         (e)     Cash Flow     for a period shall mean net
cash provided by operating activities as determined by the Company s independent
auditors in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and
reported to the Committee.   
         (f)     Change of Control     shall mean the
first to occur of:   
         (i) an individual, corporation,
partnership, group, associate or other entity or person, as such term is defined
in Section 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ),
other than the Company or any employee benefit plan(s) sponsored by the Company,
is or becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the
Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of 30% or more of the combined voting
power of the Company s outstanding securities ordinarily having the right to
vote at elections of directors;   

(ii) individuals who constitute the
Board of Directors of the Company on the effective date of the Plan (the
 Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority
thereof, provided that any Approved Director, as hereinafter defined, shall be,
for purposes of this subsection (ii), considered as though such person were a
member of the Incumbent Board. An  Approved Director,  for purposes of this
subsection (ii), shall mean any person becoming a director subsequent to the
effective date of the Plan whose election, or nomination for election by the
Company s stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least three-quarters of the
directors comprising the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by
approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as
a nominee of the Company for director), but shall not include any such
individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of either an
actual or threatened election contest (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of
Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) or other actual or threatened
solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of an individual,
corporation, partnership, group, associate or other entity or person other than
the Board;   
         (iii) the approval by the
stockholders of the Company of a plan or agreement providing (A) for a merger or
consolidation of the Company other than with a wholly-owned subsidiary and other
than a merger or consolidation that would result in the voting securities of the
Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by
remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the
surviving entity) more than 65% of the combined voting power of the voting
securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after
such merger or consolidation, or (B) for a sale, exchange or other disposition
of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. If any of the events
enumerated in this subsection (iii) occurs, the Committee shall determine the
effective date of the Change of Control resulting therefrom for purposes of the
Plan;   
         (iv) In addition to the events
described in subsections (i), (ii) and (iii), it shall be a  Change of Control 
for purposes hereof for any Participant principally employed in the business of
a Designated Business Unit, as hereinafter defined, if an event described in
subsections (i), (ii) or (iii) shall occur, except that for purposes of this
subsection (iv), references in such subsections to the  Company  shall be deemed
to refer to the Designated Business Unit in the business of which the
Participant is principally employed. A Change in Control described in this
subsection (iv) shall apply only to a Participant employed principally by the
affected Designated Business Unit. For purposes of this subsection (iv),
   Designated Business Unit  shall mean any
business down to the SBE minus 2 level sold by the Company in which the Company
does not retain an equity interest and any other
business unit identified as a Designated Business Unit by the Committee from
time to time.   
  2   

(g)         Code     shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to
time.   
       (h)         Committee     shall mean a committee of the Board designated by the Board to
administer the Plan. Unless otherwise determined by the Board, the Compensation
Committee designated by the Board shall be the Committee under the Plan.
  
       (i)         Company     shall mean Texas Instruments Incorporated, together with any successor
thereto.   
       (j)         Cycle Time Improvement     shall mean a reduction of the actual time a specific process
relating to a product or service of the Company takes to accomplish.   
       (k)         Earnings Before Income Taxes,
Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA)     shall
mean net income from continuing operations plus (a) provision for income taxes,
(b) depreciation expense and (c) amortization expense as determined by the
Company s independent auditors in accordance with GAAP and reported to the
Committee.   
       (l)         Earnings Per Share     for a period shall mean diluted earnings per common share
from continuing operation before extraordinary items as determined by the
Company s independent auditors in accordance with GAAP and reported to the
Committee.   
       (m)         Executive Group     shall mean every person who is expected by the Committee to
be both (i) a  covered employee  as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code as of
the end of the taxable year in which payment of the Award may be deducted by the
Company, and (ii) the recipient of compensation of more than $1,000,000 for that
taxable year.  
       (n)         Fair Market Value     shall mean, with respect to any property (including, without
limitation, any Shares or other securities) the fair market value of such
property determined by such methods or procedures as shall be established from
time to time by the Committee.   
       (o)         Incentive Stock Option     shall mean an option granted under Section 6 that is
intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code, or any successor
provision thereto.   
       (p)         Manufacturing Process
Yield     shall mean the good units produced as
a percent of the total units processed.   
  3   

(q)         Market Share     shall mean the percent of sales of the total available
market in an industry, product line or product attained by the Company or one of
its business units during a time period.   
       (r)         Net Revenue Per
Employee     in a period shall mean net revenue
divided by the average number of employees of the Company, with average defined
as the sum of the number of employees at the beginning and ending of the period
divided by two.   
       (s)         Non-Qualified Stock
Option     shall mean an option granted under
Section 6 that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.   
       (t)         Option     shall mean an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
  
       (u)         Other Stock-Based
Award     shall mean any right granted under
Section 9.   
       (v)         Participant     shall mean an individual granted an Award under the Plan.   
         (w)  
      Performance
Unit     shall mean any right granted under
Section 8.   
       (x)         Plan     shall mean this Texas Instruments 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
  
       (y)         Profit from Operations     for a period shall mean the profit from operations as
determined by the Company s independent auditors in accordance with GAAP and
reported to the Committee.   
       (z)         Profit from Operations Dollar
Growth     for a period shall mean the
percentage change of profit from operations from one period to another as
determined by the Company s independent auditors in accordance with GAAP and
reported to the Committee.   
       (aa)         Profit from Operations Percentage
Growth     for a period shall mean the
percentage change of profit from operations as a percent of revenue from one
period to another as determined by the Company s independent auditors in
accordance with GAAP and reported to the Committee.   
         (bb)  
      Restricted
Stock     shall mean any Share granted under
Section 7.   
       (cc)         Restricted Stock Unit     shall mean a contractual right granted under Section 7 that
is denominated in Shares, each of which represents a right to receive the value
of a Share (or a percentage of such value, which percentage may be higher than
100%) upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and the applicable
Award Agreement.   
  4   

(dd)         Return On Capital     for a period shall mean net income divided by stockholders 
equity as determined by the Company s independent auditors in accordance with
GAAP and reported to the Committee.   
       (ee)         Return On Common
Equity     for a period shall mean net income
less preferred stock dividends divided by total stockholders  equity, less
amounts, if any, attributable to preferred stock.   
       (ff)         Return On Net Assets     for a period shall mean net income less preferred stock
dividends divided by the difference of average total assets less average
non-debt liabilities, with average defined as the sum of assets or liabilities
at the beginning and ending of the period divided by two.   
       (gg)         Revenue Growth     shall mean the percentage change in revenue (as defined in
Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 6, published by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board) from one period to another.   
       (hh)         Shares     shall mean shares of the common stock of the Company, $1.00 par value.
  
       (ii)         Substitute Awards     shall mean Awards granted in assumption of, or in
substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by a company acquired by
the Company or with which the Company combines.   
       (jj)         Total Stockholder
Return     shall mean the sum of the
appreciation in the Company s stock price and dividends paid on the common stock
of the Company over a given period of time.   
         S  ECTION   3.    Eligibility.      
         (a) Any individual who is employed
by the Company or any Affiliate, and any individual who provides services to the
Company or any Affiliate as an independent contractor, including any officer or
employee-director, shall be eligible to be selected to receive an Award under
the Plan.   
         (b) An individual who has agreed to
accept employment by, or to provide services to, the Company or an Affiliate
shall be deemed to be eligible for Awards hereunder as of the date of such
agreement.   
         (c) Directors who are not full-time
or part-time officers or employees are not eligible to receive Awards hereunder.
  
         (d) Holders of options and other
types of Awards granted by a company acquired by the Company or with which the
Company combines are eligible for grant of Substitute Awards hereunder in
connection with such acquisition or combination transaction.   
  5   

S  ECTION   4.    Administration.      
       (a) The Plan
shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall be appointed by the
Board and shall consist of not less than three directors. The Board may
designate one or more directors as alternate members of the Committee who may
replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the Committee. No
member or alternate member of the Committee shall be eligible, while a member or
alternate member, for participation in the Plan. A director may serve as a
member or alternate member of the Committee only during periods in which a
director is an  outside director  as described in Section 162(m) of the Code.
The Committee may issue rules and regulations for administration of the Plan. It
shall meet at such times and places as it may determine. A majority of the
members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum.   
         (b) Subject to the terms of the Plan
and applicable law, the Committee shall have full power and authority to: (i)
designate Participants; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards (including
Substitute Awards) to be granted to each Participant under the Plan; (iii)
determine the number of Shares to be covered by (or with respect to which
payments, rights, or other matters are to be calculated in connection with)
Awards; (iv) determine the terms and conditions of any Award; (v) determine
whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances Awards may be settled or
exercised in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, or other property, or
canceled, forfeited or suspended, and the method or methods by which Awards may
be settled, exercised, canceled, forfeited or suspended; (vi) determine,
consistent with Section 10(h), whether, to what extent, and under what
circumstances cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, other property, and
other amounts payable with respect to an Award under the Plan shall be deferred
either automatically or at the election of the holder thereof or of the
Committee; (vii) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or
agreement relating to, or Award made under, the Plan; (viii) establish, amend,
suspend or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall
deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; (ix) determine
whether and to what extent Awards should comply or continue to comply with any
requirement of statute or regulation; and (x) make any other determination and
take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for the
administration of the Plan.   
         (c) All decisions of the Committee
shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties, including the Company,
the stockholders and the Participants.   
         S  ECTION   5.    Shares Available for Awards.   
  
         (a) Subject to adjustment as
provided below, the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan shall
be 60,000,000 shares, plus any Shares remaining available for grant of awards
under the Company s 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan on the effective date of the
Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing and subject to
adjustment as provided in Section 5(e), (i) no Participant may receive Options
and stock appreciation rights under the Plan in any calendar year that relate to
more than 1,000,000 Shares and (ii) the maximum number of Shares with respect to
which Awards may be made under Sections 7, 8 and 9 is 6,700,000. Awards may be
made under Sections 7 and 9 without regard to such limit if (x) such Awards are
made in satisfaction of Company obligations to employees that would otherwise be
paid in cash or (y) such Awards are issued in connection with the exercise of an
Option or other Award hereunder.   
  6   

(b) If, after the effective date of
the Plan, any Shares covered by an Award, or to which such an Award relates, are
forfeited, or if such an Award otherwise terminates without the delivery of
Shares or of other consideration, then the Shares covered by such Award, or to
which such Award relates, to the extent of any such forfeiture or termination,
shall again be, or shall become, available for issuance under the Plan. For
purposes of this Section 5(b), awards and options granted under any previous
option or long-term incentive plan of the Company (other than a Substitute Award
granted under any such plan) shall be treated as Awards.   
         (c) In the event that any Option or
other Award granted hereunder (other than a Substitute Award) is exercised
through the delivery of Shares, or in the event that withholding tax liabilities
arising from such Option or Award are satisfied by the withholding of Shares by
the Company, the number of Shares available for Awards under the Plan shall be
increased by the number of Shares so surrendered or withheld. For purposes of
this Section 5(c), awards and options granted under any previous option or
long-term incentive plan of the Company (other than a Substitute Award granted
under any such plan) shall be treated as Awards.   
         (d) Any Shares delivered pursuant to
an Award may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Shares or
of treasury Shares.   
         (e) In the event that any dividend
or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities, or
other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split,
reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination,
repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of
warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities of the Company,
or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Shares such that an
adjustment is appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the
benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan,
then the Committee shall equitably adjust any or all of (i) the number and type
of Shares (or other securities or property) which thereafter may be made the
subject of Awards, including the aggregate and individual limits specified in
Section 5(a), (ii) the number and type of Shares (or other securities or
property) subject to outstanding Awards, and (iii) the grant, purchase, or
exercise price with respect to any Award or, if deemed appropriate, make
provision for a cash payment to the holder of an outstanding Award;
 provided, however , that the number of Shares subject to any Award
denominated in Shares shall always be a whole number. Any such adjustment with
respect to a  stock right  outstanding under the Plan, as defined in Section
409A of the Code, shall be made in a manner that is intended to avoid the
imposition of any additional tax or penalty under Section 409A.
  
  7   

S  ECTION   6.    Options.      
       The
Committee is hereby authorized to grant Options to Participants with the
following terms and conditions and with such additional terms and conditions, in
either case not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee
shall determine:   
         (a) The purchase price per Share
under an Option shall be determined by the Committee;    provided   ,    however   , that, except in the case of
Substitute Awards, such purchase price shall not be less than the Fair Market
Value of a Share on the date of grant of such Option.   
         (b) The term of each Option shall be
fixed by the Committee.   
         (c) The Committee shall determine
the time or times at which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part, and
the method or methods by which, and the form or forms, including, without
limitation, cash, Shares, other Awards, or other property, or any combination
thereof, having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the relevant
exercise price, in which, payment of the exercise price with respect thereto may
be made or deemed to have been made.   
         (d) The terms of any Incentive Stock
Option granted under the Plan shall comply in all respects with the provisions
of Section 422 of the Code, or any successor provision thereto, and any
regulations promulgated thereunder.   
         (e) Under no circumstances may stock
option awards be made which provide by their terms for the automatic award of
additional stock options upon the exercise of such awards.   
         S  ECTION   7.    Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units.      
         (a) The Committee is hereby
authorized to grant Awards of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units to
Participants.   
         (b) Shares of Restricted Stock and
Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee
may impose (including, without limitation, any limitation on the right to vote a
Share of Restricted Stock or the right to receive any dividend or other right or
property), which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such
time or times, in such installments or otherwise, as the Committee may deem
appropriate. If the vesting conditions applicable to an Award of Restricted
Stock or Restricted Stock Units relate exclusively to the passage of time and
continued employment or provision of services, or
refraining therefrom, such time period shall consist of not less than 36 months,
except that the foregoing restriction shall not apply to such Awards if they
meet any of the conditions described in Section 5(a)(x) or (y).
  
  8   

(c) Any share of Restricted Stock
granted under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee may deem
appropriate including, without limitation, book-entry registration or issuance
of a stock certificate or certificates. In the event any stock certificate is
issued in respect of shares of Restricted Stock granted under the Plan, such
certificate shall be registered in the name of the Participant and shall bear an
appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions
applicable to such Restricted Stock.   
         (d) Except as otherwise determined
by the Committee, upon termination of employment or cessation of the provision
of services (as determined under criteria established by the Committee) for any
reason during the applicable restriction period, all Shares of Restricted Stock
and all Restricted Stock Units still, in either case, subject to restriction
shall be forfeited and reacquired by the Company;    provided   ,    however   , that the Committee may, when
it finds that a waiver would be in the best interests of the Company, waive in
whole or in part any or all remaining restrictions with respect to Shares of
Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.   
         S  ECTION   8.    Performance Units.      
         (a) The Committee is hereby
authorized to grant Performance Units to Participants.   
         (b) Subject to the terms of the
Plan, a Performance Unit granted under the Plan (i) may be denominated or
payable in cash, Shares (including, without limitation, Restricted Stock), other
securities, other Awards, or other property and (ii) shall confer on the holder
thereof rights valued as determined by the Committee and payable to, or
exercisable by, the holder of the Performance Unit, in whole or in part, upon
the achievement of such performance goals during such performance periods as the
Committee shall establish. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the performance
goals to be achieved during any performance period, the length of any
performance period, the amount of any Performance Unit granted and the amount of
any payment or transfer to be made pursuant to any Performance Unit shall be
determined by the Committee.   
         S  ECTION   9.    Other Stock-based Awards.      
       The
Committee is hereby authorized to grant to Participants such other Awards
(including, without limitation, stock appreciation rights and rights to
dividends and dividend equivalents) that are denominated or payable in, valued
in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Shares
(including, without limitation, securities convertible into Shares) as are
deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Subject
to the terms of the Plan, the Committee shall determine
the terms and conditions of such Awards. Shares or other securities delivered
pursuant to a purchase right granted under this Section 9 shall be purchased for
such consideration, which may be paid by such method or methods and in such form
or forms, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other
Awards, or other property, or any combination thereof, as the Committee shall
determine, the value of which consideration, as established by the Committee,
shall, except in the case of Substitute Awards, not be less than the Fair Market
Value of such Shares or other securities as of the date such purchase right is
granted.   
  9   

S  ECTION   10.    General Provisions Applicable to Awards.      
         (a) Awards shall be granted for no
cash consideration or for such minimal cash consideration as may be required by
applicable law.   
         (b) Awards may, in the discretion of
the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to or in tandem with any
other Award or any award granted under any other plan of the Company. Awards
granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards, or in addition to or in
tandem with awards granted under any other plan of the Company, may be granted
either at the same time as or at a different time from the grant of such other
Awards or awards.   
         (c) Subject to the terms of the
Plan, payments or transfers to be made by the Company upon the grant, exercise
or payment of an Award may be made in such form or forms as the Committee shall
determine including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other
Awards, or other property, or any combination thereof, and may be made in a
single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis, in each
case in accordance with Section 10(h) and rules and procedures established by
the Committee. Such rules and procedures may include, without limitation,
provisions for the payment or crediting of reasonable interest on installment or
deferred payments or the grant or crediting of dividend equivalents in respect
of installment or deferred payments.   
         (d) Unless the Committee shall
otherwise determine, (i) no Award and no right under any such Award, shall be
assignable, alienable, saleable or transferable by a Participant otherwise than
by will or by the laws of descent and distribution;    provided   ,    however   , that, if so determined by the
Committee, a Participant may, in the manner established by the Committee,
designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to exercise the rights of the
Participant, and to receive any property distributable, with respect to any
Award upon the death of the Participant; (ii) each Award, and each right under
any Award, shall be exercisable during the Participant s lifetime only by the
Participant or, if permissible under applicable law, by the Participant s
guardian or legal representative; and (iii) no Award and no right under any such
Award, may be pledged, alienated, attached, or otherwise encumbered, and any
purported pledge, alienation, attachment or encumbrance thereof shall be void
and unenforceable against the Company. The restrictions imposed by this
paragraph shall not apply to any Award which has been
fully exercised, earned or paid, as the case may be, and shall not preclude
forfeiture of an Award in accordance with the terms thereof.   
  10   

(e) All certificates for Shares or
other securities delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award or the exercise
thereof shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as
the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and
other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange
upon which such Shares or other securities are then listed, and any applicable
Federal or state securities laws, and the Committee may cause a legend or
legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such
restrictions.   
         (f) Every Award (other than an
option or stock appreciation right) to a member of the Executive Group that the
Committee determines should meet the deductibility requirements of Section
162(m) of the Code shall include a pre-established formula, such that payment,
retention or vesting of the Award is subject to the achievement by the Company
or any unit thereof during a performance period or periods, as determined by the
Committee, of a level or levels, as determined by the Committee, of one or more
of the following performance measures: (i) Cash Flow, (ii) Cycle Time
Improvement, (iii) Earnings Per Share, (iv) EBITDA, (v) Manufacturing Process
Yield, (vi) Market Share, (vii) Net Revenue Per Employee, (viii) Profit from
Operations, (ix) Profit from Operations Dollar Growth, (x) Profit from
Operations Percentage Growth, (xi) Return on Capital, (xii) Return on Common
Equity, (xiii) Return on Net Assets, (xiv) Revenue Growth or (xv) Total
Stockholder Return. For any Award (other than an option or stock appreciation
right) subject to any such pre-established formula, no more than $5,000,000 can
be paid in satisfaction of such Award to any Participant; provided if such Award
is denominated in shares, the maximum limit shall be 2,000,000 shares in lieu of
such dollar limit.   
         (g) Unless specifically provided to
the contrary in any Award Agreement, upon a Change in Control, all Awards shall
become fully vested and exercisable, and any restrictions applicable to any
Award shall automatically lapse.   
       (h)     Unless
the Committee expressly determines otherwise in the Award Agreement, any Award
of an Option, Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Award in the form of a stock
appreciation right is intended to qualify as a stock right exempt under Section
409A of the Code, and the terms of the Award Agreement and any related rules and
procedures adopted by the Committee shall reflect such intention. Unless the
Committee explicitly determines otherwise in the Award Agreement, with respect
to any other Award that would constitute deferred compensation within the
meaning of Section 409A of the Code, the Award Agreement shall set forth the
time and form of payment and the election rights, if any, of the holder in a
manner that is intended to avoid the imposition of additional taxes and
penalties under Section 409A. The Company makes no representations or covenants that any Award granted under the Plan will
comply with Section 409A.   
  11   

S  ECTION   11.    Amendment and Termination.    
         (a) Except to the extent prohibited
by applicable law and unless otherwise expressly provided in an Award Agreement
or in the Plan, the Board may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue, or terminate
the Plan or any portion thereof at any time;    provided, however,    that no such
amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation or termination shall be made
without (i) stockholder approval if such approval is necessary to comply with
any tax or regulatory requirement for which or with which the Board deems it
necessary or desirable to qualify or comply or (ii) the consent of the affected
Participant, if such action would adversely affect the rights of such
Participant under any outstanding Award. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary herein, the Committee may amend the Plan in such manner as may be
necessary to enable the Plan to achieve its stated purposes in any jurisdiction
outside the United States in a tax-efficient manner and in compliance with local
rules and regulations.   
         (b) The Committee may waive any
conditions or rights under, amend any terms of, or amend, alter, suspend,
discontinue or terminate, any Award theretofore granted, prospectively or
retroactively, without the consent of any relevant Participant or holder or
beneficiary of an Award;    provided,
however,    that no such action shall impair the
rights of any affected Participant or holder or beneficiary under any Award
theretofore granted under the Plan; and    provided further    that, except as
provided in Section 5(e), no such action shall reduce the exercise price of any
Option established at the time of grant thereof. Any such action taken with
respect to an Award intended to be a stock right exempt under Section 409A of
the Code shall be consistent with the requirements for exemption under Section
409A, and any such action taken with respect to an Award that constitutes
deferred compensation under Section 409A shall be in compliance with the
requirements of Section 409A. The Company makes no representations or covenants
that any action taken pursuant to this Section 11(b) will comply with Section
409A.   
         (c) The Committee shall be
authorized to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria
included in, Awards in recognition of changes in applicable laws, regulations or
accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments
are appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or
potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan. Any such action
with respect to an Award intended to be a stock right exempt under Section 409A
of the Code shall be consistent with the requirements for exemption under
Section 409A, and any such action taken with respect to an Award that
constitutes deferred compensation under Section 409A shall be in compliance with
the requirements of Section 409A. However, the Company makes no representations
or covenants that Awards will comply with Section 409A.   
  12   

(d) The Committee may correct any
defect, supply any omission, or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any
Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to carry the Plan
into effect.   
         S  ECTION   12.    Miscellaneous.      
         (a) No employee, independent
contractor, Participant or other person shall have any claim to be granted any
Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of
employees, independent contractors, Participants, or holders or beneficiaries of
Awards under the Plan. The terms and conditions of Awards need not be the same
with respect to each recipient.   
         (b) The Committee may delegate to
  another committee of the Board of Directors,
  one or more officers or managers of the Company,
or a committee of such officers or managers, the authority, subject to such
terms and limitations as the Committee shall determine, to grant Awards to, or
to cancel, modify, waive rights with respect to, alter, discontinue, suspend or
terminate Awards held by, employees who are not officers or directors of the
Company for purposes of Section 16 of the Exchange Act;    provided, however,    that any
delegation to management shall conform with the requirements of the General
Corporation Law of Delaware, as in effect from time to time.   
         (c) The Company shall be authorized
to withhold from any Award granted or any payment due or transfer made under any
Award or under the Plan or from any compensation or other amount owing to a
Participant the amount (in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, or
other property) of withholding taxes due in respect of an Award, its exercise,
or any payment or transfer under such Award or under the Plan and to take such
other action (including, without limitation, providing for elective payment of
such amounts in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property
by the Participant) as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy
the required tax withholding based on the minimum statutory withholding rates.
  
         (d) Nothing contained in the Plan
shall prevent the Company from adopting or continuing in effect other or
additional compensation arrangements, and such arrangements may be either
generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.   
         (e) The grant of an Award shall not
be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ or
service of the Company or any Affiliate. Further, the Company or the applicable
Affiliate may at any time dismiss a Participant from employment or terminate the
services of an independent contractor, free from any liability, or any claim
under the Plan, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in any Award
Agreement or in any other agreement binding the parties.   
  13   

(f) If any provision of the Plan or
any Award is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in
any jurisdiction, or as to any person or Award, or would disqualify the Plan or
any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Committee, such provision shall
be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or if it cannot be
so construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Committee,
materially altering the intent of the Plan or the Award, such provision shall be
stricken as to such jurisdiction, person or Award, and the remainder of the Plan
and any such Award shall remain in full force and effect.   
         (g) Neither the Plan nor any Award
shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a
fiduciary relationship between the Company and a Participant or any other
person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from
the Company pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right
of any unsecured general creditor of the Company.   
         (h) No fractional Shares shall be
issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award, and the Committee shall
determine whether cash, other securities or other property shall be paid or
transferred in lieu of any fractional Shares, or whether such fractional Shares
or any rights thereto shall be canceled, terminated or otherwise eliminated.
  
         S  ECTION   13.    Effective Date of Plan.      
       The Plan
shall be effective as of the date of its approval by the stockholders of the
Company.   
         S  ECTION   14.    Term of the Plan.      
       No Award
shall be granted under the Plan after the tenth anniversary of the effective
date. However, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in an
applicable Award Agreement, any Award theretofore granted may extend beyond such
date, and the authority of the Committee to amend, alter, adjust, suspend,
discontinue, or terminate any such Award, or to waive any conditions or rights
under any such Award, and the authority of the Board to amend the Plan, shall
extend beyond such date.   
  14   

</EX-10.E>

<EX-10.F>
 3
 exhibit_10-f.htm
 TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2003 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AS AMENDED OCTOBER 16, 2008

Exhibit 10(f)   
    TEXAS INSTRUMENTS
2003 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN    
    As Amended October
16, 2008      
          S ECTION  1.   Purpose  .     
         The Texas Instruments 2003 Long-Term
Incentive Plan is designed to enhance the ability of the Company to attract and
retain exceptionally qualified individuals and to encourage them to acquire a
proprietary interest in the growth and performance of the Company.    
          S  ECTION    2.
 Definitions .      
         As used in the Plan, the following
terms shall have the meanings set forth below:    
          (a)   Affiliate   shall mean
(i) any entity that, directly or indirectly, is controlled by the Company or
(ii) any entity in which the Company has a significant equity interest, in
either case as determined by the Committee.     
          (b)   Award   shall mean any
Option, award of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Unit or
Other Stock-Based Award granted under the Plan.     
          (c)   Award Agreement   shall
mean any written agreement, contract or other instrument or document evidencing
any Award granted under the Plan, which may, but need not, be executed or
acknowledged by a Participant.     
          (d)   Board   shall mean the
board of directors of the Company.     
          (e)   Code   shall mean the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.     
          (f)   Committee   shall mean a
committee of the Board designated by the Board to administer the Plan. Unless
otherwise determined by the Board, the Compensation Committee of the Board shall
be the Committee under the Plan.     
          (g)   Company   shall mean
Texas Instruments Incorporated, together with any successor
thereto.     
          (h)   Exchange Act   shall mean
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended from time to
time.     
   1     

(i)   Executive Officer   shall
mean an individual who is an executive officer of the Company as defined by Rule
3b-7 under the Exchange Act.     
          (j)   Fair Market Value   shall
mean, with respect to any property (including, without limitation, any Shares or
other securities) the fair market value of such property determined by such
methods or procedures as shall be established from time to time by the
Committee.     
              (k)   Incentive
Stock Option   shall mean an option that meets the requirements of
Section 422 of the Code, or any successor provision thereto.     
              (l)   Inducement
Award   shall mean an Award granted to an individual to induce such
individual to accept employment with the Company or an Affiliate to provide
services to the Company or an Affiliate.     
          (m)   Management  
shall mean all (i) officers of the Company, including Executive Officers, and
(ii) employees of the Company in Pay Range 1 and 2.   
          (n)   Option   shall
mean an option granted under Section 6.     
          (o)   Other Stock-Based Award  
shall mean any right granted under Section 9.     
          (p)   Participant   shall mean
an individual granted an Award under the Plan.     
          (q)   Performance Unit   shall
mean any right granted under Section 8.     
          (r)   Plan   shall mean this
Texas Instruments 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan.     
          (s)   Restricted Stock   shall
mean any Share granted under Section 7.     
          (t)   Restricted Stock Unit  
shall mean a contractual right granted under Section 7 that is denominated in
Shares, each of which represents a right to receive the value of a Share (or a
percentage of such value, which percentage may be higher than 100%) upon the
terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and the applicable Award
agreement.     
          (u)   Shares   shall mean
shares of the common stock of the Company, $1.00 par value.   
   2     

(v)   Substitute Awards   shall
mean Awards granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards
previously granted by a company acquired by the Company or with which the
Company combines.     
          S  ECTION    3.   Eligibility  .      
          (a) Any non-Management individual
who is employed by the Company or any Affiliate, and any individual who provides
services to the Company or any Affiliate as an independent contractor shall be
eligible to be selected to receive an Award under the Plan.   
          (b) An individual who has agreed to
accept non-Management employment by, or to provide services to, the Company or
an Affiliate shall be deemed to be eligible for Awards hereunder as of the date
of such agreement.   
          (c) Directors are not eligible to
receive Awards hereunder.   
          (d) Holders of options and other
types of equity-based awards granted by a company acquired by the Company or
with which the Company combines are eligible for grant of Substitute Awards
hereunder in connection with such acquisition or combination transaction,
provided that such holders are not Management or Directors at the time of
grant.   
          (e) Awards may be granted to the
trustee of a trust or the appropriate legal representative of a similar entity
or arrangement established for the benefit of the individuals specified in
paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) above, if necessary to realize tax, accounting,
regulatory or other benefits in a jurisdiction other than the United
States.   
          S  ECTION    4.   Administration  .      
          (a) The Plan shall be administered
by the Committee. The Committee shall be appointed by the Board and shall
consist of not less than three directors. The Board may designate one or more
directors as alternate members of the Committee who may replace any absent or
disqualified member at any meeting of the Committee. The Committee may issue
rules and regulations for administration of the Plan. It shall meet at such
times and places as it may determine. A majority of the members of the Committee
shall constitute a quorum.   
   3     

(b) Subject to the terms of the Plan
and applicable law, the Committee shall have full power and authority to: (i)
designate Participants; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards (including
Substitute Awards) to be granted to each Participant under the Plan; (iii)
determine the number of Shares to be covered by (or with respect to which payments, rights,
or other matters are to be calculated in connection with) Awards; (iv) determine
the terms and conditions of any Award, including, but not limited to, the
inclusion of a provision for the recovery of profits realized from the exercise
of an Award if the Participant competes with the Company or becomes employed by
a competitor of the Company; (v) determine whether, to what extent, and under
what circumstances Awards may be settled or exercised in cash, Shares, other
securities, other Awards, or other property, or canceled, forfeited or
suspended, and the method or methods by which Awards may be settled, exercised,
canceled, forfeited or suspended; (vi) determine, consistent with Section 10(f),
whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other
securities, other Awards, other property, and other amounts payable with respect
to an Award under the Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the
election of the holder thereof or of the Committee; (vii) interpret and
administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to, or Award made
under, the Plan; (viii) establish, amend, suspend or waive such rules and
regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper
administration of the Plan; (ix) determine whether and to what extent Awards
should comply or continue to comply with any requirement of statute or
regulation, adopt rules, procedures, and sub-plans to the Plan relating to the
operation and administration of the Plan to accommodate the specific
requirements of local laws and procedures in foreign jurisdictions; and (x) make
any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems
necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan.   
          (c) All decisions of the Committee
shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties, including the Company,
the stockholders and the Participants.   
          S  ECTION    5.   Shares Available
for Awards.          
          (a) Subject to adjustment as
provided below, the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan shall
be 240,000,000 shares.   
          (b) Any Shares underlying Substitute
Awards or Inducement Awards shall not be counted against the Shares available
for issuance under the Plan.   
          (c) If, after the effective date of
the Plan, any Shares covered by an Award (other than a Substitute Award or an
Inducement Award), or to which such an Award relates, are forfeited, or if such
an Award otherwise terminates without the delivery of Shares or of other
consideration or without delivery of the full number of shares underlying such
Award, then the Shares covered by such Award, or to which such Award relates, to
the extent of any such forfeiture or termination, shall again be, or shall
become, available for issuance under the Plan.   
   4     

(d) In the event that any Option or
other Award granted hereunder (other than a Substitute Award or an Inducement
Award) is exercised through the delivery of Shares, or in the event that
withholding tax liabilities arising from such Option or Award are satisfied by
the withholding of Shares by the Company, the number of Shares available for
Awards under the Plan shall be increased by the number of Shares so surrendered
or withheld.   
          (e) Any Shares delivered pursuant to
an Award may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Shares or
of treasury Shares.   
          (f) In the event that any dividend
or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities or
other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split,
reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination,
repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of
warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities of the Company,
or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Shares such that an
adjustment is appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the
benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan,
then the Committee shall equitably adjust any or all of (i) the number and type
of Shares (or other securities or property) which thereafter may be made the
subject of Awards, (ii) the number and type of Shares (or other securities or
property) subject to outstanding Awards, and (iii) the grant, purchase, or
exercise price with respect to any Award or, if deemed appropriate, the
Committee may make provision for a cash payment to the holder of an outstanding
Award; provided, however, that the number of Shares subject to any Award
denominated in Shares shall always be a whole number. Any such adjustment with
respect to a  stock right  outstanding under the Plan, as defined in Section
409A of the Code, shall be made in a manner that is intended to avoid the
imposition of any additional tax or penalty under Section
409A.   
          S  ECTION    6.   Options  .      
         The Committee is hereby authorized
to grant Options to eligible individuals as designated in Section 3 with the
following terms and conditions and with such additional terms and conditions, in
either case not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee
shall determine:    
          (a) The purchase price per Share
under an Option shall be determined by the Committee;  provided ,
 however , that, except in the case of Substitute Awards, such purchase
price shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of
grant of such Option.     
          (b) The term of each Option shall be
fixed by the Committee.   
   5     

(c) The Committee shall determine
the time or times at which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part, and
the method or methods by which, and the form or forms, including, without
limitation, cash, Shares, other Awards, or other property, or any combination
thereof, having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the relevant
exercise price, in which, payment of the exercise price with respect thereto may
be made or deemed to have been made.   
          (d) Notwithstanding any provision of
the Plan to the contrary, no incentive stock options (ISOs) shall be granted
under this Plan.   
          (e) Under no circumstances may stock
option awards be made that provide by their terms for the automatic award of
additional stock options upon the exercise of such awards.   
          S  ECTION    7.   Restricted Stock
and Restricted Stock Units.          
          (a) The Committee is hereby
authorized to grant Awards of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units to
eligible individuals as designated in Section 3.   
          (b) Shares of Restricted Stock and
Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee
may impose (including, without limitation, any limitation on the right to vote a
Share of Restricted Stock or the right to receive any dividend or other right or
property), which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such
time or times, in such installments or otherwise, as the Committee may deem
appropriate.   
          (c) Any share of Restricted Stock
granted under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee may deem
appropriate including, without limitation, book-entry registration or issuance
of a stock certificate or certificates. In the event any stock certificate is
issued in respect of shares of Restricted Stock granted under the Plan, such
certificate shall be registered in the name of the Participant and shall bear an
appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions
applicable to such Restricted Stock.   
          (d) Except as otherwise determined
by the Committee, upon termination of employment or cessation of the provision
of services (as determined under criteria established by the Committee) for any
reason during the applicable restriction period, all Shares of Restricted Stock
and all Restricted Stock Units still, in either case, subject to restriction
shall be forfeited and reacquired by the Company;  provided ,
 however , that the Committee may, when it finds that a waiver would be in
the best interests of the Company, waive in whole or in part any or all
remaining restrictions with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted
Stock Units.     
   6     

S  ECTION    8.   Performance
Units  .      
          (a) The Committee is hereby
authorized to grant Performance Units to eligible individuals as designated in
Section 3.   
          (b) Subject to the terms of the
Plan, a Performance Unit granted under the Plan (i) may be denominated or
payable in cash, Shares (including, without limitation, Restricted Stock), other
securities, other Awards, or other property and (ii) shall confer on the holder
thereof rights valued as determined by the Committee and payable to, or
exercisable by, the holder of the Performance Unit, in whole or in part, upon
the achievement of such performance goals during such performance periods as the
Committee shall establish. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the performance
goals to be achieved during any performance period, the length of any
performance period, the amount of any Performance Unit granted and the amount of
any payment or transfer to be made pursuant to any Performance Unit shall be
determined by the Committee.   
          S  ECTION    9.   Other
Stock-based Awards.          
         The Committee is hereby authorized
to grant to eligible individuals as designated in Section 3 such other Awards
(including, without limitation, stock appreciation rights and rights to
dividends and dividend equivalents) that are denominated or payable in, valued
in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Shares
(including, without limitation, securities convertible into Shares) as are
deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Subject
to the terms of the Plan, the Committee shall determine the terms and conditions
of such Awards. Shares or other securities delivered pursuant to a purchase
right granted under this Section 9 shall be purchased for such consideration,
which may be paid by such method or methods and in such form or forms,
including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, or
other property, or any combination thereof, as the Committee shall determine,
the value of which consideration, as established by the Committee, shall, except
in the case of Substitute Awards, not be less than the Fair Market Value of such
Shares or other securities as of the date such purchase right is
granted.    
          S  ECTION    10.   General
Provisions Applicable to Awards.          
          (a) Awards shall be granted for no
cash consideration or for such minimal cash consideration as may be required by
applicable law.   
   7     

(b) Awards may, in the discretion of
the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to or in tandem with any
other Award or any award granted under any other plan of the Company. Awards
granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards, or in addition to or in
tandem with awards granted under any other plan of the Company, may be granted
either at the same time as or at a different time from the grant of such other
Awards or awards.   
          (c) Subject to the terms of the
Plan, payments or transfers to be made by the Company upon the grant, exercise
or payment of an Award may be made in such form or forms as the Committee shall
determine including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other
Awards, or other property, or any combination thereof, and may be made in a
single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis, in each
case in accordance with Section 10(f) and rules and procedures established by
the Committee. Such rules and procedures may include, without limitation,
provisions for the payment or crediting of reasonable interest on installment or
deferred payments or the grant or crediting of dividend equivalents in respect
of installment or deferred payments.   
          (d) Unless the Committee shall
otherwise determine, (i) no Award and no right under any such Award, shall be
assignable, alienable, saleable or transferable by a Participant otherwise than
by will or by the laws of descent and distribution;  provided ,
 however , that, if so determined by the Committee, a Participant may, in
the manner established by the Committee, designate a beneficiary or
beneficiaries to exercise the rights of the Participant, and to receive any
property distributable, with respect to any Award upon the death of the
Participant; (ii) each Award, and each right under any Award, shall be
exercisable during the Participant s lifetime only by the Participant or, if
permissible under applicable law, by the Participant s guardian or legal
representative; and (iii) no Award and no right under any such Award, may be
pledged, alienated, attached, or otherwise encumbered, and any purported pledge,
alienation, attachment or encumbrance thereof shall be void and unenforceable
against the Company. The restrictions imposed by this paragraph shall not apply
to any Award which has been fully exercised, earned or paid, as the case may be,
and shall not preclude forfeiture of an Award in accordance with the terms
thereof.     
          (e) All certificates for Shares or
other securities delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award or the exercise
thereof shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as
the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and
other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange
upon which such Shares or other securities are then listed, and any applicable
federal or state securities laws, and the Committee may cause a legend or
legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such
restrictions.   
   8     

(f) Unless the Committee expressly
determines otherwise in the Award Agreement, any Award of an Option, Restricted
Stock or Other Stock-Based Award in the form of a stock appreciation right is
intended to qualify as a stock right exempt under Section 409A of the Code, and
the terms of the Award Agreement and any related rules and procedures adopted by
the Committee shall reflect such intention. Unless the Committee explicitly
determines otherwise in the Award Agreement, with respect to any other Award
that would constitute deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A
of the Code, the Award Agreement shall set forth the time and form of payment
and election rights, if any, of the holder in a manner that is intended to avoid
the imposition of additional taxes and penalties under Section 409A. The Company
makes no representations or covenants that any Award granted under the Plan will
comply with Section 409A.   
          S  ECTION    11.   Amendment and
Termination.          
          (a) Except to the extent prohibited
by applicable law and unless otherwise expressly provided in an Award Agreement
or in the Plan, the Board may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue, or terminate
the Plan or any portion thereof at any time;  provided, however,  that no
such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation or termination shall be
made without the consent of the affected Participant, if such action would
adversely affect the rights of such Participant under any outstanding Award.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may amend the
Plan in such manner as may be necessary to enable the Plan to achieve its stated
purposes in any jurisdiction outside the United States in a tax-efficient manner
and in compliance with local rules and regulations.     
          (b) The Committee may waive any
conditions or rights under, amend any terms of, or amend, alter, suspend,
discontinue or terminate, any Award theretofore granted, prospectively or
retroactively, without the consent of any relevant Participant or holder or
beneficiary of an Award;  provided, however,  that any such action that
would adversely affect the rights of any Participant or holder or beneficiary
under any Award theretofore granted under the Plan shall not to that extent be
effective without the consent of such affected Participant, holder or
beneficiary; and  provided further  that, except as provided in Section
5(f), no such action shall reduce the exercise price of any Option established
at the time of grant thereof. Any such action taken with respect to an Award
intended to be a stock right exempt under Section 409A of the Code shall be
consistent with the requirements for exemption under Section 409A, and any such
action taken with respect to an Award that constitutes deferred compensation
under Section 409A shall be in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A.
The Company makes no representations or covenants that any action taken pursuant
to this Section 11(b) will comply with Section 409A.     
   9     

(c) The Committee shall be
authorized to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria
included in, Awards in recognition of changes in applicable laws, regulations or
accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments
are appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or
potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan. Any such action
taken with respect to an Award intended to be a stock right exempt under Section
409A of the Code shall be consistent with the requirements for exemption under
Section 409A, and any such action taken with respect to an Award that
constitutes deferred compensation under Section 409A shall be in compliance with
requirements of Section 409A. However, the Company makes no representations or
covenants that Awards will comply with Section 409A.   
          (d) The Committee may correct any
defect, supply any omission, or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any
Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to carry the Plan
into effect.   
          S  ECTION    12.   Miscellaneous.          
          (a) No employee, independent
contractor, Participant or other person shall have any claim to be granted any
Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of
employees, independent contractors, Participants, or holders or beneficiaries of
Awards under the Plan. The terms and conditions of Awards need not be the same
with respect to each recipient.   
          (b) The Committee may delegate to
another committee of the Board, one or more officers or managers of the Company,
or a committee of such officers or managers, the authority, subject to such
terms and limitations as the Committee shall determine, to grant Awards to
eligible individuals or to cancel, modify, waive rights with respect to, alter,
discontinue, suspend or terminate Awards held by Participants;  provided,
however,  that any delegation to management shall conform with the
requirements of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, as in effect from time
to time.     
          (c) The Company shall be authorized
to withhold from any Award granted or any payment due or transfer made under any
Award or under the Plan or from any compensation or other amount owing to a
Participant the amount (in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, or
other property) of withholding taxes due in respect of an Award, its exercise,
or any payment or transfer under such Award or under the Plan and to take such
other action (including, without limitation, providing for elective payment of
such amounts in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property
by the Participant) as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy
the required tax withholding.   
   10     

(d) Nothing contained in the Plan
shall prevent the Company from adopting or continuing in effect other or
additional compensation arrangements, and such arrangements may be either
generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.   
          (e) The grant of an Award shall not
be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ or
service of the Company or any Affiliate. Further, the Company or the applicable
Affiliate may at any time dismiss a Participant from employment or terminate the
services of an independent contractor, free from any liability, or any claim
under the Plan, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in any Award
Agreement or in any other agreement binding the parties.   
          (f) If any provision of the Plan or
any Award is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in
any jurisdiction, or as to any person or Award, or would disqualify the Plan or
any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Committee, such provision shall
be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or if it cannot be
so construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Committee,
materially altering the intent of the Plan or the Award, such provision shall be
stricken as to such jurisdiction, person or Award, and the remainder of the Plan
and any such Award shall remain in full force and effect.   
          (g) Neither the Plan nor any Award
shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a
fiduciary relationship between the Company and a Participant or any other
person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from
the Company pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right
of any unsecured general creditor of the Company.   
          (h) No fractional Shares shall be
issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award, and the Committee shall
determine whether cash, other securities or other property shall be paid or
transferred in lieu of any fractional Shares, or whether such fractional Shares
or any rights thereto shall be canceled, terminated or otherwise
eliminated.   
          S  ECTION    13.   Effective Date
of Plan.          
          The Plan shall be effective as of
the date of its approval by the Board.   
   11     

S  ECTION    14.   Term of the
Plan  .      
         No Award shall be granted under the
Plan after the tenth anniversary of the effective date. However, unless
otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in an applicable Award Agreement,
any Award theretofore granted may extend beyond such date, and the authority of
the Committee to amend, alter, adjust, suspend, discontinue, or terminate any
such Award, or to waive any conditions or rights under any such Award, and the
authority of the Board to amend the Plan, shall extend beyond such
date.    
   12     

</EX-10.F>

<EX-10.G>
 4
 exhibit_10-g.htm
 TEXAS INSTRUMENTS EXECUTIVE OFFICER PERFORMANCE PLAN AS AMENDED OCTOBER 16, 200

Exhibit 10(g)   
   TEXAS INSTRUMENTS EXECUTIVE OFFICER
PERFORMANCE PLAN    
   As Amended October 16, 2008
   
  The purpose of the Plan is to promote the
success of the Company by providing performance-based compensation for executive
officers.   
  For purposes of the Plan, unless otherwise
indicated, the term  TI  shall mean Texas Instruments Incorporated,  Company 
shall mean TI and its subsidiaries, and  Board  shall mean the Board of
Directors of TI.   
  The Plan is intended to provide qualified
performance-based compensation in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and regulations thereunder ( Code ) and will
be so interpreted.   
   Covered Employees    
  The executive officers of TI (within the
meaning of Rule 3b-7 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended from
time to time) as of March 30 of each calendar year ( performance year ) shall
receive awards under the Plan for such performance year. An individual who
becomes an executive officer after March 30 and on or before October 1 of a
performance year shall receive an award as provided below.   
   Administration of Plan    
  The Plan shall be administered by a
Committee of the Board which shall be known as the Compensation Committee (the
 Committee ). The Committee shall be appointed by a majority of the whole Board
and shall consist of not less than three directors. The Board may designate one
or more directors as alternate members of the Committee, who may replace any
absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the Committee. A director may
serve as a member or alternate member of the Committee only during periods in
which the director is an  outside director  as described in Section 162(m) of
the Code. The Committee shall have full power and authority to construe,
interpret and administer the Plan. It may issue rules and regulations for
administration of the Plan. It shall meet at such times and places as it may
determine. A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum
and all decisions of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding upon
all parties, including the Company, the stockholders and the employees.
  
  The Committee shall have the full and
exclusive right to make reductions in awards under the Plan. In determining
whether to reduce any award and the amount of any reduction, the Committee shall
take into consideration such factors as the Committee shall determine.
  
    1     

Expenses of Administration
   
  The expenses of the administration of this
Plan, including the interest provided in the Plan, shall be borne by the
Company.  
   Amendments    
  The Board may, at any time and from time
to time, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any part thereof as it
may deem proper and in the best interests of the Company, provided, however,
that no such action shall (i) affect or impair the rights under any award
theretofore granted under the Plan, except that in the case of a covered
employee employed outside the United States the Committee may vary the
provisions of the Plan as it may deem appropriate to conform with local laws,
practices and procedures or (ii) increase the maximum amount of any award above
the amount described below.   
   Awards    
  Subject to the Committee s discretion to
reduce such awards, each covered employee shall be entitled to an award for each
performance year equal to 0.5% of the Company s consolidated income from
continuing operations before (i) provision for income taxes, (ii) awards under
the Plan, (iii) any pretax gain or loss exceeding $25 million recognized for the
year related to divestiture of a business and (iv) any write-off of in process
research and development expenses exceeding $25 million associated with an
acquisition, as determined and reported to the Committee by TI s independent
auditors ( Consolidated Income ).   
  An individual who becomes an executive
officer after March 30 and on or before October 1 of a performance year shall be
entitled to a prorated award for that performance year which shall be 0.5% of
the Company s Consolidated Income, as defined above, for such performance year
multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete
calendar quarters of such year following the date on which the individual
becomes an executive officer and the denominator of which is 4. Such prorated
award shall be subject to the Committee s discretion to reduce awards.
  
   Scope of the Plan    
  Nothing in this Plan shall be construed as
precluding or prohibiting the Company from establishing or maintaining other
bonus or compensation arrangements, which may be generally applicable or
applicable only to selected employees or officers.   
   Report of Awards; Committee Discretion
to Reduce    
  As soon as practicable after the end of
each performance year, TI s independent
auditors shall
determine and report to the Committee and the Committee shall certify the amount
of each award for that year under the provisions of this Plan.   
    2     

The Committee, in its sole discretion,
based on any factors the Committee deems appropriate, may reduce the award to
any covered employee in any year (including reduction to zero if the Committee
so determines). The Committee shall make a determination of whether and to what
extent to reduce awards under the Plan for each year at such time or times
following the close of the performance year as the Committee shall deem
appropriate. The reduction in the amount of an award to any covered employee for
a performance year shall have no effect on the amount of the award to any other
covered employee for such year.   
   Payment of Awards    
  Except to the extent deferred pursuant to
the terms and provisions of the TI Deferred Compensation Plan or as provided in
the next paragraph, awards and any installments thereof shall be paid in a cash
lump sum as soon as practicable after the amount of the awards has been
determined, but in no event later than March 15 of the year following the
performance year.   
  The Committee may direct the awards to the
covered employees or any of them for any year to be paid in a single amount or
in installments of equal or varying amounts or may defer payment of any awards
and may prescribe such terms and conditions concerning payment of awards as it
deems appropriate, including completion of specific periods of employment with
the Company, provided that such terms and conditions are not more favorable to a
covered employee than those expressly set forth in the Plan. In the event the
Committee designates a time or form of payment of any award different from the
time and form specified in the preceding paragraph, the Committee s designation
shall be in writing and made not later than a time that will meet the
requirements of Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-2(a)(2). The Committee may determine
that interest will be payable with respect to any payment of any award. The
Committee may at any time amend any such direction or amend or delete any such
terms and conditions if the Committee deems it appropriate, provided that any
such change will be made in a manner that will meet the requirements for
subsequent elections of Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-2(b) and no such change shall
accelerate any payment except as permitted by Section 409A of the Code. The
Committee s actions under this paragraph shall be subject to and in accordance
with the rules governing qualified performance based compensation in Section
162(m) of the Code.   
  Payments of awards to covered employees
who are employees of subsidiaries of the Company shall be paid directly by such
subsidiaries.   
    3     

</EX-10.G>

<EX-10.K>
 5
 exhibit_10-k.htm
 TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2003 DIRECTOR COMPENSATION PLAN AS AMENDED OCTOBER 16, 2008

Exhibit 10(k)   
   TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2003 DIRECTOR COMPENSATION
PLAN    
   As Amended October 16,
2008      
   SECTION 1. PURPOSE.      
  The Texas Instruments 2003 Director
Compensation Plan is designed to attract and retain qualified individuals to
serve as directors of the Company and to increase the proprietary and vested
interest of such directors in the growth and performance of the
Company.  
   SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS.
     
  As used in the Plan, the following terms
shall have the meanings set forth below:  

(a)  
            
        Account 
         means a Cash Account or Stock Unit
      Account established under Section 8 of the Plan.   

(b)  
      
        Administrator 
         means the Board or a committee of
      directors designated by the Board to administer the Plan.   

(c)  
      
        Award 
         means any Option, Restricted Stock Unit
      or other stock-based award under the Plan.   

(d)  
      
        Award Agreement 
         means any written agreement, contract
      or other instrument or document evidencing any Award granted under the
      Plan, which may, but need not, be executed or acknowledged by a
      Director.   

(e)  
      
        Board 
         means the Board of Directors of the
      Company, as constituted from time to time.   

(f)  
      
        Cash Account 
         means the bookkeeping accounts
      established pursuant to Section 8(b)(i) on behalf of each Director who
      elects pursuant to Section 8(b) to have any of his or her Deferred
      Compensation credited to a cash account.   

(g)  
      
        Change in Control 
         means an event when (i) any Person,
      alone or together with its Affiliates and Associates or otherwise, shall
      become an Acquiring Person otherwise than pursuant to a transaction or
      agreement approved by the Board prior to the time the Acquiring Person
      became such, or (ii) a majority of the Board shall change within any
      24-month period unless the election or the nomination for election by the
      Company s stockholders of each new director has been approved by a vote of
      at least a majority of the directors then still in office who were
      directors at the beginning of the period. For the purposes hereof, the
      terms Person, Affiliates, Associates and Acquiring Person shall have the
      meanings given to such terms in the Rights Agreement dated as of June 17,
      1998 between the Company and Harris Trust and Savings Bank.
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Restricted Stock Unit granted under
      this Plan is or becomes subject to Section 409(A) of the Code, then with
      respect to such Restricted Stock Unit  Change in Control  means a change
      in control event as to the Company, as defined in Section 409(A) of the
      Code and the regulations thereunder.   

(h)  
      
        Code 
         means the Internal Revenue Code of
      1986, as amended.    
  1     

(i)  
            
        Company 
         means Texas Instruments Incorporated,
      together with any successor thereto.   

(j)  
      
        Deferred Cash
      Compensation     means that portion of any
      Director s Eligible Compensation that is payable in cash and that he or
      she elects pursuant to Section 8(a) to be deferred in accordance with this
      Plan.   

(k)  
      
        Deferred
      Compensation     means that portion of any
      Director s Eligible Compensation that he or she elects pursuant to Section
      8(a) to be deferred in accordance with this Plan.   

(l)  
      
        Director 
         means a member of the Board who is not
      an employee of the Company or any subsidiary thereof.   

(m)  
      
       Eligible
      Compensation  means (i) the cash portion of any compensation payable by
      the Company to a Director for his or her services as a Director but shall
      not include any reimbursement by the Company of expenses incurred by a
      Director incidental to attendance at a meeting of the Company s
      stockholders, the Board, or any committee of the Board, or of any other
      expense incurred on behalf of the Company, (ii) any Restricted Stock Units
      granted by the Company after November 30, 2006, to a Director for his or
      her services as a Director, and (iii) any dividend equivalents paid on
      Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 7(b).   

(n)  
      
        Fair Market Value 
         means the closing price of the Shares
      on the date specified (or, if there is no trading on the New York Stock
      Exchange on such date, then on the first previous date on which there is
      such trading) as reported in  New York Stock Exchange Composite
      Transactions  in  The Wall Street Journal  or by WSJ.com or Bloomberg
      L.P.   ,    or if unavailable, then by reference to any other source as may be
      deemed appropriate by the Administrator.   

(o)  
      
        G SR
      Committee     means the Governance and
      Stockholder Relations Committee of the Board or any successor
      committee.   

(p)  
      
        Option 
         means an option granted under Section
      6.   

(q)  
      
        Participant 
         means an individual who has received an
      Award or established an Account under the Plan.   

(r)  
      
        Plan 
         means this Texas Instruments 2003
      Director Compensation Plan.   

(s)  
      
        Post-2004 Account 
         means a Cash Account or Stock Unit
      Account containing amounts earned and deferred on or after January 1,
      2005, and Restricted Stock Units granted after November 30, 2006, the
      receipt of which a Director has elected to defer.   

(t)  
      
        Pre-2005 Account 
         means a Cash Account or Stock Unit
      Account containing amounts earned and deferred prior to January 1,
      2005.   

(u)  
      
        Restricted Stock
      Unit     means a contractual right granted
      under Section 7 that is denominated in Shares, each of which represents a
      right to receive a Share upon the terms and conditions set forth in the
      Plan and the applicable Award Agreement.    
  2   

(v)  
            
        Secretary     means the Secretary
      of the Company.   

(w)  
      
          Separation from Service 
         means a termination of services
      provided by a Participant as a member of the Board or of the board of
      directors of any other member of the controlled group of corporations (as
      defined in Section 414(b) of the Code) which includes the Company
      (referred to hereinafter for purposes of this Section 2(w) as the Company,
      and such other controlled group members are referred to as  ERISA
      Affiliates ), whether such termination is voluntary or involuntary, as
      determined by the Administrator in accordance with Treas. Reg.
       1.409A-1(h). In determining whether a Participant has experienced a
      Separation from Service as a member of the Board or of a board of
      directors of an ERISA Affiliate, the following provisions shall
      apply:   

(i)  
            
      If a Director also
      provides services to the Company or any ERISA Affiliate as an employee at
      the time of his Separation from Service as a member of the Board, the
      services such Participant provides as an employee shall not be taken into
      account in determining whether the Participant has a Separation from
      Service as a Director for purposes of this Plan (provided that this Plan
      is not, at the time of such determination, aggregated under Treas. Reg.
       1.409A-1(c)(2)(ii) with any plan in which the Participant participates as
      an employee).   

(ii)  
      
      A Participant shall be
      considered to have experienced a termination of services when the facts
      and circumstances indicate that the Participant, the Company and each
      ERISA Affiliate reasonably anticipate that the Participant will perform no
      further services for the Company or any ERISA Affiliate as a member of the
      Board (or the board of directors of any ERISA Affiliate), and the
      Participant s term as a member of the Board has expired.   

(iii)  
      
      If a Director is also
      providing additional services to the Company as an independent contractor,
      he or she cannot have a Separation from Service for purposes of Section
      409A until he or she has separated from service both as a Director and as
      an independent contractor.   

(x)  
      
        Shares 
         shall mean shares of the common stock
      of the Company, $1.00 par value.    
  3   

(y)  
            
        Specified
      Employee    means any Participant who is determined to
      be a  key employee  (as defined under Section 416(i) of the Code without
      regard to paragraph (5) thereof) for the applicable period, as determined
      annually by the Administrator in accordance with Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(i).
      In determining whether a Participant is a Specified Employee, the
      following provisions shall apply:    

(i)  
      
      Identification of
      the individuals who fall within the above-referenced definition of  key
      employee  shall be based upon the 12-month period ending on each December
      31 st  (referred to below as the  identification date ). In
      applying the applicable provisions of Code Section 416(i) to identify such
      individuals,  compensation  shall be determined in accordance with Treas.
      Reg.  1.415(c)2(a) without regard to (i) any safe harbor provided in
      Treas. Reg.  1.415(c)-2(d), (ii) any of the special timing rules provided
      in Treas. Reg.  1.415(c)-2(e), and (iii) any of the special rules provided
      in Treas. Reg.  1.415(c)-2(g); and   

(ii)  
      
      Each Participant who
      is among the individuals identified as a  key employee  in accordance with
      part (i) of this Section 2(y) shall be treated as a Specified Employee for
      purposes of this Plan if such Participant experiences a Separation from
      Service during the 12-month period that begins on the April 1 st 
      following the applicable identification date.   

(z)  
      
        Stock
      Unit Account     means the bookkeeping
      accounts established, pursuant to Section 8(b)(ii), on behalf of each
      Director who elects, pursuant to Section 8(b), to have any of his or her
      Deferred Cash Compensation credited to a stock unit account.   

(aa)  
      
        Unforeseeable Emergency     means
      a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from (i) an
      illness or accident of the Participant or the Participant s spouse,
      beneficiary, or dependent (as defined in Section 152 of the Code, without
      regard to Sections 152(b)(1), (b)(2), and (d)(1)(B) of the Code), (ii)
      loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or (iii) other similar
      extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of
      events beyond the Participant s control, all as determined by the
      Administrator based on the relevant facts and circumstances and as
      provided for in Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(i)(3) or any successor
      provision.   

(bb)  
      
        Year 
         means a calendar
  year.    

   SECTION 3. ELIGIBILITY.   
  Each Director shall be eligible to defer
Eligible Compensation and to receive Awards under the Plan.  
   SECTION 4. ADMINISTRATION.
     
  This Plan shall be administered by the
Administrator. Subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law, the
Administrator shall have full power and authority to: (i) interpret, construe
and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to, or Award
granted or Accounts established under, the Plan; (ii) establish, amend, suspend
or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it deems
appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; and (iii) make any other
determination and take any other action that it deems necessary or desirable for
the administration of this Plan. All decisions of the Administrator shall be
final, conclusive and binding upon all parties, including the Company, the
stockholders and the Directors.  
  4   

SECTION 5. SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN.

(a)  
            
      Subject to adjustment
      as provided below, the number of Shares available for issuance under the
      Plan shall be 2,000,000 Shares.   

(b)  
      
      If, after the
      effective date of the Plan, any Shares covered by an Award or Stock Unit
      Account, or to which such an Award relates, are forfeited, or if such an
      Award or Account otherwise terminates without the delivery of Shares, then
      such Shares, to the extent of any such forfeiture or termination, shall
      again be, or shall become, available for issuance under the
  Plan.   

(c)  
      
      In the event that any
      Award granted hereunder is exercised through the delivery of Shares, or in
      the event that withholding tax liabilities arising from such Award are
      satisfied by the withholding of Shares by the Company, the number of
      Shares available for Awards under the Plan shall be increased by the
      number of Shares so surrendered or withheld.   

(d)  
      
      Any Shares delivered
      pursuant to an Award or Stock Unit Account may consist, in whole or in
      part, of authorized and unissued Shares or of treasury
Shares.   

(e)  
      
      In the event that any
      dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other
      securities, or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse
      stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off,
      combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities of the
      Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other
      securities of the Company, or other similar corporate transaction or event
      affects the Shares such that an adjustment is appropriate in order to
      prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits
      intended to be made available under the Plan, then the Administrator shall
      equitably adjust any or all of (i) the number of outstanding Restricted
      Stock Units, (ii) the number and type of Shares credited to Stock Unit
      Accounts, (iii) the number and type of Shares subject to Options, (iv) the
      exercise price with respect to any Option or, if deemed appropriate, make
      provision for a cash payment to the holder of an outstanding Option, and
      (v) the aggregate limit specified in Section 5(a); provided, however, that
      no fractional Restricted Stock Units or Shares shall be issued or
      outstanding hereunder. Any such adjustment with respect to a  stock right 
      outstanding under the Plan, as defined in Section 409A of the Code, will
      be made in a manner that is intended to avoid imposition of any additional
      tax and penalty under Section 409A.    
   SECTION 6. OPTIONS.      
  After the effective date of this Plan,
each Director will be granted annually an Option to purchase 7,000 Shares. The
Options granted will be nonstatutory stock options not intended to qualify under
Section 422 of the Code and shall have the following terms and
conditions:  

(a)  
            
       Price and Term of
      Options   . The purchase price per share
      of Shares deliverable upon the exercise of each Option shall be 100% of
      the Fair Market Value per share of the Shares on the date the Option is
      granted. In each Year, the effective date for the annual grant of options
      to the Company s executive officers by the Compensation Committee of the
      Board (or any successor committee) shall be the date Options are granted;
      provided that in any Year in which the Compensation Committee does not
      grant options in connection with the annual compensation review process,
      then the effective date of the first options granted by the Compensation
      Committee in such Year shall be the date Options are granted. Each Option
      shall have a term not to exceed ten years from the date of
  grant.    
  5   

(b)  
            
       Payment   . The Secretary shall
      determine the method or methods by which, and the form or forms,
      including, without limitation, cash, Shares, or other property, or any
      combination thereof, having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal
      to the relevant exercise price, in which payment of the exercise price
      with respect to an Option may be made or deemed to have been
    made.   

(c)  
      
       Exercisability.    Subject to
      Sections 6(d) and 6(e), Options shall become exercisable in four equal
      annual installments commencing on the first anniversary date of the
      grant.   

(d)  
      
       Change in
      Control   . In the event of a Change in
      Control, the provisions of Sections 6(c) and 6(e) shall not apply (except
      for Section 6(e)(iv)(B), which shall apply) and Options outstanding under
      the Plan shall be immediately exercisable in full and continue to full
      term.   

(e)  
      
       Termination of Service as a Director.    Except under the circumstances described in Section 6(d), the
      effect of a Participant s termination of service as a member of the Board
      shall be as follows:   

(i)  
            
      Termination
      for cause: All outstanding Options held by the Participant shall be
      canceled immediately upon termination.   

(ii)  
      
      Death: All
      outstanding Options held by the Participant shall continue to full term,
      becoming exercisable in accordance with Section 6(c), and shall be
      exercisable by such Participant s heirs or legal
  representatives.   

(iii)  
      
      Permanent
      disability, termination after 8 years of service, termination by reason of
      ineligibility to stand for reelection under the Company s By-Laws: All
      outstanding Options held by the Participant shall continue to full term,
      becoming exercisable in accordance with Section 6(c).   

(iv)  
      
      Other: For
      any termination other than those specified above, all outstanding Options
      held by the Participant shall be exercisable for 30 days after the date of
      termination, only to the extent that such Options were exercisable on the
      date of termination, except as follows:   

(A)  
            
      If the Participant
      dies within 30 days after his or her termination, then such Participant s
      heirs may exercise the Options for a period of up to one year after the
      Participant s death, but only to the extent any unexercised portion was
      exercisable on the date of termination.   

(B)  
      
      If the Participant s
      termination occurs within 30 days before the effective date of a Change in
      Control, then the Change in Control will be deemed to have occurred first
      and the Options outstanding shall be immediately exercisable in full by
      the Participant as of the date of the Change in Control and continue to
      full term.   

(f)  
      
       Option Agreement  . Each Option granted
      hereunder shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement with the Company, which
      shall contain the terms and provisions set forth herein and shall
      otherwise be consistent with the provisions of the
  Plan.     
  6   

SECTION 7. RESTRICTED STOCK
UNITS.   

(a)  
            
       Grants of
      Restricted Stock Units   .   

(i)  
            
      Following
      the effective date of this Plan, each Director shall, effective as of the
      date of such individual s initial election or appointment to the Board, be
      granted 2,000 Restricted Stock Units.   

(ii)  
      
      Effective
      November 30, 2006, each Director shall also be granted annually 2,500
      Restricted Stock Units. In each Year, the effective date for the annual
      grant of restricted stock units to the Company s executive officers by the
      Compensation Committee of the Board (or any successor committee) shall be
      the date Restricted Stock Units are granted; provided that in any Year in
      which the Compensation Committee does not grant restricted stock units in
      connection with the annual compensation review process, then the effective
      date of the first restricted stock units granted by the Compensation
      Committee in such Year shall be the date Restricted Stock Units are
      granted.   

(iii)  
      
      Each
      Restricted Stock Unit granted pursuant to this Section 7(a) shall be paid
      or settled by the issuance of one Share.   

(iv)  
      
      Vesting and
      Settlement.   

(A)  
            
      Restricted
      Stock Units granted prior to November 30, 2006:   

(1)  
            
      Vesting.
      Restricted Stock Units granted prior to November 30, 2006, shall vest upon
      the earliest to occur of (I) the member of the Board reaching the age at
      which he or she is ineligible under the Company s By-Laws to stand for
      reelection to the Board, (II) completion of eight years of service as the
      member of the Board, (III) the death or disability of the member of the
      Board, and (IV) a Change in Control as defined in Section 2(g). In the
      event the recipient of a Restricted Stock Unit terminates Board service
      prior to the events described in (I) or (II) of this Section
      7(a)(iv)(A)(1), for reasons other than death or disability, the
      recipient s Restricted Stock Units shall terminate and all of the rights,
      title and interest of the recipient thereunder shall be forfeited in their
      entirety.   

(2)  
      
      Settlement.   

(I)  
            
      Each Restricted Stock
      Unit granted prior to November 30, 2006, that vests prior to January 1,
      2005, shall be paid or settled upon the termination of the recipient s
      service as a member of the Board.   

(II)  
      
      Each Restricted Stock
      Unit granted prior to November 30, 2006, that vests on or after January 1,
      2005, shall be paid or settled upon the recipient s Separation from
      Service as a member of the Board; provided, however, that no such payment
      or settlement may be made to a Specified Employee before the date that is
      six months after the date of Separation from Service or, if earlier, the
      date of death.    
  7   

(B)  
            
      Restricted
      Stock Units granted on or after November 30, 2006:   

(1)  
            
      Vesting and
      Settlement. Subject to Section 7(a)(iv)(B)(2) and subject to a Director s
      election to defer the settlement of Restricted Stock Units pursuant to
      Section 8, the shares covered by the Restricted Stock Units shall be paid
      or settled as soon as practicable after the fourth anniversary of the date
      of grant.   

(2)  
      
      Change in
      Control. In the event of a Change in Control, the provisions of Section
      7(a)(iv)(B)(1) and (3) (except (3)(IV)) shall not apply, any election by a
      Director to defer settlement of such Restricted Stock Units pursuant to
      Section 8 shall be cancelled and any such Restricted Stock Units
      outstanding under this Plan shall vest and be paid
  immediately.   

(3)  
      
      Termination
      of Service as a Director. The effect of a Participant s termination of
      service as a member of the Board shall be as follows:   

(I)  
            
       Death   . All outstanding
      Restricted Stock Units held by the Participant shall continue to full term
      subject to the other terms and conditions of this Plan, and shares shall
      be issued to such Participant s heirs at such times and in such manner as
      if the Participant were still a member of the Board.   

(II)  
      
       Permanent
      disability, termination after 8 years of service, termination by reason of
      ineligibility to stand for reelection under the Company s
      By-Laws   . All outstanding Restricted
      Stock Units held by the Participant shall continue to full term subject to
      the other terms and conditions of this Plan, and shares shall be issued to
      such Participant at such times and in such manner as if the Participant
      were still a member of the Board.   

(III)  
      
       Other.
         For any termination other than those
      specified above, all outstanding Restricted Stock Units held by the
      Participant shall terminate and become void without any shares being
      issued, except as provided in Section 7(a)(iv)(B)(2).   

(IV)  
      
      If a Participant s
      termination of service (other than for cause) occurs within 30 days of a
      Change in Control, then the Change in Control shall be deemed to have
      occurred first and the provisions of Section 7(a)(iv)(B)(2) shall
      apply.    
  8   

(C)  
      
        Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. Each Restricted Stock Unit granted
      under this Section 7(a) shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement with the
      Company, which shall contain the terms and conditions set forth herein and
      shall otherwise be consistent with the provisions of this Plan.     

(b)  
            
       Right to Dividend
      Equivalents.    Each recipient of
      Restricted Stock Units under this Plan shall have the right, during the
      period when such Restricted Stock Units are outstanding and prior to the
      termination, forfeiture or payment or settlement thereof, to receive
      dividend equivalents equal to the amount or value of any cash or other
      distributions or dividends payable on the same number of Shares. The
      Company shall accumulate dividend equivalents on each dividend payment
      date and, unless a Director has elected to defer receipt of such dividend
      equivalents pursuant to Section 8, pay such accumulated amounts without
      interest in December of each fiscal year, but no later than March 15 of
      the calendar year following the calendar year in which the related
      dividend is declared.   

(c)   
      
       Issuance of
      Shares   . A stock certificate or
      certificates shall be registered and issued or other indicia of ownership
      of shares shall be issued, in the name or for the benefit of the holder of
      Restricted Stock Units and delivered to such holder as soon as practicable
      after such Restricted Stock Units have become payable or settleable in
      accordance with the terms of the Plan.    
   SECTION 8. DEFERRED
COMPENSATION.   

(a)  
            
       Deferral
      Election   . Each Director may elect, with
      respect to any Year, that all or any percentage of his or her Eligible
      Compensation be deferred in accordance with the terms of this
    Plan.   

(b)  
      
       Cash
      Compensation Investment Alternatives   .
      Each Director may elect that his or her Deferred Cash Compensation for any
      Year be credited to a Cash Account or a Stock Unit Account or to any
      combination thereof.   

(i)  
            
       Cash
      Accounts   .   

(A)  
            
      The Company shall
      establish and maintain, as appropriate, separate unfunded Cash Accounts
      for each Director who has elected that any portion of his or her Deferred
      Cash Compensation be credited to a Cash Account. Amounts earned and
      deferred prior to January 1, 2005, which a Director has elected to have
      credited to a Cash Account, and interest earned thereon, shall be kept by
      the Company in a separate account ( Pre-2005 Cash Account ). Amounts
      earned and deferred on or after January 1, 2005, which a Director has
      elected to have credited to a Cash Account, and interest earned thereon,
      shall be kept by the Company in a separate account ( Post-2004 Cash
      Account ).    
  9   

(B)  
            
      As of the date on
      which any amount of a Director s Deferred Cash Compensation becomes
      payable, his or her Cash Account shall be credited with an amount equal to
      that portion of such Deferred Cash Compensation as such Director has
      elected be credited to his or her Cash Account.   

(C)  
      
      As of the last day of
      each month, interest on each Cash Account shall be credited on the average
      of the balances on the first and last day of such month. Interest shall be
      credited at a rate equivalent to the average yield on corporate bonds
      rated Aaa by Moody s Investors Service on September 30 of the preceding
      Year (or if there is no such yield reported for such date, then on the
      next preceding date for which such a yield is reported) as published in
      Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15, or at such other rate that would
      qualify as a  reasonable rate of interest  as defined by Section 409A of
      the Code, as may be determined by the G SR Committee for each
      Year.   

(ii)   
         
       Stock
      Unit Accounts   .   

(A)  
            
      The Company
      shall establish and maintain, as appropriate, separate unfunded Stock Unit
      Accounts for each Director who has elected that any portion of his or her
      Deferred Cash Compensation be credited to a Stock Unit Account. Amounts
      earned and deferred prior to January 1, 2005, that a Director has elected
      to have credited to a Stock Unit Account and dividend equivalents
      attributable to those amounts shall be kept by the Company in a separate
      account ( Pre-2005 Stock Unit Account ). Amounts earned and deferred on or
      after January 1, 2005, that a Director has elected to have credited to a
      Stock Unit Account and dividend equivalents attributable to those stock
      units shall be kept by the Company in a separate account ( Post-2004 Stock
      Unit Account ). Amounts shall be credited to such Stock Unit Account as
      follows:   

(1)  
            
      As of each date on
      which any amount of a Director s Deferred Cash Compensation becomes
      payable, his or her Stock Unit Account shall be credited with that number
      of units as are equal to the number of full or fractional Shares as could
      be purchased at the Fair Market Value on the first trading day preceding
      such date with the portion of such Deferred Cash Compensation as such
      Director has elected be credited to his or her Stock Unit
    Account.   

(2)  
      
      As of the payment date
      for each dividend on Shares declared by the Board, there shall be credited
      to each Stock Unit Account that number of units as are equal to the number
      of full or fractional Shares as could be purchased at the Fair Market
      Value on the first trading day preceding the payment date for such
      dividend with an amount equal to the product of: (i) the dividend per
      share, and (ii) the number of units in such Stock Unit Account immediately
      prior to the record date for such dividend.    
  10   

(c)  
            
       Restricted Stock Units   . Each
      Director may elect to defer all or a portion of any Restricted Stock Unit
      granted after November 30, 2006.   

(d)  
      
       Dividend
      Equivalents.    Each Director may elect to
      defer all or a portion of any dividend equivalents paid on Restricted
      Stock Units granted under the Plan.   

(e)  
      
       Time of
      Election.    An election to defer all or
      any portion of Eligible Compensation for any Year shall be made in writing
      in the form ( Election Form ) prescribed by the Secretary. The Election
      Form shall contain the Participant s elections as to the time of
      distribution of any compensation so deferred.   

(i)  
            
      A
      Participant may elect that his or her Pre-2005 Account be distributed at
      the time or times indicated below:   

(A)  
            
      Entire balance to be
      distributed immediately after termination of service for any reason other
      than death;   

(B)  
      
      Entire balance to be
      distributed a number of months, as specified by the Participant on the
      Election Form, after termination of service for any reason other than
      death, but not later than ten years following such termination of
      service.   

(C)  
      
      Approximately equal
      monthly installments for a number of months, as specified by the
      Participant on the Election Form, commencing the month after termination
      of service for any reason other than death, provided that distribution
      shall be completed not later than ten years following such termination of
      service.   

(D)  
      
      A percentage of the
      entire balance to be paid on certain dates, with such percentages and
      dates specified by the Participant on the Election Form, provided that
      distribution shall commence no earlier than termination of service for any
      reason other than death, and shall be completed not later than ten years
      following such termination of service.   

(ii)  
      
      A
      Participant may elect that his or her Post-2004 Account be distributed at
      the time or times indicated below:   

(A)  
      
      Entire balance to be
      distributed immediately after Separation from Service for any reason other
      than death;   

(B)  
      
      Entire balance to be
      distributed a number of months, as specified by the Participant on the
      Election Form, after Separation from Service for any reason other than
      death, but not later than ten years following such Separation from
      Service.   

(C)  
      
      Approximately equal
      monthly installments for a number of months, as specified by the
      Participant on the Election Form, commencing the month after Separation
      from Service for any reason other than death, provided that distribution
      shall be completed not later than ten years following such Separation from
      Service.    
  11   

(D)  
      
      A percentage of the
      entire balance to be paid on certain dates, with such percentages and
      dates specified by the Participant on the Election Form, provided that
      distribution shall commence no earlier than Separation from Service for
      any reason other than death, and shall be completed not later than ten
      years following such Separation from Service.   

(iii)  
            
      A
      Participant may revoke an election as to the time of distribution and
      substitute a new election therefore by submitting an Election Form to the
      Secretary in accordance with the following criteria:   

(A)  
            
      With respect to his or
      her Pre-2005 Account, any new election must be made at least 12 months
      prior to the date of distribution that would otherwise have been
      applicable; and   

(B)  
      
      With respect to his or
      her Post-2004 Account: (I) any new election regarding the time of
      distribution must result in a minimum of five (5) years  lapse between the
      currently applicable date and the new date of distribution (as determined
      in accordance with the Regulations under Section 409A of the Code); and
      (II) the election must be made at least twelve (12) months prior to the
      date of distribution that would otherwise have been
  applicable.   

(iv)  
      
      Except as
      hereinafter provided, to be effective, an Election Form relating to
      payments in a Year or Restricted Stock Units that may be granted in such
      Year must be received by the Secretary on or before December 31 of the
      preceding Year. In the case of a Director s initial election to the Board,
      the initial Election Form must be received not more than 30 days following
      his or her election to the Board and, if received within such 30- day
      period, the Election Form shall be effective only for Eligible
      Compensation earned after the election becomes irrevocable pursuant to
      Section 8(f). The time of election and the time of distribution shall
      comply in all respects with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of
      the Code.   

(f)  
            
       Irrevocability of Election.    A
      Director s election to defer all or any portion of his or her Eligible
      Compensation for any Year and a revocation and substitution of an election
      regarding the time of distribution shall be irrevocable upon receipt by
      the Secretary of a completed Election Form from the Director.   

(g)  
      
       Form of
      Distributions   . (i) Distributions of
      amounts credited to each Participant s Cash Account shall be made in cash.
      (ii) Distributions of units credited to each Participant s Stock Unit
      Account shall be made by issuing to such Participant an equivalent number
      of Shares; provided, however, that no fractional shares will be issued and
      any fractional unit will be distributed by payment of cash in the amount
      represented by such fractional unit based on the Fair Market Value on the
      date preceding the date of payment.    
  12   

(iii)  
      
      Distribution of Shares
      relating to vested Restricted Stock Units the Participant has elected to
      defer shall be made by issuing to such Participant the whole number of
      Shares attributable to such vested Restricted Stock Units; provided,
      however, that no fractional shares will be issued and any fractional unit
      will be distributed by payment of cash in the amount represented by such
      fractional unit based on the Fair Market Value on the date preceding the
      date of payment.   

(h)  
            
       Time of
      Distributions.    

(i)  
            
       Normal
      Distributions.    Except as otherwise
      hereinafter provided, distributions of Deferred Compensation in a
      Participant s Pre-2005 Account shall be made (A) on the first day of the
      month following such Director s termination of service on the Board for
      any reason other than death, or (B) at such later time as the Participant
      has elected on his or her Election Form in accordance with the terms of
      this Plan. Except as otherwise hereinafter provided, distributions of
      Deferred Compensation in a Participant s Post-2004 Account shall be made
      (Y) on the first day of the month following such Participant s Separation
      from Service on the Board for any reason other than death, or (Z) at such
      later time as the Participant has elected on his or her Election Form in
      accordance with the terms of this Plan.   

Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, no distribution from a Post-2004 Account may be made to a
      Specified Employee before the date that is six months after the date of
      Separation from Service or, if earlier, the date of death.   

(ii)  
      
       Early Distributions.
         An earlier distribution may be
      made:   

(A)  
            
      For amounts in a Pre-2005
      Account, at the discretion of the Administrator, upon a finding that a
      Participant is suffering a significant financial hardship caused by a
      recent event or events not within such Participant s control; provided,
      however, that in such event, the cash or shares distributed shall be
      limited to those amounts necessary to accommodate the financial hardship,
      as determined by the Administrator;   

(B)  
      
      For amounts in a Post-2004
      Account, upon a finding that the Participant is suffering from an
      Unforeseeable Emergency, a withdrawal on account of Unforeseeable
      Emergency may not be made to the extent that such emergency is or may be
      relieved (1) through reimbursement or compensation from insurance or
      otherwise, (2) by liquidation of the Participant s assets, to the extent
      the liquidation of such assets would not cause severe financial hardship,
      or (3) by cessation of deferrals under the Plan.   

Withdrawal because of an
      Unforeseeable Emergency must be limited to the amount reasonably necessary
      to satisfy the emergency need (which may include amounts necessary to pay
      any federal, state, local, or foreign income taxes or penalties reasonably
      anticipated to result from the distribution), as determined by the
      Administrator, in its sole discretion. The Participant must apply in
      writing for a payment upon an  Unforeseeable Emergency,  using the form
      prescribed by the Administrator. The Administrator retains the sole and
      absolute discretion to grant or deny a payment upon an Unforeseeable
      Emergency. In the event of approval of a payment upon an Unforeseeable
      Emergency, the Participant s outstanding deferral elections under the Plan
      shall be cancelled.    
  13   

(i)  
            
       Death of
      Participant   . Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, in the event of the death of a Participant prior to receipt by
      such Participant of the full amount of cash and number of shares to be
      distributed from the Pre-2005 Account or Post- 2004 Account, all such cash
      and/or shares will be distributed to the beneficiary or beneficiaries
      designated by the Participant, or if no beneficiary has been designated,
      to the Participant s estate as soon as practicable following the month in
      which the death occurred. Shares to be distributed to the Participant in
      connection with deferred Restricted Stock Units shall also be distributed
      as described in the preceding sentence but in no event earlier than the
      fourth anniversary of the date of grant.   

(j)  
      
       Certain Rights
      Reserved by the Company   . In the event
      that, pursuant to Section 10, the Company suspends, modifies or terminates
      this Plan, the Company shall have the right to distribute to each
      Participant all amounts in such Participant s Cash Account or Shares
      equivalent to units in such Participant s Stock Unit Account, including,
      in the case of Stock Unit Accounts, the right to distribute cash
      equivalent to the units in such Accounts and all Shares attributable to
      vested Restricted Stock Units that a Participant has elected to defer,
      provided that any such suspension, modification or termination may be
      effected without penalty under Section 409A of the Code.   

(k)  
      
       Certain
      Affiliations   . (i) In the event that any
      Participant terminates his or her membership on the Board and becomes
      affiliated with a government agency or with any private company or firm
      that the G SR Committee believes to be in competition with the
      Company, the Board may, at its discretion, require a distribution of all
      amounts in any Participant s Pre-2005 Cash Account or shares equivalent to
      units in such Participant s Pre-2005 Stock Unit Account. (ii) In the event
      that any Participant terminates his or her membership on the Board and
      becomes affiliated with a government agency, all amounts in any
      Participant s Post-2004 Cash Account, shares equivalent to units in such
      Participant s Post-2004 Stock Unit Account and Shares attributable to
      Restricted Stock Units that vested on or after January 1, 2005, that such
      Participant has elected to defer will be distributed to the Participant if
      such payment is necessary to avoid violation of any applicable Federal,
      state, local or foreign ethics or conflict of interest law or if necessary
      to comply with an ethics agreement with the federal
  government.    
   SECTION 9. OTHER STOCK-BASED
AWARDS.   
  The Administrator is hereby authorized to
grant to Directors such other Awards (including, without limitation, stock
appreciation rights and rights to dividends and dividend equivalents) that are
denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or
otherwise based on or related to, Shares (including, without limitation,
securities convertible into Shares) as are deemed by the Administrator to be
consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the
Administrator shall determine the terms and conditions of such Awards. Shares or
other securities delivered pursuant to a purchase right granted under this
Section 9 shall be purchased for such consideration, which may be paid by such
method or methods and in such form or forms, including, without limitation,
cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, or other property, or any
combination thereof, as the Administrator shall determine, the value of which
consideration, as established by the Administrator, shall not be less than the
Fair Market Value of such Shares or other securities as of the date such
purchase right is granted. The Company intends that such other Awards granted
pursuant to this Section shall comply with Section 409A of the Code if
applicable.  
  14   

SECTION 10. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.
     
  Except to the extent prohibited by or
inconsistent with applicable law:  

(a)  
            
       Amendments to the
      Plan   . The Board may amend, alter,
      suspend, discontinue or terminate the Plan, including, without limitation,
      the number of shares subject to Awards granted pursuant to Sections 6 and
      7, without the consent of any stockholder, Participant, other holder or
      beneficiary of any Award, or other person;    provided, however   , that no such
      amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation or termination shall be
      made without (i) stockholder approval if such approval is necessary to
      qualify for or comply with any tax or regulatory requirement for which or
      with which the Board deems it necessary or desirable to qualify or comply
      or (ii) the consent of the affected Participant, if such action would
      adversely affect the rights of such Participant under any outstanding
      Award; and    provided
      further   , that no such amendment or
      alteration shall increase the aggregate number of shares that may be
      issued under the Plan except as provided in Section 5(e). In addition, any
      such amendment shall be in compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
      However, the Company makes no representations or covenants that Awards
      will comply with Section 409A. Notwithstanding any other provision of the
      Plan or any Award Agreement, no such amendment, alteration, suspension,
      discontinuation or termination shall be made that would (1) permit Options
      to be granted with a per Share exercise price of less than the Fair Market
      Value of a Share on the date of grant thereof or (2) except as provided in
      Section 5(e), (x) reduce the exercise price of any Option established at
      the time of grant thereof, (y) be treated as a repricing under U.S.
      generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) or (z) cancel an Option
      at a time when its exercise price is equal to or greater than the Fair
      Market Value of a Share, in exchange for another Option, restricted stock
      unit or other equity, unless such cancellation and exchange occurs in
      connection with a merger, acquisition, spin-off or other similar corporate
      transaction. A cancellation and exchange described in clause (z) of the
      immediately preceding sentence is prohibited regardless of whether the
      option, restricted stock unit or other equity is delivered simultaneously
      with the cancellation and regardless of whether the cancellation and
      exchange is treated as a repricing under GAAP or is voluntary on the part
      of the Participant.   

(b)  
      
       Correction of
      Defects, Omissions and Inconsistencies   .
      The Administrator may correct any defect, supply any omission, or
      reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award in the manner and to
      the extent it shall deem desirable to carry the Plan into
  effect.    
  15   

SECTION 11. GENERAL
PROVISIONS.   

(a)  
            
       No Rights of
      Stockholders   . Neither a Participant nor
      a Participant s legal representative shall be, or have any of the rights
      and privileges of, a stockholder of the Company in respect of any Shares
      issuable under the Plan in connection with any Award or Account, in whole
      or in part, unless and until certificates or other indicia of ownership of
      such shares shall have been issued.   

(b)  
      
       Limits of Transfer
      of Awards.    No Award and no right under
      any such Award, shall be assignable, alienable, saleable or transferable
      by a Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and
      distribution. During the Participant s lifetime, rights under an Award
      shall be exercisable only by the Participant, or if permissible under
      applicable law, by the Participant s guardian or legal
      representative.   

(c)  
      
       No Limit on Other
      Compensation Arrangements   . Nothing
      contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company from adopting or
      continuing in effect other or additional compensation arrangements, and
      such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in
      specific cases.   

(d)  
      
       Governing
      Law   . The validity, construction, and
      effect of the Plan and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan
      shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware
      and applicable federal law.   

(e)  
      
       Severability   . If any provision
      of the Plan or any Award Agreement is or becomes or is deemed to be
      invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, or as to any
      person, Award or Account, or would disqualify the Plan or any Award under
      any law deemed applicable by the Administrator, such provision shall be
      construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or if it cannot
      be so construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the
      Administrator, materially altering the intent of the Plan or the Award,
      such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, person or Award,
      and the remainder of the Plan and any such Award shall remain in full
      force and effect.   

(f)  
      
       No Trust or Fund
      Created   . Neither the Plan nor any Award
      or Account shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund
      of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and a
      Participant or any other person. To the extent that any person acquires a
      right to receive an Award or Account, or Shares pursuant to an Award or
      Account, from the Company pursuant to this Plan, such right shall be no
      greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the
      Company.   

(g)  
      
       Accounts
      Unsecured   . Until distributed, all
      amounts credited to any Cash Accounts or represented by units credited to
      any Stock Unit Account shall be property of the Company, available for the
      Company s use, and subject to the claims of general creditors of the
      Company. The rights of any Participant or beneficiary to distributions
      under this Plan are not subject to anticipation, alienation, sale,
      transfer, assignment, or encumbrance, and shall not be subject to the
      debts or liabilities of any Participant or
  beneficiary.    
  16   

(h)  
            
       Withholding   . The Company shall
      be authorized to withhold from any Awards granted or any transfer made
      under any Award or under the Plan or from any dividend equivalents to be
      paid on Restricted Stock Units the amount (in cash, Shares, other
      securities, or other property) of any taxes required to be withheld in
      respect of a grant, exercise, payment or settlement of an Award or any
      payment of dividend equivalents under Restricted Stock Units or under the
      Plan and to take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of
      the Company to satisfy all obligations for the payment of any such
      taxes.   

(i)  
      
       No Right to
      Continued Board Membership   . The grant
      of an Award or establishment of an Account shall not be construed as
      giving a Participant the right to be retained as a director of the
      Company. The Board may at any time fail or refuse to nominate a
      Participant for election to the Board, and the stockholders of the Company
      may at any election fail or refuse to elect any Participant to the Board
      free from any liability or claim under this Plan or any Award or
      Account.   

(j)  
      
       409A
      Compliance   . The Company makes no
      representations or covenants that any Award granted or Deferred
      Compensation arrangement maintained under the Plan will comply with
      Section 409A.    
   SECTION 12. EFFECTIVE DATE OF
PLAN.   
  The Plan shall be effective as of the date
of its approval by the stockholders of the Company.  
   SECTION 13. TERM OF THE
PLAN.   
  No Award shall be granted or compensation
deferred under the Plan after the seventh anniversary of the Effective Date of
the Plan. However, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in an
applicable Award Agreement, any Award granted or Account established prior to
the termination of the Plan may extend beyond such date, and the authority of
the Committee to amend, alter, adjust, suspend, discontinue, or terminate any
such Award or Account, or to waive any conditions or rights thereunder, and the
authority of the Board to amend the Plan, shall extend beyond such
date.  
  17   

</EX-10.K>

<EX-13>
 6
 exhibit_13.htm
 PORTIONS OF REGISTRANT'S 2008 ANNUAL REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS

Exhibit 13   
  
  See accompanying notes.  
  [ 2 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

See accompanying notes.  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 3 ]  

See accompanying notes.  
  [ 4 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

See accompanying notes.  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 5 ]  

(a)  
          
      Reflects the impact of
      recording the funded status of pension and other postretirement plans and
      the change in measurement date of non-U.S. pension plans (see Note
      12).   

(b)  
      
      Reflects the impact of
      recording the reduction of the liability for uncertain tax positions and
      related accrued interest expense (see Note 5).    
  See accompanying notes.  
  [ 6 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

Notes to financial
statements   
   1. Description of business and
significant accounting policies and practices   
   Business   : At Texas Instruments (TI), we design and make
semiconductors that we sell to electronics designers and manufacturers all over
the world. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we revised our internal reporting
structure into three reportable segments, which are established along the major
product categories of the former Semiconductor segment as follows:  
  Analog  
consists of high-performance analog (includes standard power management
products, data converters, amplifiers and interface products) and high-volume
analog   logic,   Embedded Processing  
consists of digital signal processors (DSPs) and microcontrollers used in
catalog, communications infrastructure and automotive applications,
and   Wireless   consists of DSPs and
analog used in basebands, OMAP  applications processors and connectivity
products for handsets.  
       In
addition, we report the results of our remaining business activities in Other.
Other primarily includes DLP  products, calculators, reduced-instruction set
computing (RISC) microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits
(ASIC) products and royalties received for our patented technology that we
license to other electronics companies. Prior period segment presentations have
been revised to conform to our new reporting structure (see Note 17).  
   Acquisitions      In the second quarter of 2008 we made two acquisitions,
both of which were integrated into the Analog segment, for net cash of $19
million, to obtain design expertise and technology. We recognized $2 million of
goodwill and $13 million of other acquisition-related intangible
assets.        During 2007, to obtain design expertise and technology, we made three
acquisitions, including an asset acquisition, for net cash of $87 million. The
asset acquisition was integrated into the Wireless segment and the remaining two
acquisitions were integrated into the Analog segment. We recognized $48 million
of goodwill and $45 million of other acquisition-related intangible
assets.        In
January 2006, we acquired 100 percent of the equity of Chipcon Group ASA
(Chipcon), a designer of short-range, low-power wireless radio frequency
semiconductors, based in Oslo, Norway, for net cash of $177 million. This
acquisition was integrated into the Analog segment. We recorded a $5 million
charge for in-process research and development (R D) in 2006. We also
recognized $115 million of goodwill and $86 million of other acquisition-related
intangible assets, acquired $6 million of cash and assumed $29 million of other
net liabilities. We also made an asset acquisition, which was integrated into
Other, in the second quarter of 2006, primarily to obtain a patent
portfolio.        With the exception of the asset acquisitions, all acquisitions were
accounted for as purchase business combinations. The results of operations for
these acquisitions have been included in our consolidated statements of income
from the date of their respective acquisitions. Pro forma information has not
been presented for these acquisitions because it would not be materially
different from amounts reported.  
   Dispositions      On July 31, 2007, we completed the sale of our broadband
digital subscriber line (DSL) customer-premises equipment semiconductor product
line, which was included in Other, to Infineon Technologies AG (Infineon) for
$61 million and recognized a pre-tax gain of $39 million in cost of revenue.
Based on the levels of revenue Infineon generated from this product line
subsequent to the closing date, we refunded to Infineon $16 million in the
fourth quarter of 2008, all of which was previously
accrued.        In
January 2006, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell substantially all
of our former Sensors   Controls segment, excluding the radio frequency
identification (RFID) systems operations, to an affiliate of Bain Capital, LLC
for $3 billion in cash. The sale was completed on April 27, 2006. The operations
and cash flows of the former Sensors   Controls business have been
eliminated from our continuing operations, and we have no continuing involvement
in the operations of that business. Beginning in the first quarter of 2006, the
former Sensors   Controls business has been presented as a discontinued
operation (see Note 6).  
   Basis of
presentation   : The consolidated financial
statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The basis of these financial
statements is comparable for all periods presented herein, except for the
adoption of:  
 
    A new standard for income tax uncertainties
  as of January 1, 2007 (see Note 5), and 
    A new standard on pensions and other
  postretirement benefits as of December 31, 2006 (see Note 12).   
       The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all subsidiaries. All
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
All dollar amounts in the financial statements and tables in the notes, except
per-share amounts, are stated in millions of U.S. dollars unless otherwise
indicated. All amounts in the notes reference continuing operations unless
otherwise indicated. We have reclassified certain amounts in the prior periods 
financial statements to conform to the 2008 presentation.          The preparation of financial
statements requires the use of estimates from which final results may
vary.  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 7 ]  

Revenue
recognition   : We recognize revenue from
sales of our products, including shipping fees, when title passes to the
customer, which usually occurs upon shipment or delivery, depending upon the
terms of the sales order and when collectibility is reasonably assured.
Estimates of product returns for quality reasons and of price allowances (based
on historical experience, product shipment analysis and customer contractual
arrangements) are recorded when revenue is recognized. Allowances include
discounts for prompt payment, as well as volume-based incentives and special
pricing arrangements. In addition, we record allowances for doubtful accounts
for amounts of accounts receivable that we estimate may not be
collected.        We recognize revenue from sales of our products to distributors, net of
allowances, consistent with the principles discussed above. Title transfers to
the distributors at delivery and payment is due on our standard commercial
terms; payment terms are not contingent upon resale of the products. We
calculate credit allowances based on historical data, current economic
conditions and contractual terms. For instance, we sell to distributors at
standard published prices, but we may grant them price adjustment credits in
response to individual competitive opportunities they may have. To estimate
allowances for this type of credit, we use statistical percentages of revenue,
determined quarterly, based upon recent historical adjustment
trends.         We also provide distributors an allowance to scrap certain slow-moving or
obsolete products in their inventory, estimated as a negotiated fixed percentage
of each distributor s purchases from us. In addition, if we publish a new price
for a product that is lower than that paid by distributors for the same product
still remaining in each distributor s on-hand inventory, we may credit them for
the difference between those prices. The allowance for this type of credit is
based on the identified product price difference applied to our estimate of each
distributor s on-hand inventory of that product. We believe we can reasonably
and reliably estimate allowances for credits to distributors in a timely
manner.        Our
contractual agreements with intellectual property licensees determine the amount
and timing of royalty revenue. We recognize royalty revenue when earned under
the terms of the agreements and when we consider realization of payment to be
probable. Where royalties are based on a percentage of licensee sales of
royalty-bearing products, we recognize royalty revenue by applying this
percentage to our estimate of applicable licensee sales. We base this estimate
on historical experience and an analysis of licensees  sales results. Where
royalties are based on fixed payment amounts, we recognize royalty revenue
ratably over the term of the royalty agreement. Where warranted, revenue from
licensees may be recognized on a cash basis.          We include shipping and handling
costs in cost of revenue.  
   Stock-based
compensation   : We have several
stock-based employee compensation plans, which are more fully described in Note
3. We account for awards granted under those plans using the fair-value
recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.
123(R),    Share-Based
Payment   . We estimated fair values for
non-qualified stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with
the weighted-average assumptions listed in Note 3.  
   Advertising costs   : We expense advertising and other promotional costs as
incurred. This expense was $123 million in 2008, $194 million in 2007 and $216
million in 2006.  
   Income taxes   : We account for income taxes using an asset and
liability approach. We record the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the
current year and the deferred tax assets and liabilities for future tax
consequences of events that have been recognized in the financial statements or
tax returns. We record a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not
that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
realized.         In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB
Interpretation (FIN) No. 48,    Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an Interpretation of FASB Statement No.
109   . We adopted the provisions of FIN 48
effective January 1, 2007 (see Note 5).  
   Other assessed
taxes   : Some transactions require us to
collect taxes such as sales, value-added and excise taxes from our customers.
These transactions are presented in our statements of income on a net (excluded
from revenue) basis.  
  [ 8 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

Earnings per share
(EPS)   : The computation and
reconciliation of earnings per common share from continuing operations are as
follows (shares in millions):  
  
  Options to purchase 123 million, 46
million and 93 million shares of common stock were outstanding during 2008, 2007
and 2006 that were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share
because their exercise price was greater than the average market price of the
common shares and, therefore, the effect would be anti-dilutive.  
   Cash equivalents and short-term
investments   : We consider investments in
debt securities with original maturities of three months or less to be cash
equivalents. We consider investments in liquid debt securities with maturities
beyond three months from the date of our investment as being available for use
in current operations, and include these investments in short-term
investments.         Investments in debt securities are classified as available for sale and
are stated at fair value, which is generally based on market prices or broker
quotes (see Note 10). Changes in fair value of these investments are recorded as
an increase or decrease, net of taxes, in accumulated other comprehensive income
(AOCI), except where losses are considered to be other-than-temporary, in which
case the losses are recorded in other income (expense) net
(OI E).  
   Inventories   : Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or
estimated net realizable value. Cost is generally computed on a currently
adjusted standard cost basis, which approximates costs on a first-in first-out
basis. Standard costs are based on the normal utilization of installed factory
capacity. Costs associated with underutilization of capacity are expensed as
incurred.        We review inventory quarterly for salability and obsolescence. A specific
allowance is provided for inventory considered unlikely to be sold. Remaining
inventory includes a salability and obsolescence allowance based on an analysis
of historical disposal activity. We write-off inventory in the period in which
disposal occurs.  
   Property, plant and equipment and
other capitalized costs   : Property, plant
and equipment are stated at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful
lives using the straight-line method. Leasehold improvements are amortized using
the straight-line method over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the
estimated useful lives of the improvements. Acquisition-related intangibles are
amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life of the
assets. Capitalized software licenses generally are amortized on a straight-line
basis over the term of the license. Fully depreciated or amortized assets are
written off against accumulated depreciation or amortization.  
   Impairments of long-lived
assets   : We regularly review whether
facts or circumstances exist that indicate the carrying values of property,
plant and equipment or intangible assets are impaired. We assess the
recoverability of assets by comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows
associated with those assets to their respective carrying amounts. An impairment
charge, if any, is based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair
value of those assets. Fair value is determined by available market valuations,
if applicable, or by discounted cash flows (DCF).  
   Long-term
investments   : Long-term investments
consist of non-marketable equity securities, venture capital funds, mutual funds
and, beginning in the first quarter of 2008, auction-rate securities (debt
instruments with variable interest rates). We determine cost or amortized cost,
as appropriate, on a specific identification
basis.        Investments in marketable equity securities and auction-rate securities
are classified as available-for-sale and are stated at fair value (see Note 10).
Changes in the fair value of these investments are recorded as an increase or
decrease, net of taxes, in AOCI except where losses are considered to be
other-than-temporary, in which case losses are recorded in OI E. We
generally consider marketable equity securities to be other-than-temporarily
impaired if they have traded below their cost basis for more than six months.
Auction-rate securities are considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired if
the fair value is below par value and full recovery of the value is not
anticipated during the period we expect to hold the
investment.         Investments in non-marketable equity securities consist of investments in
early stage development companies, are stated at historical cost and are subject
to a periodic impairment review. We record any impairment considered
other-than-temporary in OI E.  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 9 ]  

Investments in venture capital funds, consisting of limited partnership
interests, are accounted for under the equity method of accounting where we have
more than a 3 percent limited partnership interest, and under the cost method of
accounting where our limited partnership interest is less than 3 percent. For
our investments accounted for under the equity method, our proportionate share
of the net income or loss of the limited partnerships is recorded in OI E.
Investments in venture capital funds are subject to a periodic impairment
review. We record any impairment considered other-than-temporary in
OI E.        Investments in mutual funds are classified as trading securities and
stated at fair value. These mutual funds hold a variety of debt and equity
investments and are intended to generate returns that offset changes in certain
liabilities related to deferred compensation arrangements. We record adjustments
to fair value of both the mutual funds and the related deferred compensation
liabilities in selling, general and administrative (SG A) expense (see Note
12 for a discussion of deferred compensation arrangements).  
   Goodwill and intangible
assets   : Goodwill is not amortized but is
reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if certain impairment
indicators arise. We complete our annual goodwill impairment tests as of October
1 for our reporting units. The test compares the fair value for each reporting
unit to its associated book value including goodwill. With the change in our
segment reporting structure, existing goodwill included in our former
Semiconductor segment was allocated to the applicable reporting units and tested
for impairment (see Note 11).        We amortize intangible assets on a straight-line basis
over their estimated lives, and write off fully amortized intangible assets
against accumulated amortization.  
   Foreign currency   : The functional currency for our non-U.S. subsidiaries
is the U.S. dollar. Accounts recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar
are remeasured into the functional currency. Current assets (except
inventories), deferred income taxes, other assets, current liabilities and
long-term liabilities are remeasured at exchange rates in effect at the end of
each reporting period. Inventories, and property, plant and equipment and
depreciation thereon, are remeasured at historic exchange rates. Revenue and
expense accounts other than depreciation for each month are remeasured at the
appropriate daily rate of exchange. Net currency exchange gains and losses from
remeasurement are credited or charged to OI E.  
   Derivatives   : We use derivative financial instruments to manage
exposure to foreign exchange risk. We do not apply hedge accounting to our
foreign currency derivative instruments. These instruments are primarily forward
foreign currency exchange contracts that are used as economic hedges to reduce
the adverse earnings impact exchange rate fluctuations may have on our non-U.S.
dollar net balance sheet exposures or for specified non-U.S. dollar forecasted
transactions. Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of these forward
foreign currency exchange contracts are credited or charged to
OI E.           We do not use
derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.  
   Changes in accounting
standards   : In September 2006, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 157,    Fair Value
Measurements   , which provides guidance on
how to measure assets and liabilities recorded at fair value. SFAS 157 does not
expand the use of fair value to any new circumstances, but does require
additional disclosure in annual and quarterly reports. We adopted SFAS 157 and
its related amendments for financial assets and liabilities as of January 1,
2008 (see Note 10). SFAS 157 is effective for non-financial assets and
liabilities for us beginning January 1, 2009. We have evaluated the
non-financial assets and liabilities portion of the standard and expect it will
have no significant impact on our financial condition or results of
operations.        In October 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS
157-3,    Determining the Fair Value of a
Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active   , which clarifies how companies should apply the fair
value measurement methodologies of SFAS 157 to financial assets whose markets
are illiquid or inactive. Under this FSP, companies may use their own
assumptions about future cash flows and risk-adjusted discount rates when
relevant observable inputs are either unavailable or based solely on transaction
prices that reflect forced liquidations or distressed sales. This FSP was
effective as of September 30, 2008. There was no impact to our financial
condition or results of operations from the adoption of this
FSP.        In
March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,    Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   An
Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133   .
This standard applies to derivative instruments, nonderivative instruments that
are designated and qualify as hedging instruments and related hedged items
accounted for under SFAS 133. SFAS 161 does not change the accounting for
derivatives and hedging activities, but requires enhanced disclosure concerning
the effect on the financial statements from their use. SFAS 161 is effective for
us beginning January 1, 2009. Given our limited use of derivatives, we do not
expect our disclosures about the use of derivatives to be significantly impacted
by this standard.        In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF 03-6-1,    Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based
Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities   . Under this standard, unvested awards of share-based
payments with rights to receive dividends or dividend equivalents, such as our
restricted stock units (RSUs), are considered participating securities for
purposes of calculating EPS as disclosed in the income statement. This FSP is
effective for us beginning January 1, 2009. All prior period EPS data presented
in financial reports after the effective date shall be adjusted retrospectively
to conform with this FSP. Early application is not permitted. We have evaluated
the potential impact of this standard and determined it will result in
insignificant adjustments to previously reported EPS amounts.  
  [ 10 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

In
December 2007, the FASB concurrently issued SFAS No. 141(R),    Business Combinations,    and SFAS No. 160,    Noncontrolling
Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements - an Amendment of ARB No.
51   . SFAS 141(R) provides new guidance on
the recognition, measurement and subsequent accounting for assets acquired and
liabilities assumed in business combination transactions. In addition, SFAS
141(R) changes the accounting treatment for certain items in business
combinations, including, for example, expensing acquisition-related costs,
recording acquired contingent liabilities/assets at their acquisition-date fair
value and capitalization of in-process R D costs. If an entity owns less
than a 100 percent ownership interest, SFAS 160 provides for the recognition,
measurement and subsequent accounting for non-controlling (i.e., minority)
interests included in an entity s consolidated financial statements. Both of
these standards require measurements based on fair value as determined under the
provisions of SFAS 157. In addition, both of these standards include expanded
disclosure requirements. They are effective prospectively for us for
transactions occurring on or after January 1, 2009. The impact that adoption of
SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 will have on our financial condition and results of
operations will depend on the specific terms of any applicable future
transactions.         In November 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No.
08-6,    Equity Method Investment Accounting
Considerations   . EITF 08-6 resolves
several accounting issues that have arisen with the issuance of SFAS 141(R) in
applying the equity method of accounting, such as how to determine the initial
carrying value after an acquisition and how to assess an impairment in value of
the underlying assets of an equity method investment. This EITF will be
effective for us beginning January 1, 2009, consistent with the effective date
of SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160. We are currently evaluating the potential impact
this standard will have on our financial condition and results of
operations.         In November 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 08-7,    Accounting for Defensive Intangible
Assets   . EITF 08-7 provides guidance on
how to account for intangible assets acquired in a business combination, in
situations when the acquirer does not intend to actively use the assets but
intends to hold (or lock up) the assets to prevent competitors from obtaining
access to the assets. These are referred to as  defensive intangible assets. 
This EITF will be effective for defensive intangible assets acquired by us
beginning January 1, 2009, consistent with the effective date of SFAS 141(R).
The impact that adoption of this EITF will have on our financial condition and
results of operations will depend on the specific terms of any applicable future
business combinations.        In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS
132(R)-1,    Employers  Disclosures about
Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets   . This
FSP provides guidance on an employer s disclosures about plan assets of a
defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan, including disclosures
about investment policies and strategies, categories of plan assets, fair value
measurements of plan assets and significant concentrations of risk. These
disclosures will be required for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009.
There will be no impact to our financial condition or results of operations from
the adoption of this FSP.  
   2. Restructuring
activities   
  We record severance-related expenses
in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 112,    Employer s Accounting for Post-Employment
Benefits   ;       SFAS No. 146,    Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
Activities    and SFAS No. 88, 
  Employers  Accounting for Settlements and
Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination
Benefits   . The determination of when we
accrue for involuntary severance costs and which standard applies depends on
whether the termination benefits are provided under an ongoing benefit
arrangement as described in SFAS 112 or under a one-time benefit arrangement as
defined by SFAS 146. We record involuntary severance-related expenses related to
an ongoing benefit arrangement in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 112
once they are probable and the amounts are estimable. One-time, involuntary
termination benefits are recorded under the provisions of SFAS No. 146 when the
benefits have been communicated to employees. Voluntary termination benefits are
accounted for under the provisions of SFAS No. 88 and are recorded when the
employee accepts the offered benefit
arrangement.         When the decision to commit to a restructuring plan requires an asset
impairment review, we evaluate such impairment issues under the provisions of
SFAS No. 144,    Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets   . Because the impairment is a direct result of the restructuring, the
impairment amount is included in the restructuring expense line item in the
income statement and is recorded as an adjustment of the basis of the asset, not
as a liability relating to a restructuring charge. When we commit to a plan to
abandon a long-lived asset before the end of its previously estimated useful
life, we accelerate the recognition of depreciation to reflect the use of the
asset over its shortened useful life. When an asset is to be sold, we write the
carrying value down to its net realizable value and cease
depreciation.  
   2008 and 2009
actions    In October 2008, we announced
actions that, when complete, will reduce annualized expenses by more than $200
million in our Wireless segment, especially our cellular baseband operation.
About 650 jobs are expected to be eliminated. The total restructuring charges
related to this action will be approximately $110 million and are expected to be
complete by June 2009.         In January 2009 we announced actions that include
employment reductions to align our spending with demand that has weakened in the
slowing economy. Our employment will be reduced 12 percent through 1,800 layoffs
and 1,600 voluntary retirements and departures. The total restructuring charges
for this action will be about $300 million and will continue through the third
quarter of 2009. Combined with the Wireless actions described above, our
annualized costs will be reduced by more than $700 million.  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 11 ]  

In the
fourth quarter of 2008, we recognized $230 million in restructuring charges
related to these actions, which included $121 million for a portion of the
actions announced in January 2009 and $109 million for the Wireless actions
announced in October 2008. The restructuring costs consisted of $218 million for
severance and benefits costs and $12 million related to impairments of
long-lived assets. We also fully impaired $24 million of assets that were held
for sale related to a 2007 action discussed below.          As of December 31, 2008, $2 million
has been paid for these actions to terminated employees for severance and
benefits.  
   2007 actions    In January 2007, we announced plans to change how we
develop advanced digital manufacturing process technology. Instead of separately
creating our own core process technology, we work collaboratively with our
foundry partners to specify and drive the next generations of digital process
technology. Additionally, we stopped production at an older digital factory.
These actions are complete and as a result, about 300 jobs were eliminated by
year-end 2007.        Operating profit for 2007 included a charge of $52 million related to
these actions, which consisted of severance and benefits costs of $31 million
and acceleration of depreciation on the impacted facilities  assets of $21
million. These amounts have been reclassified from cost of revenue ($37
million), R D ($14 million) and SG A ($1 million) to the restructuring
expense line on the income statement to conform to the 2008
presentation.           As of
December 31, 2008, $19 million has been paid for these actions to terminated
employees for severance and benefits.  
   3. Stock-based
compensation   
  
  These amounts include expense related
to non-qualified stock options, RSUs and to stock options offered under our
employee stock purchase plan.        We issue awards of non-qualified stock options generally
with graded vesting provisions (e.g., 25 percent per year for four years). In
such cases, we recognize the related compensation cost on a straight-line basis
over the minimum service period required for vesting of the award. For awards to
employees who are retirement eligible or nearing retirement eligibility, we
recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the longer of the
service period required to be performed by the employee in order to earn the
award, or a six-month period.        We also issue RSUs, which generally vest four years after
the date of grant. In such cases, we recognize the related compensation costs on
a straight-line basis over the vesting period.  
   Fair value
assumptions:    We estimated the fair
values for non-qualified stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model with the following weighted-average assumptions:  
  
  (a)    Includes stock
options under the long-term incentive plans and the director plans.  
  [ 12 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

We determine expected volatility on
all options granted after July 1, 2005, using available implied volatility rates
rather than on an analysis of historical volatility. We believe that
market-based measures of implied volatility are currently the best available
indicators of the expected volatility used in these
estimates.        We determine expected lives of options based on the historical share
option exercise experience of our optionees using a rolling 10-year average. We
believe the historical experience method is the best estimate of future exercise
patterns currently available.        Risk-free interest rates are determined using the implied
yield currently available for zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a
remaining term equal to the expected life of the
options.        Expected dividend yields are based on the approved annual dividend rate
in effect and the current market price of our common stock at the time of grant.
No assumption for a future dividend rate change has been included unless there
is an approved plan to change the dividend in the near
term.        The
fair value per share of RSUs that we grant is determined based on the market
price of our common stock on the date of grant.           The TI Employees 2005 Stock Purchase
Plan is a discount-purchase plan and consequently, the Black-Scholes option
pricing model is not used to determine the fair value per share of these awards.
The fair value per share under this plan equals the amount of the
discount.  
   Long-term incentive and director
compensation plans    We have stock
options outstanding to participants under the Texas Instruments 2000 Long-Term
Incentive Plan, the Texas Instruments 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the
Texas Instruments 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan. No further options may be
granted under the 1996 plan. We also assumed stock options granted under the
Burr-Brown 1993 Stock Incentive Plan and the Radia Communications, Inc. 2000
Stock Option/Stock Issuance Plan. Unless the options are acquisition-related
replacement options, the option price per share may not be less than 100 percent
of the fair market value of our common stock on the date of the grant.
Substantially all the options have a 10-year term and vest ratably over four
years. Our options generally continue to vest after the option recipient
retires.         We have RSUs outstanding under the 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the
2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Each RSU represents the right to receive one
share of TI common stock on the vesting date, which is generally four years
after the date of grant. Upon vesting, the shares are issued without payment by
the grantee. RSUs generally do not continue to vest after the recipient s
retirement date.         Under the 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan, we may grant
stock options, including incentive stock options, restricted stock and RSUs,
performance units and other stock-based awards. The plan provides for the
issuance of 120,000,000 shares of TI common stock. In addition, if any
stock-based award under the 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan terminates, any
unissued shares subject to the terminated award become available for grant under
the 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan. No more than 13,400,000 shares of common
stock may be awarded as restricted stock, RSUs or other stock-based awards
(other than stock options) under the
plan.        Under
the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, we may grant stock options (other than
incentive stock options), restricted stock and RSUs, performance units and other
stock-based awards to non-management employees. The plan provides for the
issuance of 240,000,000 shares of TI common stock. Executive officers and
approximately 200 managers are ineligible to receive awards under this
plan.        Under
our 2003 Director Compensation Plan, we may grant stock options, RSUs and other
stock-based awards to non-employee directors, as well as issue TI common stock
upon the distribution of stock units credited to deferred-compensation accounts
established for such directors. The plan provides for the annual grant of a
stock option to each non-employee director from January 2004 through 2010. For
the years 2001 through 2006, each grant was an option to purchase 15,000 shares
with an option price equal to fair market value on the date of grant. Effective
in 2007, the plan reduced the annual stock option grant to 7,000 shares and
included an annual grant of 2,500 RSUs to each non-employee director. Under the
plan, we also make a one-time grant of 2,000 RSUs to each new non-employee
director of TI. The plan provides for the issuance of 2,000,000 shares of TI
common stock.  
  Stock option and RSU transactions
under the above-mentioned long-term incentive and director compensation plans
(including assumed stock options granted under the Burr-Brown and Radia
Communications, Inc. plans) during 2008 were as follows:  
  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 13 ]  

The weighted average grant-date fair
value of RSUs granted during the years 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $29.09, $29.46
and $31.36 per share. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the
total fair value of shares vested from RSU grants was $20 million, $12 million
and $13 million.  
  Summarized information about stock
options outstanding under the various long-term plans mentioned above at
December 31, 2008, is as follows:  
  
  During the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, the aggregate intrinsic value (i.e., the difference in the
closing market price and the exercise price to be paid by the optionee) of
options exercised under these plans was $110 million, $606 million and $419
million.  
  Summarized information as of December
31, 2008, about outstanding stock options that are vested and expected to vest,
as well as stock options that are currently exercisable, is as
follows:  

(a)  
           
      Includes effects
      of expected forfeitures. Excluding the effects of expected forfeitures,
      the aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding was $3
      million.    
  As of December 31, 2008, the total
future compensation cost related to unvested stock options and RSUs not yet
recognized in the statement of income was $131 million and $150 million. Of that
total, $137 million, $90 million, $49 million and $5 million will be recognized
in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012.  
   Employee stock purchase
plan    Under the TI Employees 2005
Stock Purchase Plan, options are offered to all eligible employees in amounts
based on a percentage of the employee s compensation. Under the plan, the option
price per share is 85 percent of the fair market value on the exercise date, and
options have a three-month term.        Options outstanding under the Plan at December 31, 2008,
had an exercise price of $13.64 per share (85 percent of the fair market value
of TI common stock on the date of automatic exercise). Of the total outstanding
options, none were exercisable at year-end 2008.  
  Employee stock purchase plan
transactions during 2008 were as follows:  

(a)  
           
      Excludes options
      offered but not granted.    
  [ 14 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

The weighted average grant-date fair
value of options granted under the employee stock purchase plans during the
years 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $3.37, $5.10 and $4.68 per share. During the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the total intrinsic value of options
exercised under the employee stock plans was $11 million, $11 million and $10
million.  
   Effect on shares outstanding and
treasury shares    Our practice is to
issue shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options generally from
treasury shares and, on a limited basis, from previously unissued shares. We
settled stock option plan exercises using treasury shares of 11,217,809 in 2008;
39,791,295 in 2007 and 26,602,306 in 2006; and previously unissued common shares
of 85,472 in 2008; 511,907 in 2007 and 49,100 in
2006.        Upon
vesting of RSUs, we issued treasury shares of 544,404 in 2008; 515,209 in 2007
and 128,578 in 2006; and previously unissued common shares of zero in 2008;
12,000 in 2007 and 279,082 in 2006.   
  Shares available for future grant and
reserved for issuance are summarized below:  
  
   Effect on cash
flows    Cash received from the exercise
of options was $210 million in 2008, $761 million in 2007 and $418 million in
2006. The related net tax benefit realized was $31 million, $204 million and
$146 million (which includes excess tax benefits realized of $19 million, $116
million and $100 million) in 2008, 2007 and 2006.   
   4. Profit sharing
plans   
  Profit sharing benefits are generally
formulaic and determined by one or more subsidiary or company-wide financial
metrics. We pay profit sharing benefits primarily under the company-wide TI
Employee Profit Sharing Plan. This plan provides for profit sharing to be paid
based solely on TI s operating margin for the full calendar year. Under this
plan, TI must achieve a minimum threshold of 10 percent operating margin before
any profit sharing is paid. At 10 percent operating margin, profit sharing will
be 2 percent of eligible payroll. The maximum amount of profit sharing available
under the plan is 20 percent of eligible payroll, which is paid only if TI s
operating margin is at or above 35 percent for a full calendar
year.        We
recognized $121 million, $180 million and $149 million of profit sharing expense
under the TI Employee Profit Sharing Plan in 2008, 2007 and 2006.  
   5. Income taxes   
   Income from continuing operations
before income taxes   
  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT     [ 15 ]  

Provision (benefit) for income
taxes   
  
  Principal reconciling items from
income tax computed at the statutory federal rate follow:  
  
  The primary components of deferred
income tax assets and liabilities at December 31 were as follows:  
  
  [ 16 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, net
deferred income tax assets of $1.63 billion and $1.12 billion were presented in
the balance sheets, based on tax jurisdiction, as deferred income tax assets of
$1.69 billion and $1.16 billion and deferred income tax liabilities of $59
million and $49 million. The increase in net deferred income tax assets from
December 31, 2007, to December 31, 2008, exceeds the $182 million deferred tax
benefit primarily due to the recording of deferred tax assets associated with
postretirement benefit costs recognized in AOCI. We make an ongoing assessment
regarding the realization of U.S. and non-U.S. deferred tax assets. While these
assets are not assured of realization, our assessment is that a valuation
allowance is not required for the remaining balance of the deferred tax assets.
This assessment is based on our evaluation of relevant criteria including the
existence of (a) deferred tax liabilities that can be used to absorb deferred
tax assets, (b) taxable income in prior carryback years and (c) future taxable
income.        We
have aggregate U.S. and non-U.S. tax loss carryforwards of approximately $225
million, of which $59 million expire through the year
2025.        Provision has been made for deferred taxes on undistributed earnings of
non-U.S. subsidiaries to the extent that dividend payments from these
subsidiaries are expected to result in additional tax liability. The remaining
undistributed earnings (approximately $2.75 billion at December 31, 2008) have
been indefinitely reinvested; therefore, no provision has been made for taxes
due upon remittance of these earnings. It is not feasible to determine the
amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability on these unremitted
earnings.        Cash payments made for income taxes (net of refunds) were $772 million,
$733 million and $1.83 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006.  
   Uncertain tax
positions   : We operate in a number of tax
jurisdictions and are subject to examination of our income tax returns by tax
authorities in those jurisdictions who may challenge any item on these tax
returns. Because the matters challenged by authorities are typically complex,
their ultimate outcome is uncertain. We recognize accrued interest related to
uncertain tax positions and penalties as components of OI E. Effective
January 1, 2007, we adopted the provisions of FIN 48. FIN 48 differs from the
prior standards in that it requires companies to determine that it is  more
likely than not  that a tax position will be sustained by the appropriate tax
authorities before any benefit can be recorded in the financial
statements.  
  The following table summarizes the
changes in the total amounts of uncertain tax positions for 2008 and
2007:  
  
  Of the $148 million liability for
uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2008, $121 million represents tax
positions that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate. If these tax
positions were recognized, $70 million of deferred tax assets primarily related
to the procedures for relief from double taxation would also be
recognized.        As of December 31, 2008, the statute of limitations remains open for U.S.
federal tax returns for 1999 and following years. Our returns for the years 2000
through 2006 are the subject of tax treaty procedures for relief from double
taxation; and our returns for the years 2003 through 2006 will be the subject of
an appeals proceeding in 2009. Cases currently before the United States Tax
Court could have an impact on the determination of our uncertain tax positions
and the outcome of the 2009 appeals proceeding. It is reasonably possible that
the appeals proceeding will be completed within the next 12
months.        In
foreign jurisdictions, the years open to audit represent the years still subject
to the statute of limitations. Years still open to audit by foreign tax
authorities in major jurisdictions include Germany (2003 onward), France (2006
onward), Japan (2001 onward) and Taiwan (2003
onward).        We
are unable to estimate the range of any reasonably possible increase or decrease
in uncertain tax positions that may occur within the next 12 months resulting
from the eventual outcome of the years currently under audit or appeal. However,
we do not anticipate any such outcome will result in a significant change to our
financial condition or results of operations.  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT     [ 17 ]  

6. Discontinued
operations   
  As discussed in Note 1, in 2006 we
sold substantially all of our former Sensors   Controls segment.   
  The results of operations of our
former Sensors   Controls business, which was renamed Sensata Technologies
(Sensata), are presented as discontinued operations. The following summarizes
results of the discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and
2006, included in the consolidated statements of income:  

(a)  
           
      EPS amounts from
      continuing and discontinued operations may not add to net income per share
      due to rounding.     
  Total income from discontinued
operations in 2007 includes an income tax benefit related to a reduction of a
state tax liability associated with the sale.  
   7. Financial instruments and risk
concentration   
   Financial
instruments   : We have derivative
financial instruments of insignificant fair value as of December 31, 2008, such
as forward foreign currency exchange contracts, forward purchase contracts and
investment warrants. Our forward foreign currency exchange contracts outstanding
at December 31, 2008, had a notional value of $600 million to hedge our non-U.S.
dollar net balance sheet exposures (including $187 million to sell euros, $34
million to sell British pounds and $263 million to sell Japanese
yen).        Cash
equivalents, short-term investments, certain long-term investments and deferred
compensation liabilities are carried at fair value. The carrying values for
other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and
accounts payable, approximate fair value due to their short maturity.  
   Risk concentration   : Financial instruments that could subject us to
concentrations of credit risk are primarily cash and short-term investments and
accounts receivable. In order to manage our credit risk exposure, we place cash
investments in investment-grade debt securities and limit the amount of credit
exposure to any one issuer. We also limit counterparties on forward foreign
currency exchange contracts to investment-grade-rated financial institutions.
  
  Concentrations of credit risk with
respect to accounts receivable are limited due to the large number of customers
in our customer base and their dispersion across different industries and
geographic areas. We maintain an allowance for losses based on the expected
collectibility of accounts receivable. These allowances are deducted from
accounts receivable on our balance sheets. Details of these allowances are as
follows:  
  
  [ 18 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

8. Cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments   
  Details of our cash, cash equivalents
and short-term investment balances are as follows:  
  
  The primary objectives of our cash
equivalent and short-term investment activities are to preserve capital and
maintain liquidity while generating appropriate returns. Our investment policy
allows for only high-credit-quality securities. As of December 31, 2008, over 99
percent of our cash equivalents and short-term investments were either rated
AAA, Aaa or unconditionally guaranteed by a Aaa-rated U.S. government sponsored
enterprise (GSE). The value and liquidity of these securities are generally
affected by market interest rates, as well as the ability of the issuer to make
principal and interest payments when due and the normal functioning of the
markets in which they are traded. There were no material impairments of
short-term investments or cash equivalents in the periods
presented.        As of December 31, 2008, our cash equivalents included investments in
corporate obligations guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(FDIC) and in money market funds. Our short-term investments included corporate
obligations guaranteed by the FDIC or the Debt Management Office of the United
Kingdom, discount notes issued by U.S. government agencies, U.S. Treasury
securities and mortgage-backed securities. All of the mortgage-backed securities
we held as of December 31, 2008, were either Aaa-rated or unconditionally
guaranteed by a Aaa-rated U.S.
GSE.        As of
December 31, 2007, we held $1.04 billion of auction-rate securities at par
value, which was equal to fair value as of that date. During the first quarter
of 2008, we sold $473 million of these auction-rate securities at par through
the normal auction process. Beginning in mid-February 2008, liquidity issues in
the global credit markets caused the failure of auctions and uncertainty
regarding the liquidity of these securities. As a result, beginning in the first
quarter of 2008, we reclassified our investments in auction-rate securities with
a par value of $571 million from short-term investments to long-term investments
(see Note 9).  
  The following table presents the
aggregate maturities of cash equivalents and short-term investments at year-end
2008:  

Due    
            
        Fair Value     

One year or less  
       
      $  
      2,015   
   
      One to
      three years  

75   
   
      Investments with serial maturities (primarily mortgage-backed
      securities)  

250     
  Gross unrealized gains on cash
equivalents and short-term investments were $6 million for the year ending
December 31, 2008. There were no gross unrealized gains on cash equivalents and
short-term investments for the years ending December 31, 2007 and 2006. Gross
unrealized losses were $19 million, $14 million and $23 million, respectively,
for these time periods. Unrealized losses for the years ending December 31, 2008
and 2007 were primarily associated with mortgage-backed securities that have
been in an unrealized loss position for more than 12 months. Unrealized gains
and losses resulted from changes in market interest rates and risk premiums
rather than changes in the credit quality of the securities. We have determined
that our investment in these cash equivalents and short-term investments are not
other-than-temporarily impaired, as we have the ability and intent to hold these
investments until their value can be recovered, which may include holding them
to their respective maturity dates.  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 19 ]  

Proceeds from sales of these securities prior to their scheduled maturity
were $1.76 billion, $2.12 billion and $5.34 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006.
Gross realized gains and losses from the sales of these securities were not
significant for any periods presented.  
   9. Long-term
investments   
  Details of long-term investments are
as follows:  
  
  There were $9 million, $6 million and
$6 million of gross realized gains and no gross realized losses from sales of
long-term investments in 2008, 2007 and 2006. Other-than-temporary declines and
impairments in the values of long-term investments recognized in OI E were
$10 million, $18 million and $8 million in 2008, 2007 and
2006.        Our
long-term investments include auction-rate securities, which are debt
instruments with variable interest rates that historically would periodically
reset through an auction process. As of December 31, 2008, we held $482 million
($535 million par value) of auction-rate securities. The $53 million difference
between fair value and par value is considered temporary and is recorded as an
unrealized loss, net of taxes, in AOCI. We have determined that our investments
in auction-rate securities are not other-than-temporarily impaired, as we have
the ability and intent to hold these investments until their value can be
recovered, which may include holding them to their respective maturity
dates.        Since mid-February 2008, conditions in global credit markets have caused
the failure of auctions for most auction-rate securities, including those we
hold, because the amount of securities submitted for sale in those auctions
exceeded the amount of bids. A failed auction is not a default by the issuer of
the security. When auctions are not successful, the interest rate moves to a
maximum rate defined for each security, and is generally reset periodically at a
level higher than defined short-term interest benchmarks. To date, we have
collected all interest on all of our auction-rate securities when due, and we
expect to continue to do so in the future. The principal associated with failed
auctions will not be accessible until successful auctions resume, a buyer is
found outside of the auction process or issuers use a different form of
financing to replace these securities. Meanwhile, issuers continue to repay
principal over time from cash flows prior to final maturity, or make final
payments when they come due according to contractual maturities ranging from 14
to 39 years. We understand that issuers and financial markets are working on
alternatives that may improve liquidity, but it is not clear when or to what
extent such efforts will be successful. We expect that we will receive the
principal associated with our auction-rate securities through one of the means
described above.        Since the failure of the auctions in February 2008, $36 million of our
auction-rate securities have been redeemed by the issuers at par. Of these
redemptions, $15 million involved securities classified as Level 2 for purposes
of determining fair value, with the remaining $21 million classified as Level 3
(see Note 10).        As of December 31, 2008, $500 million par value of our auction-rate
securities are backed by pools of student loans guaranteed by the U.S.
Department of Education and, based on this guarantee, we continue to believe
that the credit quality of these securities is high. As of December 31, 2008,
these securities were all rated AAA/Aaa by the major credit rating agencies. The
remaining $35 million par value of our auction-rate securities are covered by
bond insurance and were rated Aa3 by Moody s as of December 31,
2008.          Subsequent to year end, $3 million
of our auction-rate securities were redeemed at par in January
2009.        While
our ability to liquidate our auction-rate investments is likely to be limited
for some period of time, we do not believe this will materially impact our
ability to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend
payments or other business requirements.  
  [ 20 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

10. Fair value
measurement   
  As discussed in Note 1, effective
January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS 157 for measuring and reporting financial
assets and liabilities at fair value. SFAS 157 defines fair value as the price
that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit
price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability
in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement
date.  
         SFAS 157
establishes a three-level disclosure hierarchy to indicate the level of judgment
used to estimate fair value measurements:  
         Level 1   Uses unadjusted
quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities as of the reporting date.  
         Level 2   Uses inputs other
than Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable as of the
reporting date through correlation with market data, including quoted prices for
similar assets and liabilities in active markets and quoted prices in markets
that are not active. Level 2 also includes assets and liabilities valued using
models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment
because the input assumptions used in the models, such as interest rates and
volatility factors, are corroborated by readily observable data.  
         Level 3   Uses inputs that are
unobservable, supported by little or no market activity and reflect significant
management judgment. These values are generally determined using pricing models
that utilize management s estimates of market participant
assumptions.  
       Investments in auction-rate securities are our only Level
3 assets. In the first quarter of 2008, these assets were transferred from Level
2 because quoted prices from broker-dealers were unavailable due to events
described in Note 9. As a result, we use a DCF model to determine the estimated
fair value of these investments. Assumptions used in preparing this model
include estimates for the amount and timing of future interest and principal
payments, and the rate of return required by investors to own these securities
in the current environment. In making these assumptions, we considered relevant
factors including: the formula for each security that defines the interest rate
paid to investors in the event of a failed auction; forward projections of the
interest rate benchmarks specified in such formulas; the likely timing of
principal repayments; the probability of full repayment considering the
guarantees by the U.S. Department of Education of the underlying student loans,
guarantees by other third parties, and additional credit enhancements provided
through other means; and, publicly available pricing data for recently traded
student loan asset-backed securities that are not subject to auctions. Our
estimate of the rate of return required by investors to own these securities
also considers the current reduced liquidity for auction-rate
securities.        The table below sets forth, by level, our financial assets and
liabilities that were accounted for at fair value as of December 31, 2008. The
table does not include either cash on hand or assets and liabilities that are
measured at historical cost or any basis other than fair value.  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 21 ]  

Changes in fair value during the
period (pre-tax)   
  
   11. Goodwill and other
acquisition-related intangibles   
  As a result of changing our segment
reporting structure, we allocated all goodwill related to the former
Semiconductor reporting unit to our new reporting units for the purpose of
testing goodwill for possible impairment.  
  Goodwill was allocated to the
reporting units based on their relative fair values. Balances as of December 31,
2008, by segment are as follows:  
  
  There was no impairment of goodwill
during 2008 or 2007. The goodwill balances shown on our balance sheets are net
of total accumulated amortization of $221 million at year-end 2008 and
2007.        In
2008 and 2007, we recognized intangible assets associated with acquisitions we
made during the year of $13 million and $45 million, respectively, primarily for
developed technology, to be amortized over three to five
years.        There were no significant in-process R D charges associated with 2008
or 2007 acquisitions. In 2006 we recorded a $5 million charge for in-process
R D as a result of the acquisition of Chipcon.  
  [ 22 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

The following table shows the
components of acquisition-related intangible assets that are subject to
amortization:  
  
  Amortization of acquisition-related
intangibles was $37 million, $48 million and $59 million for 2008, 2007 and
2006, primarily related to developed technology. Fully amortized intangible
assets are written off against accumulated amortization.  
  The following table sets forth the
estimated amortization of acquisition-related intangibles for the years ended
December 31:  
  
   12. Postretirement benefit
plans   
  On December 31, 2006, we adopted the
recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 158,    Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans - an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106,
and 132(R)   . SFAS 158 requires us to
recognize the funded status (i.e., the difference between the fair value of plan
assets and the projected benefit obligations) of our defined benefit pension and
other postretirement benefit plans on our balance sheet. Previously unrecognized
net actuarial losses and prior service costs are reflected in AOCI, net of tax,
and continue to be recognized in future periods as a component of net periodic
benefit cost. Actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs that arise in
periods subsequent to December 31, 2006, are not recognized as part of net
periodic benefit cost in the period incurred but are recognized as a component
of other comprehensive income. These amounts are subsequently recognized as a
component of future net periodic benefit cost consistent with our past practice.
We measure plan assets at fair value in accordance with SFAS 157, 
  Fair Value Measurements   .  
   Plan descriptions   : We have various employee retirement plans including
defined benefit, defined contribution and retiree health care benefit plans. For
qualifying employees, we offer deferred compensation arrangements.  
   U.S. retirement
plans:    Principal retirement plans in
the U.S are qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans (all of
which closed to new participants after November 1997), a defined contribution
plan and an enhanced defined contribution
plan.        Both
defined contribution plans offer an employer-matching savings option that allows
employees to make pre-tax contributions to various investment choices, including
a TI common stock fund. Employees who remain in the qualified defined benefit
pension plan may also participate in the defined contribution plan, where
employer-matching contributions are provided for up to 2 percent of the
employee s annual eligible earnings. Employees who elected not to remain in the
defined benefit pension plan, and employees hired after November 1997 and
through December 31, 2003, may participate in the enhanced defined contribution
plan. This plan provides for a fixed employer contribution of 2 percent of the
employee s annual eligible earnings, plus an employer-matching contribution of
up to 4 percent of the employee s annual eligible earnings. Employees hired
after December 31, 2003, do not receive the fixed employer contribution of 2
percent of the employee s annual eligible
earnings.        At December 31, 2008 and 2007, as a result of employees  elections, TI s
U.S. defined contribution plans held shares of TI common stock totaling 32
million shares and 33 million shares valued at $494 million and $1.11 billion.
Dividends paid on these shares for 2008 and 2007 totaled $14 million and $11
million.        Our aggregate expense for employees under the U.S. defined contribution
plans was $56 million in each of 2008, 2007 and 2006.          Benefits under the qualified defined
benefit pension plan are determined using a formula based upon years of service
and the highest five consecutive years of compensation. We intend to contribute
amounts to this plan to meet the minimum funding requirements of federal laws
and regulations plus such additional amounts as we deem appropriate. The
non-qualified plans are unfunded and closed to new participants.  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 23 ]  

During
2008 and 2007, the U.S. defined benefit plans made $70 million and $45 million
in total benefit payments, of which $16 million in 2008 were accounted for as
plan settlements. The majority of the settlements were attributed to the
non-qualified plan. During 2008 we made a $100 million contribution to the
qualified pension plan. There were no contributions to this plan in 2007;
however, we did make payments from non-plan assets related to our non-qualified
plans of $12 million in 2008 and $3 million in 2007.  
   U.S. retiree health care benefit
plan:    We offer most of our U.S.
employees access to group medical coverage during their retirement. We make a
contribution toward the cost of those retiree medical benefits for certain
retirees and their dependents. The contribution rates are based upon various
factors, the most important of which are an employee s date of hire, date of
retirement, years of service and eligibility for Medicare benefits. The balance
of the cost is borne by the plan s participants. Employees hired after January
1, 2001, are responsible for the full cost of their medical benefits during
retirement. During 2008 and 2007 we made contributions to the retiree health
care related trusts of $50 million, and $10 million. In addition, we made
benefit payments each year of approximately $1 million from non-plan
assets.  
   Non-U.S. retirement
plans:    We provide retirement coverage
for non-U.S. employees, to the extent we deem appropriate, through separate
defined benefit and defined contribution plans. Retirement benefits are
generally based on an employee s years of service and compensation. Funding
requirements are determined on an individual country and plan basis and are
subject to local country practices and market circumstances. During 2008 and
2007 we contributed $87 million and $77 million to our non-U.S. retirement
plans.        As
of December 31, 2008 and 2007, as a result of employees  elections, TI s
non-U.S. defined contribution plans held 636,983 shares of TI common stock
valued at $10 million and 601,115 shares valued at $20 million. Dividends paid
on these shares for 2008 and 2007 were not significant.  
   Effect on the statements of income
and balance sheets   
  Expense related to defined benefit
and retiree health care benefit plans was as follows:  
  
  For the U.S. qualified pension and
retiree health care plans, the expected return on plan assets component of net
periodic benefit cost is based upon a market-related value of assets. In
accordance with U.S. GAAP, the market-related value of assets generally utilizes
a smoothing technique whereby certain gains and losses are phased in over a
period of three years.  
  [ 24 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

Changes in the benefit obligations
and plan assets for the defined benefit and retiree health care benefit plans
were as follows:  
  
  Amounts recognized on the balance
sheet as of December 31, 2008:  
 
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 25 ]  

The preceding tables present
aggregate information for all plans reported. The following table presents the
obligation and asset information for only those defined benefit plans that have
either projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets or accumulated
benefit obligations in excess of plan assets.  
  
  Accumulated benefit obligations were
$783 million and $764 million at year-end 2008 and 2007 for the U.S. defined
benefit plans, and $1.71 billion and $1.48 billion at year-end 2008 and 2007 for
the non-U.S. defined benefit plans.  
  The amounts recorded in AOCI for the
years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, are detailed below by plan
type:  
  
  The estimated amounts of unrecognized
prior service cost and net actuarial loss included in AOCI as of December 31,
2008, that are expected to be amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the
next fiscal year are: $1 million and $17 million for the U.S. defined benefit
plans; $2 million and $8 million for the U.S. retiree health care plan; and $(4)
million and $43 million for the non-U.S. defined benefit plans.  
   Assumptions and investment
policies   
  
  [ 26 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

In order to select a discount rate
for purposes of valuing the plan obligations and for fiscal-year-end disclosure,
an analysis is performed in which the projected cash flows from significant
defined benefit and retiree health care plans are matched with a yield curve
based on an appropriate universe of high-quality corporate bonds that are
available in each country. In this manner, a present value is developed. The
discount rate selected is the single equivalent rate that produces the same
present value. This approach produces a discount rate that recognizes each
plan s distinct liability characteristics. Assumptions used for the non-U.S.
defined benefit plans reflect the different economic environments within the
various countries.        Assumptions for the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets are
based on future expectations for returns for each asset class and the effect of
periodic target asset allocation rebalancing. We adjust the results for the
payment of reasonable expenses of the plan from plan assets. We believe our
assumptions are appropriate based on the investment mix and long-term nature of
the plans  investments.        Our rate of return assumption for the U.S. defined
benefit plan reflects a multi-year transition to an asset allocation policy with
less emphasis on equity investments. This move is designed to better match the
plan s assets with its liability structure as it
matures.        The table below shows target allocation ranges for the plans that hold a
substantial majority of the defined benefit assets. The asset allocations for
the retiree health care benefit plan are generally intended to represent the
long-term targeted mix rather than a current mix.  
  
  We intend to rebalance the defined
benefit plans  investments when they are not within the target allocation
ranges. Additional contributions are invested consistent with the target ranges
and may be used to rebalance the portfolio. The investment allocations and
individual investments are chosen with regard to the duration of the obligations
of each plan. A portion of the retiree health care benefit plan assets are
invested in an account within the pension trust and are invested in a like
manner as the other pension assets. The majority of the assets in the retiree
health care benefit plan are invested in a series of Voluntary Employee Benefit
Association (VEBA) trusts.  
  Weighted average asset allocations at
December 31, are as follows:  
  
  There are no significant restrictions
on the amount or nature of investments that may be acquired or held by the
plans. None of the plan assets related to the defined benefit pension plans and
retiree health care benefit plan are directly invested in TI common stock. As of
December 31, 2008, we do not expect to return any of the plans  assets to TI in
the next 12 months.        Contributions to the plans meet or exceed all minimum
funding requirements. We expect to contribute $41 million to our non-U.S.
retirement plans in 2009.  
  The following table shows the
benefits we expect to pay to participants from the plans in the next ten years.
Most of the payments will be made from plan assets and not company
assets.  
  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 27 ]  

Assumed health care cost trend rates
for the U.S. retiree health care plan at December 31:  
  
  Increasing or decreasing health care
cost trend rates by one percentage point would have increased or decreased the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for the U.S. retiree healthcare
plan at December 31, 2008, by approximately $15 million and the service cost and
interest cost components of 2008 plan expense by $1 million.  
   Deferred compensation
arrangements    We have a non-qualified
deferred compensation plan, which allows certain highly compensated employees to
defer receipt of a portion of their cash compensation. Payments under this plan
are made based on the participant s distribution election and plan balance.
Participants can earn a return on their deferred compensation based on
hypothetical investments in the same investment funds and TI common stock that
are offered in our defined contribution plans. Changes in the market value of
the participant deferrals and earnings thereon are reflected as an adjustment to
the liability for deferred compensation with an offset to compensation
expense.        As
of December 31, 2008, our liability to participants of the deferred compensation
plan was $138 million and is recorded in deferred credits and other liabilities.
This amount reflects the accumulated participant deferrals and earnings thereon
as of that date. We make no contributions to the deferred compensation plan and
so remain liable to the participants. However, to serve as an economic hedge
against changes in market values of this liability, we invest in similar mutual
funds and have entered into a forward purchase contract (explained below).
Changes in the fair value of these mutual fund investments are recognized in
compensation expense (see Note
10).        Because no shares of TI common stock are actually held for the account of
participants, as of December 31, 2008, we have a forward purchase contract with
a commercial bank to acquire 430,000 shares of TI common stock at a fixed price
of $18.85 per share at the end of the contract term or, at our option, to settle
in cash with the bank. We can unwind all or part of this contract prior to the
end of the contract term. The contract is intended to be an economic hedge to
minimize the earnings impact from the effect of fluctuations in stock market
prices on the portion of the deferred compensation plan obligations that are
denominated in TI stock. The changes in the fair value of the forward contract
are reflected in compensation expense. Since December 31, 2005, participants
have been prohibited from directing any further amount of their balances into TI
common stock, so this hedge will remain at or below 430,000 shares of TI common
stock in the future.  
   13. Debt and lines of
credit   
  On April 2, 2007, we retired $43
million of 8.75% notes at maturity. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had no
outstanding debt.          We maintain
lines of credit to support commercial paper borrowings, if any, and to provide
additional liquidity through bank loans. As of December 31, 2008, we had a
revolving credit facility under which a group of banks has committed $1 billion
through August 2011, and $920 million thereafter through August 2012. This
facility would carry a variable rate of interest indexed to the London Interbank
Offered Rate (LIBOR), if drawn. Our Japan subsidiary also has a revolving credit
facility for an additional $175 million with a group of banks that would carry a
variable rate of interest indexed to LIBOR, if drawn. At December 31, 2008 and
2007, both revolving credit facilities were undrawn, and no commercial paper was
outstanding.        Interest incurred on loans in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was zero, $1 million
and $12 million. Of these amounts, $5 million in 2006 was capitalized as a
component of capital asset construction costs.  
  [ 28 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

14. Commitments and
contingencies   
   Operating leases   : We conduct certain operations in leased facilities and
also lease a portion of our data processing and other equipment. In addition,
certain long-term supply agreements to purchase industrial gases are accounted
for as operating leases. Lease agreements frequently include purchase and
renewal provisions and require us to pay taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
Rental and lease expense incurred was $124 million, $123 million and $125
million in 2008, 2007 and 2006.  
   Capitalized software
licenses   : We have licenses for certain
electronic design automation software that are accounted for in accordance with
Statement of Position 98-1,    Accounting
for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal
Use   . The related liabilities are
apportioned between current liabilities (accounts payable) and long-term
liabilities (deferred credits and other liabilities) on our balance
sheet.  
   Purchase
commitments   : Some of our purchase
commitments entered in the ordinary course of business provide for minimum
payments.  
   Summary   : At December 31, 2008, we had committed to make the
following minimum payments under operating leases, capitalized software licenses
and purchase commitments:  
  
   Indemnification
guarantees   : We routinely sell products
with a limited intellectual property indemnification included in the terms of
sale. Historically, we have had only minimal, infrequent losses associated with
these indemnities. Consequently, we cannot reasonably estimate or accrue for any
future liabilities that may result.   
   Warranty costs/product
liabilities   : We accrue for known
product-related claims if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated.
During the periods presented, there have been no material accruals or payments
regarding product warranty or product liability, and historically we have
experienced a low rate of payments on product claims. Consistent with general
industry practice, we enter into formal contracts with certain customers that
include negotiated warranty remedies. Typically, under these agreements our
warranty for semiconductor products includes: three years coverage; an
obligation to repair, replace or refund; and a maximum payment obligation tied
to the price paid for our products. In some cases, product claims may exceed the
price of our products.  
   General   : We are subject to various legal and administrative
proceedings. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of these
matters, we believe that the results of these proceedings will not have a
material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations or
liquidity.  
   Discontinued operations
indemnity   : In connection with the sale
of the former Sensors   Controls business in 2006, we have agreed to
indemnify Sensata for specified litigation matters and certain liabilities,
including environmental liabilities. Our indemnification obligations with
respect to breaches of representations and warranties and the specified
litigation matters are generally subject to a total deductible of $30 million
and our maximum potential exposure is limited to $300 million.   
   15. Stockholders 
equity   
  We are authorized to issue 10,000,000
shares of preferred stock. No preferred stock is currently
outstanding.        Treasury shares acquired in connection with the board-authorized stock
repurchase program in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were 77,162,667 shares; 147,645,809
shares; and 173,580,794 shares. As of December 31, 2008, $3.55 billion of stock
repurchase authorizations remain and no expiration date has been
specified.  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 29 ]  

16. Supplemental financial
information    
   Other income (expense)
net   

(a)  
      
      Consists of benefits
      recognized due to the resolution of matters relating to grants from the
      government of Italy to a former business.   

(b)  
      
      Consists of refunds of
      overpayments attributable to former businesses and interest on refunds
      relating to settlements of audits of Texas sales and use
  taxes.   

(c)  
            
      Includes lease income of
      approximately $20 million per year, primarily from the purchaser of a
      former business. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of
      non-cancellable future lease payments to be received from these leases is
      $57 million. These leases contain renewal options. Other also includes
      miscellaneous non-operational items such as: interest income and expense
      related to non-investment items such as taxes; gains and losses for our
      proportionate share of the net income or loss of our limited partnerships
      accounted for under the equity method; realized gains and losses
      associated with former equity investments; gains and losses related to
      former businesses; and, gains and losses from currency exchange rate
      changes.    
   Inventories   
  
   Property, plant and equipment at
cost   
  
  Authorizations for property, plant
and equipment expenditures in future years were $136 million at December 31,
2008.  
   Accrued expenses and other
liabilities   
  
  [ 30 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss), net of taxes   
  
   17. Segment and geographic area
data   
  In the fourth quarter of 2008, we
revised our internal financial reporting structure to provide enhanced
information about the performance of our major product categories. Prior period
segment presentations have been revised to conform to our new reporting
structure.        Our financial reporting structure comprises three reportable segments.
These reportable segments, which are established along major product lines
having unique design and development requirements, are as follows:   
   Analog      Analog semiconductors change real-world signals   such
as sound, temperature, pressure or images   by conditioning them, amplifying
them and often converting them to a stream of digital data so the signals can be
processed by other semiconductors, such as DSPs. Analog semiconductors are also
used to manage power distribution and consumption. Analog includes
high-performance analog and high-volume analog   logic products.   
   Embedded Processing
     Our Embedded Processing products are
DSPs (other than DSPs specific to our Wireless segment) and microcontrollers.
DSPs perform mathematical computations almost instantaneously to process and
improve digital data. Microcontrollers are microprocessors that are designed to
control a set of specific tasks for electronic equipment. We make and sell
standard, or catalog, Embedded Processing products used in many different
applications and custom Embedded Processing products used in specific
applications, such as communications infrastructure equipment and
automotive.  
   Wireless      Cell phones require a modem or  baseband  to connect to
the wireless carrier s network. Many of today s advanced cell phones also
require an applications processor to run the phone s software and services, and
semiconductors to enable connectivity to Bluetooth  devices, WiFi networks or
GPS location services. We design, make and sell products to satisfy each of
these requirements. Wireless products are typically sold in high volumes and our
Wireless portfolio includes both standard (or merchant) products and custom
products.  
       We also
have Other, which includes other operating segments that neither meet the
quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments nor are they
aggregated with other operating segments. These operating segments primarily
include our smaller semiconductor product lines such as DLP  products (primarily
used to create high-definition images for business and home theater projectors,
televisions and movie projectors); RISC microprocessors (designed to provide
very fast computing and are often implemented in servers); and, custom
semiconductors known as ASICs. Other also includes handheld graphing and
scientific calculators and royalties received for our patented technology that
we license to other electronics
companies.        Other may also include certain unallocated income and expenses such as
gains and losses on sales of assets; sales tax refunds; and certain litigation
costs, settlements or reserves. Except for the few unallocated items just
mentioned, we allocate all of our expenses associated with corporate activities
to our operating segments based on specific methodologies, such as percentage of
operating expenses or headcount.        With the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or
allocate assets by operating segment, nor does the chief operating decision
maker evaluate operating segments using discrete asset information. There was no
significant intersegment revenue. The accounting policies of the segments are
the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting
policies.  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 31 ]  

Segment information   
  
  Operating profit for each segment
includes the following restructuring charges:  
  
  The following geographic area data
includes revenue, based on product shipment destination and royalty payor
location, and property, plant and equipment based on physical
location:  
   Geographic area
information   
  
   Major customer    Direct sales to the Nokia group of companies were 18
percent of our revenue in 2008, 16 percent of our revenue in 2007 and 11 percent
of our revenue in 2006; if indirect sales such as to contract manufacturers are
included, Nokia accounted for 20 percent, 19 percent and 15 percent of our 2008,
2007 and 2006 revenue. Revenue from sales to Nokia is reflected primarily in our
Wireless segment.   
  [ 32 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

Report of independent registered
public accounting firm   
  The Board of
Directors   Texas Instruments
Incorporated  
  We have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of Texas Instruments Incorporated and subsidiaries
(the Company) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated
statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.  
  We conducted our audits in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.  
  In our opinion, the financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of Texas Instruments Incorporated and
subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.  
  As discussed in Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting
for postretirement benefits and income tax uncertainties effective December 31,
2006 and January 1, 2007, respectively.  
  We also have audited, in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and our report dated February 20, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion
thereon.  
    
  Dallas, Texas February 20,
2009  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 33 ]  

Report by management on internal
control over financial reporting   
  The management of TI is responsible
for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting. TI s internal control system was designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
and fair presentation of financial statements issued for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  
  All internal control systems, no
matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  TI management assessed the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2008. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria) in
   Internal Control   Integrated
Framework   . Based on our assessment we
believe that, as of December 31, 2008, our internal control over financial
reporting is effective based on the COSO criteria.  
  TI s independent registered public
accounting firm, Ernst   Young LLP, has issued an audit report on the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, which
immediately follows this report.  
  [ 34 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

Report of independent registered
public accounting firm on internal control over financial
reporting   
  The Board of Directors Texas
Instruments Incorporated  
  We have audited Texas Instruments
Incorporated s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(the COSO criteria). Texas Instruments Incorporated s management is responsible
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
included in the accompanying Report By Management On Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
company s internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit.  
  We conducted our audit in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining
an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the
risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion.  
  A company s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  
  Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.  
  In our opinion, Texas Instruments
Incorporated maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the COSO criteria.
  
  We also have audited, in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the consolidated balance sheets of Texas Instruments Incorporated and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated
statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 and our report
dated February 20, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  
    
  Dallas, Texas February 20,
2009  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 35 ]  

See Notes to Financial Statements and
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.  
  [ 36 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

Management s discussion and
analysis of financial condition and results of operations   
  The following should be read in
conjunction with the Financial Statements and the related Notes that appear
elsewhere in this document. All dollar amounts in the tables in this discussion
are stated in millions of U.S. dollars, except per-share amounts. All amounts in
this discussion reference continuing operations unless otherwise
noted.  
   Overview    At Texas Instruments, we design and make semiconductors
that we sell to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world. We
began operations in 1930 and are incorporated in Delaware. We are headquartered
in Dallas, Texas, and have design, manufacturing or sales operations in more
than 30 countries. We have four segments: Analog, Embedded Processing, Wireless
and Other. We expect Analog and Embedded Processing to be our primary growth
engines in the years ahead, and we therefore focus our resources on these
segments.        We were the world s fourth largest semiconductor company in 2008 as
measured by revenue, according to preliminary estimates from an external source.
Additionally, we sell calculators and related products.  
   Product
information    Semiconductors are
electronic components that serve as the building blocks inside modern electronic
systems and equipment. Semiconductors come in two basic forms: individual
transistors and integrated circuits (generally known as  chips ) that combine
different transistors on a single piece of material to form a complete
electronic circuit. Our semiconductors are used to accomplish many different
things, such as converting and amplifying signals, interfacing with other
devices, managing and distributing power, processing data, canceling noise and
improving signal resolution. Our portfolio includes products that are integral
to almost all electronic
equipment.        We sell two general categories of semiconductor products: custom and
standard. A custom product is designed for a specific customer for a specific
application, is sold only to that customer and is typically sold directly to the
customer. A standard product is designed for use by many customers and/or many
applications and is generally sold through both distribution and direct
channels. Standard products include both proprietary and commodity
products.          Additional information regarding
each segment s products follows.  
   Analog    Analog semiconductors change real-world signals   such as
sound, temperature, pressure or images   by conditioning them, amplifying them
and often converting them to a stream of digital data so the signals can be
processed by other semiconductors, such as digital signal processors (DSPs).
Analog semiconductors are also used to manage power distribution and
consumption. Sales from our Analog segment accounted for about 40 percent of our
revenue in 2008. The worldwide market for analog semiconductors was about $36
billion in 2008. According to external sources, we have about a 12 percent share
in the fragmented analog semiconductor market, which is a leading position. We
believe that we are well positioned to increase our share over
time.        During 2008, we discussed our Analog business by reference to
high-performance analog and high-volume analog   logic.          High-performance analog products:
These include standard analog semiconductors, such as amplifiers, data
converters, low-power radio frequency devices, and interface and power
management semiconductors (our standard analog portfolio includes more than
20,000 products), that we market to many different customers (nearly 80,000) who
use them in a wide range of products across the industrial, communications,
computing and consumer markets. High-performance analog products generally have
long life cycles, often 10 to 20
years.        High-volume analog   logic products: These include two product types.
The first, high-volume analog, includes products for specific applications,
including custom products for specific customers. The life cycles of our
high-volume analog products are generally shorter than those of our
high-performance analog products. End markets for high-volume analog products
include communications, automotive, computing and many consumer electronics
products. The second product type, standard linear and logic, includes commodity
products marketed to many different customers for many different
applications.        Beginning with the first quarter of 2009, we will discuss power
management semiconductors as a separate category of Analog products, separating
it from the high-performance category.  
   Embedded
Processing    Our Embedded Processing
products include our DSPs (other than DSPs specific to our Wireless segment) and
microcontrollers. DSPs perform mathematical computations almost instantaneously
to process and improve digital data. Microcontrollers are microprocessors that
are designed to control a set of specific tasks for electronic equipment. Sales
of Embedded Processing products accounted for about 15 percent of our revenue in
2008. The worldwide market for embedded processors was about $17 billion in
2008. According to   
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 37 ]  

external sources, we have about 10
percent market share in this fragmented market, and we believe we are well
positioned to increase our share over
time.        An
important characteristic of Embedded Processing products is that our customers
often invest their own research and development (R D) to write software that
operates on our products. This investment tends to increase the length of our
customer relationships because customers prefer to re-use software from one
product generation to the next. We make and sell standard, or catalog, Embedded
Processing products used in many different applications and custom Embedded
Processing products used in specific applications, such as communications
infrastructure equipment and automotive.   
   Wireless    Cell phones require a modem or  baseband  to connect to
the wireless carrier s network. Many of today s advanced cell phones also
require an applications processor to run the phone s software and services, and
semiconductors to enable connectivity to Bluetooth  devices, WiFi networks or
GPS location services. We design, make and sell products to satisfy each of
these requirements. Wireless products are typically sold in high volumes and our
Wireless portfolio includes both standard (or merchant) products and custom
products. Sales of Wireless products accounted for about 25 percent of our
revenue in 2008, and a significant portion of our Wireless sales were to a
single customer.        As wireless communications have proliferated, consumers have demanded
capabilities beyond voice. Smartphones (phones that contain email, media, games
and computing capability) represent one of the fastest growing wireless markets.
These phones tend to include many semiconductor products. Major handset
manufacturers are actively pursuing the smartphone market and increasingly
focusing their R D on applications and services. As a result, we believe
customer demand for applications processors will grow as handset manufacturers
seek to differentiate their products by providing software and a unique user
experience. Our OMAP TM  product line has a leading position in the
applications processor market and is used by most of the top handset
manufacturers.        Our Wireless segment has been shifting focus from baseband chips, a
market with shrinking competitive barriers and slowing growth rates, to
applications processors, a market we expect will grow faster than the baseband
market. Consistent with this shift in market focus, we are concentrating our
Wireless investments on our applications processors and connectivity products.
We continue to sell custom baseband products but have discontinued further
development of merchant baseband products.  
   Other    Our Other segment includes revenue from smaller
semiconductor product lines and handheld graphing and scientific calculators,
and from royalties received for our patented technology that we license to other
electronics companies. The semiconductor products in our Other segment include
DLP  products (primarily used to create high-definition images for business and
home theater projectors, televisions and movie projectors), reduced-instruction
set computing (RISC) microprocessors (designed to provide very fast computing
and often implemented in servers) and custom semiconductors known as
application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). This segment accounted for
about 20 percent of our revenue in 2008.  
   Inventory    While our inventory practices differ by product, we
generally maintain inventory levels that are consistent with our expectations of
customer demand.        For custom semiconductor products, where the risk of obsolescence is
higher, we carry lower levels of inventory when possible. These products have a
single customer, are sold in high volumes and have comparatively shorter life
cycles. Life cycles of these products are often determined by end-equipment
upgrade cycles and can be as short as 12 to 24
months.        For
standard semiconductor products, where the risk of obsolescence is low, we
generally carry higher levels of inventory. These products usually have many
customers and long life cycles, and are often ordered in small quantities.
Standard product inventory is sometimes held in unfinished wafer form, giving us
greater flexibility to meet final package and test
configurations.        As a result of the following trends, we now tend to carry relatively
higher levels of inventory than in past years: standard products have become a
larger part of our portfolio; we have increased consignment programs with our
largest customers; and our distributors now carry relatively less inventory on
average than in the past.          We manage
calculator inventory consistent with expected seasonality.   
   Manufacturing    Semiconductor manufacturing begins with the wafer
fabrication manufacturing process: a sequence of photo-lithographic and chemical
processing steps that fabricate a number of semiconductor devices on a thin
silicon wafer. Each device on the wafer is tested and the wafer is cut into
pieces called chips. Each chip is assembled into a package that then may be
retested. The entire process typically requires between twelve and eighteen
weeks and takes place in highly specialized
facilities.        We own and operate semiconductor manufacturing sites in North America,
Asia and Europe. These facilities include high-volume wafer fabrication plants
and assembly/test sites. Our facilities require substantial investment to
construct and are largely fixed-cost   
  [ 38 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

assets once in operation. Because we
own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating
cost is fixed. In general, these costs do not decline with reductions in
customer demand or utilization of capacity and can adversely affect our profit
margins as a result. Conversely, as product demand rises and factory utilization
increases, the fixed costs are spread over increased output, potentially
benefiting our profit margins.        Most of our Analog semiconductors require a lower level
of capital investment in manufacturing and equipment than is needed for
equivalent production levels of our Embedded Processing and Wireless
semiconductors, which are manufactured using advanced logic wafer manufacturing
equipment. While analog chips benefit from unique, proprietary wafer
manufacturing processes, these processes can be applied using older, less
expensive equipment. In addition, these processes and equipment remain usable
for much longer than the manufacturing processes and equipment required for
advanced logic wafer
manufacturing.        To supplement our internal advanced logic wafer fabrication capacity,
maximize our responsiveness to customer demand and minimize our overall capital
expenditures, our wafer manufacturing strategy utilizes the capacity of outside
suppliers, commonly known as foundries. Our strategy involves installing
internal wafer fabrication capacity to a level we believe will remain fully
utilized over the equipment s useful lifetime and then outsourcing remaining
capacity needs to foundries. In 2008, external foundries provided about 50
percent of the fabricated wafers for our advanced logic manufacturing needs, but
during the fourth quarter of 2008, we significantly reduced our foundry
purchases. We expect the proportion of our advanced logic wafers provided by
foundries will increase over time. We expect to maintain sufficient internal
wafer fabrication capacity to meet substantially all our analog production
needs.        In
addition to using foundries to supplement our wafer fabrication capacity, we
selectively use subcontractors to supplement our assembly/test capacity. We
generally use subcontractors for assembly/test of products that would be less
cost-efficient to complete in-house (e.g., relatively low-volume products that
are unlikely to keep internal equipment fully utilized), or in the event demand
temporarily exceeds our internal capacity. We believe we often have a cost
advantage in maintaining internal assembly/test capacity. Accordingly, we have
nearly completed an environmentally efficient assembly/test facility in the
Philippines, and the facility is in the initial stages of
production.        This internal/external manufacturing strategy is designed to reduce the
level of our required capital expenditures, and thereby reduce our subsequent
levels of depreciation. Expected end results include less fluctuation in our
profit margins due to changing product demand, and lower cash requirements for
expanding and updating our manufacturing capabilities. As our internal
manufacturing efforts shift to a higher percentage of analog products, an
increasing proportion of our capital expenditures is devoted to assembly/test
facilities and equipment. This is primarily due to the lower capital needs of
analog wafer manufacturing equipment.   
   Product cycle    The global semiconductor market is characterized by
constant, though generally incremental, advances in product designs and
manufacturing methods. Chip prices and manufacturing costs tend to decline over
time as manufacturing methods and product life cycles mature. Typically, new
chips are produced in limited quantities at first and then ramp to high-volume
production over time. Consequently, new products tend not to have a significant
impact on revenue for one or more quarters after they are introduced. In the
discussion below, changes in our shipments are caused by changing demand for our
products unless otherwise noted.  
   Market cycle    The  semiconductor cycle  is an important concept that
refers to the ebb and flow of supply, with relatively stable demand. The
semiconductor market historically has been characterized by periods of tight
supply caused by strengthening demand and/or insufficient manufacturing
capacity, followed by periods of surplus inventory caused by weakening demand
and/or excess manufacturing capacity. This cycle is affected by the significant
time and money required to build and maintain semiconductor manufacturing
facilities.  
   Seasonality    Our revenue and operating results are subject to some
seasonal variation. Sales of our semiconductor products are seasonally weaker in
the first quarter than in other quarters, particularly for products sold into
cell phones and consumer electronics applications that have stronger sales later
in the year as manufacturers prepare for the holiday selling season. Calculator
revenue is tied to the U.S. back-to-school season and, as a result, is at its
highest in the second and third quarters. Royalty revenue is not always uniform
or predictable, in part due to the performance of our licensees and in part due
to the timing of new license agreements or the expiration and renewal of
existing agreements.   
   Tax
considerations    We operate in a number
of tax jurisdictions and are subject to several types of taxes including those
that are based on income, capital, property and payroll, as well as sales and
other transactional taxes. The timing of the final determination of our tax
liabilities varies among the various jurisdictions and their taxing authorities.
As a result, during any particular reporting period, we might reflect in our
financial statements one or more tax refunds or assessments, or changes to tax
liabilities, involving one or more taxing authorities.  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 39 ]  

Discontinued
operations    In January 2006, we
entered into a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of the former
Sensors   Controls segment to an affiliate of Bain Capital, LLC for $3
billion in cash (see Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional
information). The sale was completed on April 27, 2006.   
   Results of
operations   
   2008 compared with
2007    The year 2008 was marked by a
dramatic decrease in global demand for semiconductors in the second half, a
decline that accelerated in the fourth quarter. Given this significant change in
the economy, we are reducing costs and realigning our expenses and inventory so
that our financial performance will remain solid even in a period of prolonged
economic weakness. We have focused most of our cost reductions in our non-core
product areas and internal support functions. We will continue to invest
aggressively in Analog and Embedded Processing and in customer support. We
believe these areas will drive our future growth and allow us to achieve our
financial objectives.        The cost reduction actions include an employment
reduction, which we announced in January 2009, of 12 percent, through 1,800
layoffs and 1,600 voluntary retirements and departures. Charges for these
employment reductions will be about $300 million, a portion of which was
recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008. Annualized savings from these
reductions, plus those announced in October for the restructuring of the
company s Wireless business, will be about $700 million after all reductions are
complete in the third quarter of
2009.        We
expect our results in 2009 will be pressured by lower demand.  
   Statement of operations   selected
items   
  
   Details of 2008 financial
results    Revenue was $12.50 billion,
down $1.33 billion, or 10 percent, from 2007. As the year progressed and the
global economy weakened, the decline in our revenue accelerated and broadened.
In the fourth quarter all segments experienced double-digit declines compared
with the year-ago quarter.        Gross profit was $6.24 billion, or 50.0 percent of
revenue, down 15 percent from $7.37 billion in 2007. This decline was due to
lower revenue and, to a lesser extent, the impact of lower factory utilization
resulting from our efforts to reduce inventory. The decline affected all
segments. Last year s gross profit included a $39 million pre-tax gain on the
sale of our broadband digital subscriber line (DSL) customer-premises equipment
product line.  
  [ 40 ]     TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

Operating expenses were $1.94 billion for R D and $1.61 billion for
SG A. R D expense decreased $200 million, or 9 percent, from 2007 due to
the combination of expense reductions in Wireless and, to a lesser extent, the
benefit from our collaborative work with foundries on advanced logic
manufacturing technologies. We previously developed these manufacturing
technologies almost exclusively in-house. SG A expense decreased $66
million, or 4 percent, from 2007 due to the combination of lower
compensation-related expenses and lower expenses for consumer advertisements for
DLP high-definition television
products.        Restructuring charges of $254 million recognized in the fourth quarter of
2008 included $121 million for a portion of the employment actions described
above, $109 million for actions announced in October 2008 to re-focus our
Wireless segment and $24 million for asset impairments related to an action
announced in 2007 to shut down an older digital factory in connection with our
decision to work with foundries on advanced logic manufacturing technology. The
restructuring costs recognized consisted of $218 million for severance and
benefit costs and $36 million related to impairments of long-lived assets. 2007
restructuring costs relating to the factory shutdown were $52 million,
consisting of severance and benefit costs of $31 million and acceleration of
depreciation on the factory s assets of $21 million. See Note 2 to the Financial
Statements for additional
information.        Operating profit was $2.44 billion, or 19.5 percent of revenue, compared
with $3.50 billion, or 25.3 percent of revenue, in 2007. This was a 30 percent
decrease due to the decline in revenue and the associated lower gross profit,
the impact of underutilized manufacturing assets, and higher restructuring
charges. These more than offset a reduction in operating
expenses.        Other income (expense) net (OI E) was $44 million, a decrease of $151
million from 2007 primarily due to lower interest income. The decrease in
interest income from a year ago was primarily due to lower interest rates, and
to a lesser extent, lower average interest-bearing
investments.        The tax provision was $561 million, compared with $1.05 billion for the
prior year. The decrease was primarily due to lower income before income taxes.
The tax provision for 2008 contained net discrete tax benefits of $122 million,
primarily resulting from our decision to indefinitely reinvest the accumulated
earnings of a non-U.S. subsidiary. The tax provision for 2007 contained net
discrete tax benefits of $28 million. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for
a reconciliation of tax rates to the statutory federal tax
rate.        Our
annual effective tax rate for 2009 is estimated to be about 24 percent, a
decrease from 28 percent in 2008 primarily due to lower income before income
taxes.        Income from continuing operations was $1.92 billion, a decrease of $721
million from 2007. EPS for 2008 was $1.45 per share, compared with $1.83 per
share for 2007. The impact of restructuring costs reduced EPS by $0.12 per share
in 2008 and by $0.02 per share in 2007. EPS in 2008 benefited $0.12 from a lower
number of average shares outstanding as a result of our stock repurchase
program.        Orders were $11.86 billion, which was 13 percent lower than 2007. In the
fourth quarter of 2008, orders were $1.86 billion, which was 42 percent lower
than in the third quarter of 2008. The declines in both periods reflected lower
demand over a broad range of our products.  
   Segment
results    A detailed discussion of our
segment results appears below. See Note 17 to the Financial Statements for a
description of changes in our segments. When reviewing each segment s results,
bear in mind that restructuring charges negatively impacted each segment s
operating profit as follows:  
  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 41 ]  

Analog revenue was about even with
the prior year as growth in shipments of high-performance analog products was
more than offset by a decline in shipments of high-volume analog   logic
products.        Operating profit was $1.05 billion, or 21.6 percent of revenue. This was
a decrease of $498 million from 2007 due to lower gross profit, and to a lesser
extent, higher operating expenses. Higher operating expenses were primarily due
to continued investment in R D and SG A, reflecting the strategic
importance of this segment to our future growth.   
  
  Embedded Processing revenue grew 3
percent compared with 2007 due to increased shipments during the earlier part of
2008, although revenue declined during the fourth quarter. The increase in
revenue from 2007 was due to increased shipments of products for communications
infrastructure applications, and to a lesser extent, catalog products. These
increases more than offset lower revenue from a decline in shipments of products
for automotive applications.        Operating profit was $268 million, or 16.5 percent of
revenue. This was a decrease of $22 million compared with 2007 due to higher
restructuring charges.  
  
  Wireless revenue declined $812
million, or 19 percent, from 2007 primarily due to lower shipments of baseband
products, and to a lesser extent, lower shipments of OMAP application
processors. As announced in December 2006, LM Ericsson Telephone Company added a
second supplier of 3G basebands for handset applications, which began to affect
our results in the fourth quarter of 2007 and continued to do so in
2008.        Operating profit was $347 million, or 10.3 percent of revenue. This was a
decrease of $416 million from 2007 due to lower gross profit, and to a lesser
extent, higher restructuring costs. These decreases were partially offset by
lower operating expenses.        In October 2008, we announced we were exploring the
potential sale of our Wireless merchant baseband products operation. We have
since discontinued these efforts, as we concluded that a sale would not achieve
the same value that we believe we will accomplish by retaining this operation
and reducing the investment levels to the minimum required to support our
existing customer engagements. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements regarding
the associated costs and savings.  
  [ 42 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

Revenue from Other was $2.63 billion
in 2008. This was a decline of $495 million, or 16 percent, from 2007 due to, in
decreasing order, a decrease in shipments across a broad range of products, the
effect of the sale of our DSL customer-premises equipment product line in 2007
and lower royalties.        Operating profit for 2008 from Other was $772 million, or
29.3 percent of revenue. This was a decrease of $124 million compared with 2007
due to lower revenue.  
   Prior results of
operations   
   2007 compared with
2006     Certain amounts below have
been reclassified to conform to the current financial statement
presentation.         Revenue in 2007 was $13.83 billion, down $420 million, or 3 percent, from
2006. This decrease was primarily due to decreased shipments of RISC
microprocessors and DLP products, both of which are included in Other. In
addition, although our Wireless revenue benefited from increased shipments of
products used in cell phone applications, this benefit was insufficient to
offset normal price declines for those products. The collective declines in
these areas more than offset strong Analog growth from high-performance analog
products.        Gross profit was $7.37 billion, or 53.3 percent of revenue. This was an
increase of $110 million from 2006 due to the combination of a greater
percentage of revenue coming from more-profitable Analog and Wireless products,
and continued manufacturing cost
reductions.        Operating expenses were $2.14 billion for R D and $1.68 billion for
SG A. R D decreased $55 million from 2006 because we benefited from more
efficient development of advanced logic manufacturing process technologies
through our collaborative work with foundries. SG A for 2007 decreased $17
million from 2006.        Operating profit was $3.50 billion, or 25.3 percent of revenue. This was
an increase of $130 million, or 4 percent, from 2006 primarily due to strong
gross profit, and to a lesser extent, lower operating
expenses.        OI E was $195 million, a decrease of $63 million primarily due to
lower interest income. OI E in 2006 included benefits from a refund of state
sales tax and final settlement of matters related to grants from the Italian
government regarding our former memory
operations.        The tax provision was $1.05 billion, compared with $987 million for the
prior year. The increase was due to the expiration of the tax benefit for export
sales and, to a lesser extent, an increase in income before income taxes. These
increases were partially offset by a benefit from changes in net discrete tax
items. The tax provision for 2007 contained net discrete tax benefit items of
$28 million. The tax provision for 2006 contained net discrete tax expense items
of $14 million.        Income from continuing operations was $2.64 billion, about the same as
2006. Earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.83, up 8 percent
from 2006. The increase in earnings per share was due to fewer shares
outstanding as a result of our stock repurchases. Average diluted shares
outstanding decreased by 114 million shares from 2006, increasing earnings per
share by $0.13. Our product portfolio required less capital spending than in
past years and is comprised of higher-margin products. As a result, we generated
greater levels of cash that we have returned to shareholders through stock
repurchases and increased
dividends.        Income from discontinued operations was $16 million, compared with $1.70
billion in 2006, which included a $1.67 billion gain from the sale of our former
Sensors   Controls business. Earnings per share from discontinued operations
were $0.01, compared with $1.09.          Net income
was $2.66 billion, or $1.84 per share, compared with $4.34 billion or $2.78 per
share, in 2006.  
   Analog    Analog revenue in 2007 was $4.93 billion, an increase of
$181 million, or 4 percent, from 2006. The increase was due to increased
shipments of high-performance analog
products.        Operating profit was $1.55 billion, or 31.4 percent of revenue. This was
an increase of $93 million from 2006 due to higher gross profit partially offset
by higher operating expenses.  
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 43 ]  

Embedded
Processing    Embedded Processing
revenue in 2007 was $1.59 billion, an increase of $34 million, or 2 percent,
from 2006, primarily due to higher revenue from automotive
products.          Operating profit was $290 million,
or 18.3 percent of revenue. This was an increase of $37 million from 2006 due to
higher gross profit.   
   Wireless    Wireless revenue in 2007 was $4.19 billion, a decrease of
$113 million, or 3 percent, from 2006, as increased shipments of products sold
into cell phone applications were insufficient to offset normal price declines.
Also, the addition by the LM Ericsson Telephone Company of another supplier of
3G basebands for handset applications began to affect our results in the fourth
quarter of 2007.        Operating profit was $763 million, or 18.2 percent of revenue. This was
an increase of $128 million from 2006 due primarily to higher gross profit, and
to a lesser extent, lower operating expenses.   
   Other    Other revenue in 2007 was $3.12 billion, down $522
million, or 14 percent, from the prior year, primarily due to lower shipments of
RISC microprocessors and, to a lesser extent, of DLP products. Revenue was also
lower due to the divestiture of our DSL customer premises equipment product line
in the third quarter of 2007.          Operating
profit was $896 million, or 28.7 percent of revenue. This was a decrease of $128
million from 2006 due to lower revenue.  
   Financial
condition    At the end of 2008, total
cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments) was $2.54 billion,
down $384 million from the end of 2007. Total cash at year-end 2007 included
$1.04 billion of auction-rate securities, which were then classified as
short-term investments. Our remaining auction-rate securities of $482 million at
year-end 2008 are classified as long-term investments and are not included in
total cash at that date. See Notes 8 and 9 to the Financial Statements for
additional information.        Accounts receivable were $913 million at the end of 2008.
This was a decrease of $829 million compared with the end of 2007. Days sales
outstanding were 33 at the end of 2008, compared with 44 at the end of 2007. The
sharp decrease in accounts receivable reflects the significant decrease in
shipments to customers during the fourth quarter of 2008, particularly in
December.        Inventory was $1.38 billion at the
end of 2008, $43 million lower than a year ago, and a reduction of $200 million
from the end of the third quarter of 2008, reflecting the aggressive actions
taken to reduce our inventory. Days of inventory at the end of 2008 were 89,
compared with 79 at the end of 2007, as the reduction in inventory was less than
the decrease in our revenue.        For the year, depreciation was $1.02 billion, unchanged
from 2007. Due to lower revenue in 2008, depreciation rose to 8.2 percent of
revenue. Capital expenditures increased in 2008 as we continued to focus on
facilities and equipment for manufacturing Analog products. Capital expenditures
rose from 5.0 to 6.1 percent of revenue. However, during the fourth quarter we
constrained capital expenditures, as we do not need additional near-term
manufacturing in the current weak demand environment.  
   Liquidity and capital
resources    Our sources of liquidity
are cash flow from operations, cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments
and revolving credit facilities.        Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from
operations. Cash flow from operations for 2008 was $3.33 billion, a decrease of
$1.08 billion from the prior year primarily due to lower net income. Cash flow
in 2007 included receipt of a $390 million payment associated with a tax refund
from settlement of prior-year tax
matters.        We
have $1.05 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $1.49 billion of short-term
investments as of December 31, 2008. We have a multi-year $1 billion revolving
credit facility and a non-U.S. revolving credit facility of $175 million. See
Note 13 to the Financial Statements for additional information. As of December
31, 2008, these facilities were not being
utilized.        In 2008, investing activities used $1.18 billion in cash, primarily for
capital expenditures, and to a lesser extent, the net purchase of short-term
investments. For 2008, capital expenditures were $763 million, an increase of
$77 million from 2007 due to higher expenditures for facilities and equipment
for manufacturing Analog products.        For 2008, net cash used in financing activities was $2.43
billion, compared with $4.48 billion in 2007. We used $2.12 billion of cash to
repurchase 80 million shares of our common stock in 2008, compared with $4.89
billion used to repurchase 147 million shares of our common stock in 2007.
Dividends paid in 2008 of $537 million, compared with $425 million in 2007,
reflect the effect of increases in the quarterly dividend rate in the second and
fourth quarters of 2007, as well as an increase (to $0.11 per share) in the
fourth quarter of 2008. The effect of the dividend rate increases on total
dividends paid in 2008 was partially offset by the lower number of shares
outstanding. Employee exercises of TI stock options are also reflected in cash
from financing activities. In 2008, such exercises provided cash proceeds of
$210 million, compared with $761 million in 2007.          In April 2007, we retired $43 million of outstanding
8.75% notes upon maturity. We have no debt outstanding.   
  [ 44 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

In
2007, the board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $5
billion of our common stock. Cumulatively, our board of directors has authorized
$20 billion in stock repurchases since September 2004. At year-end 2008, $3.55
billion of these authorizations
remain.        We
believe we have the necessary financial resources and operating plans to fund
our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other
business requirements for at least the next 12 months.   
   Long-term contractual
obligations   

(a)  
      
      Includes minimum payments
      for leased facilities and equipment, as well as purchases of industrial
      gases under contracts accounted for as an operating lease.   

(b)  
      
      Includes payments under
      license agreements for electronic design automation software.   

(c)  
      
      Includes contractual
      arrangements with suppliers where there is a fixed non-cancellable payment
      schedule or minimum payments due with a reduced delivery schedule.
      Excluded from the table are cancellable arrangements. However, depending
      on when certain purchase arrangements may be cancelled, an additional $12
      million of cancellation penalties may be required to be paid, which are
      not reflected in the table.   

(d)  
      
      Includes the contributions
      expected to be made during 2009. Funding projections beyond 2009 are not
      practical to estimate due to the rules affecting tax-deductible
      contributions and the impact from the plans  asset performance, interest
      rates and potential U.S. and international legislation.   

(e)  
      
      Includes an estimate of
      payments under this plan for the liability that existed at December 31,
      2008.   

(f)  
      
      Excluded from the table
      above are $148 million of uncertain tax liabilities under FIN 48. These
      amounts have been excluded because of the difficulty in making reasonably
      reliable estimates of the timing of cash settlements with the respective
      taxing authorities.    
   Critical accounting
policies    In preparing our
consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States, we use statistical analyses, estimates
and projections that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures and may
vary from actual results. We consider the following accounting policies to be
both those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition
and that require the most subjective judgment. If actual results differ
significantly from management s estimates and projections, there could be a
significant effect on our financial statements.  
   Revenue
recognition    Revenue from sales of our
products is recognized upon shipment or delivery, depending upon the terms of
the sales order, provided that persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement
exists, title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer, the sales
amount is fixed or determinable and collection of the revenue is reasonably
assured. A portion of our sales is to distributors. We recognize revenue from
sales of our products to distributors upon delivery of product to the
distributors consistent with the above
principles.        We reduce revenue based on estimates of future credits to be granted to
customers. Credits are granted for reasons such as prompt payment discounts,
volume-based incentives, other special pricing arrangements and product returns
due to quality issues. Our estimates of future credits are based on historical
experience, analysis of product shipments and contractual arrangements with
customers.        Distributor revenue is recognized net of allowances, which are
management s estimates based on analysis of historical data, current economic
conditions and contractual terms. These allowances recognize the impact of
credits granted to distributors under certain programs common in the
semiconductor industry whereby distributors receive certain price adjustments to
meet individual competitive opportunities, or are allowed to return or scrap a
limited amount of product in accordance with contractual terms agreed upon with
the distributor, or receive price protection credits when our standard published
prices are lowered from the price the distributor paid for product still in its
inventory. Historical claims data are maintained for each of the programs, with
differences among geographic regions   
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 45 ]  

taken into consideration. We
continually monitor the actual claimed allowances against our estimates, and we
adjust our estimates as appropriate to reflect trends in distributor revenue and
inventory levels. Allowances are also adjusted when recent historical data do
not represent anticipated future
activity.        Our contractual agreements with our intellectual property licensees
determine the amount and timing of royalty revenue. Royalty revenue is
recognized when earned according to the terms of the agreements and when
realization of payment is considered probable by management. Where royalties are
based upon licensee sales, we recognize royalty revenue upon the sale by the
licensee of royalty-bearing products, as estimated by us, based on historical
experience and analysis of annual sales results of licensees. Estimates are
periodically adjusted as a result of reviews of reported results of licensees,
which reviews may take the form of independent audits. Where warranted, revenue
from licensees may be recognized on a cash
basis.        In
addition, we monitor collectibility of accounts receivable primarily through
review of the accounts receivable aging. When facts and circumstances indicate
the collection of specific amounts or from specific customers is at risk, we
assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, will
record a charge in the period such determination is made.  
   Income taxes    In determining net income for financial statement
purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments in the calculation of tax
provisions and the resultant tax liabilities, and in the recoverability of
deferred tax assets that arise from temporary differences between the tax and
financial statement recognition of revenue and
expense.        In
the ordinary course of global business, there may be many transactions and
calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. The calculation of tax
liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex
tax laws. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in
the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on an estimate of the ultimate
resolution of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due.
Although we believe the estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that
the final outcome of these matters will not be different than what is reflected
in the historical income tax provisions and
accruals.        As part of our financial process, we must assess the likelihood that our
deferred tax assets can be recovered. If recovery is not likely, the provision
for taxes must be increased by recording a reserve in the form of a valuation
allowance for the deferred tax assets that are estimated not to be ultimately
recoverable. In this process, certain relevant criteria are evaluated including
the existence of deferred tax liabilities that can be used to absorb deferred
tax assets, the taxable income in prior years that can be used to absorb net
operating losses and credit carrybacks, and taxable income in future years. Our
judgment regarding future taxable income may change due to market conditions,
changes in U.S. or international tax laws and other factors. These changes, if
any, may require material adjustments to the deferred tax assets and an
accompanying reduction or increase in net income in the period when such
determinations are made.        In addition to the factors described above, the effective
tax rate reflected in forward-looking statements is based on then-current tax
law. Significant changes during the year in enacted tax law could affect these
estimates.  
   Inventory valuation
allowances    Inventory is valued net of
allowances for unsalable or obsolete raw materials, work-in-process and finished
goods. Allowances are determined quarterly by comparing inventory levels of
individual materials and parts to historical usage rates, current backlog and
estimated future sales and by analyzing the age of inventory, in order to
identify specific components of inventory that are judged unlikely to be sold.
Allowances are also calculated quarterly for instances where inventoried costs
for individual products are in excess of market prices for those products. In
addition to this specific identification process, statistical allowances are
calculated for remaining inventory based on historical write-offs of inventory
for salability and obsolescence reasons. Inventory is written off in the period
in which disposal occurs. Actual future write-offs of inventory for salability
and obsolescence reasons may differ from estimates and calculations used to
determine valuation allowances due to changes in customer demand, customer
negotiations, technology shifts and other factors.   
   Impairment of long-lived
assets    We review long-lived assets
for impairment when certain indicators suggest the carrying amount may not be
recoverable. This review process primarily focuses on intangible assets from
business acquisitions; property, plant and equipment; and software for internal
use or embedded in products sold to customers. Factors considered include the
under-performance of an asset compared with expectations and shortened useful
lives due to planned changes in the use of the assets. Recoverability is
determined by comparing the carrying amount of long-lived assets to estimated
future undiscounted cash flows. If future undiscounted cash flows are less than
the carrying amount of the long-lived assets, an impairment charge would be
recognized for the excess of the carrying amount over fair value determined by
either a quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by utilizing a
discounted cash-flow technique. Additionally, in the case of assets that will
continue to be used in future periods, a shortened depreciable life may be
utilized if appropriate, resulting in accelerated amortization or depreciation
based upon the expected net realizable value of the asset at the date the asset
will no longer be utilized. Actual results may vary from estimates due to, among
other things, differences in operating results, shorter useful lives of assets
and lower market values for excess assets.  
  [ 46 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

Valuation of auction-rate
securities    The fair value of our
auction-rate securities is estimated using a discounted cash flow (DCF) model
that requires inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and
reflect significant management judgment. Assumptions used in preparing the DCF
model include estimates for the amount and timing of future interest and
principal payments and the rate of return required by investors to own these
securities in the current environment. In making these assumptions, we consider
relevant factors including: the formula for each security that defines the
interest rate paid to investors in the event of a failed auction; forward
projections of the interest rate benchmarks specified in such formulas; the
likely timing of principal repayments; the probability of full repayment
considering the guarantees by the U.S. Department of Education of the underlying
student loans, guarantees by other third parties, and additional credit
enhancements provided through other means; and, publicly available pricing data
for recently traded student loan asset-backed securities that are not subject to
auctions. Our estimate of the rate of return required by investors to own these
securities also considers the current reduced liquidity for auction-rate
securities. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for details of fair-value
measurements.  
   Changes in accounting
standards    See Note 10 to the
Financial Statements for a discussion of the impact of adopting SFAS 157,
   Fair Value Measurements   .        See Changes in Accounting Standards in Note 1 to the
Financial Statements for a discussion of new accounting and reporting standards
that have not yet been adopted.  
   Off-balance sheet
arrangements    As of December 31, 2008,
we had no significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item
303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.  
   Commitments and
contingencies    See Note 14 to the
Financial Statements for a discussion of our commitments and
contingencies.  
   Quantitative and qualitative
disclosures about market risk   
   Foreign exchange
risk    The U.S. dollar is the
functional currency for financial reporting. We use forward currency exchange
contracts to reduce the adverse earnings impact exchange rate fluctuations may
have on our non-U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures. For example, at
year-end 2008, we had forward currency exchange contracts outstanding with a
notional value of $600 million to hedge net balance sheet exposures (including
$187 million to sell euros, $34 million to sell British pounds and $263 million
to sell Japanese yen). Similar hedging activities existed at year-end
2007.        Because most of the aggregate non-U.S. dollar balance sheet exposure is
hedged by these forward currency exchange contracts, based on year-end 2008
balances and rates, a hypothetical 10 percent plus or minus fluctuation in
non-U.S. currency exchange rates would result in a pre-tax currency exchange
gain or loss of approximately $13 million.  
   Interest rate
risk    As of December 31, 2008 and
2007, we have no debt. Therefore, our primary exposure to changes in interest
rates is limited to the effects on the fair values of our investments in cash
equivalents and short-term investments. The effect of changes in interest rates
on the fair value of our cash equivalents and short-term investments has not
been material during 2008 or 2007 due to the primarily short-term duration of
our investments. A hypothetical increase or decrease of 100 basis points in the
applicable interest rates associated with these investments as of year-end 2008
would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $17 million and an increase
of approximately $15 million in the fair value of these securities, respectively
(in the instance of falling rates, the hypothetical change in value assumes that
no interest rate on any individual security could drop below zero). Because the
coupon rates applicable to our auction-rate securities reset every 7, 28 or 35
days to maximum rates indexed to short-term interest rate benchmarks defined for
each security, a change in the general level of interest rates is not expected
to cause a significant change in the fair value of our long-term investments in
those securities. While an increase in interest rates reduces the fair value of
the investment portfolio, we will not recognize the losses in other income
(expense) net unless the individual securities are sold prior to recovery or the
impairment is determined to be other-than-temporary.  
   Equity risk    Long-term investments at year-end 2008 include the
following:  
 
    Equity investments   includes non-marketable
  (non-publicly traded) equity securities. 
    Investments in venture capital funds  
  includes investments in limited partnerships (accounted for under either the
  equity or cost   methods). 
    Investments in mutual funds   includes mutual
  funds that were selected to generate returns that offset changes in
  certain   liabilities related to deferred
  compensation arrangements. The mutual funds hold a variety of debt and equity
  investments.   
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 47 ]  

Non-marketable equity securities and some venture capital funds are
stated at cost. Impairments deemed to be other-than-temporary are expensed in
net income. Investments in the remaining venture capital funds are stated using
the equity method. Investments in mutual funds are stated at fair value. Changes
in prices of the mutual fund investments are expected to offset related changes
in deferred compensation liabilities such that a 10 percent increase or decrease
in the investments  fair values would not materially affect operating results.
See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for details of equity and other long-term
investments.  

(a)  
          
      To conform to the 2008
      presentation, amounts have changed from the prior presentation due to the
      reclassification of restructuring costs previously reported in cost of
      revenue ($9 million for the first quarter, $11 million for the second
      quarter, $13 million for the third quarter and $4 million for the fourth
      quarter).    
  Included in the results above were
the following items:  

(a)  
          
      The U.S. federal research
      tax credit was reinstated in October 2008 and was retroactive to the
      beginning of 2008.   

(b)  
      
      See Note 2 to the Financial
      Statements for additional information.   

(c)  
      
      Reflects the gain on the
      sale of our broadband digital subscriber line (DSL) customer-premises
      equipment semiconductor product line to Infineon Technologies AG for $61
      million and recognizing a pre-tax gain of $39 million in cost of
      revenue.    
  [ 48 ]    TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT  

Common stock prices and
dividends    TI common stock is listed
on the New York Stock Exchange and traded principally in that market. The table
below shows the high and low closing prices of TI common stock as reported by
Bloomberg L.P. and the dividends paid per common share for each quarter during
the past two years.  

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2008 ANNUAL
REPORT    [ 49 ]  

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 9
 exhibit_21.htm
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Exhibit 21   
  TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT   
  The following are current subsidiaries of
the Registrant.   

Subsidiary and Name Under Which Business is
      Done    

Where Organized     
   
      Benchmarq Microelectronics
      Corporation of South Korea    
      
      Delaware  

Burr-Brown Europe Limited    
      
      United Kingdom     
   
      Burr-Brown International
      Holding Corporation    
      
      Delaware  

Butterfly Communications Inc.  

Delaware     
   
      Chipcon, Inc.  

California  

Integrated Circuit Designs,
      Inc.    
      
      Maryland     
   
      Telogy Networks,
      Inc.    
      
      Delaware  

Texas Instruments Asia Limited  

Delaware     
   
      Texas Instruments
      Australia Pty Limited    
      
      Australia  

Texas Instruments Belgium S.A.  

Belgium     
   
      Texas Instruments Berlin
      GmbH    
      
      Germany  

Texas Instruments Business Expansion
      GmbH    
      
      Germany     
   
      Texas Instruments Canada
      Limited    
      
      Canada     
   
      Texas Instruments China
      Incorporated    
       
      Delaware     
   
      Texas Instruments China
      Trading Limited    
      
      Hong Kong  

Texas Instruments (Cork)
      Limited    
      
      Ireland     
   
      Texas Instruments CZ,
      s.r.o.    
      
      Czech
      Republic     
   
      Texas Instruments de Mexico, S. de R.L. de
      C.V.    
      
      Mexico     
   
      Texas Instruments Denmark
      A/S    
      
      Denmark  

Texas Instruments Deutschland
      GmbH    
      
      Germany     
   
      Texas Instruments Espana,
      S.A.    
      
      Spain     
   
      Texas Instruments Foreign Sales
      Corporation    
      
      Barbados     
   
      Texas Instruments France
      S.A.    
      
      France     
   
      Texas Instruments Gesellschaft
      m.b.H.    
      
      Austria     
   
      Texas Instruments Holland
      B.V.    
      
      Netherlands  

Texas Instruments Hong Kong
      Limited    
      
      Hong Kong     
   
      Texas Instruments (India)
      Private Limited    
      
      India     
   
      Texas Instruments Insurance (Bermuda)
      Limited    
      
      Bermuda     
   
      Texas Instruments
      International Capital Corporation    
      
      Delaware  

Texas Instruments International Holding
      Company S.  R.L.    
      
      Luxembourg     
   
      Texas Instruments
      International Management Company S.  R.L.    
      
      Luxembourg  

Texas Instruments International (Overseas)
      Limited    
      
      United Kingdom     
   
      Texas Instruments
      International Trade Corporation    
      
      Delaware  

Texas Instruments International (U.S.A.)
      Inc.    
      
      Delaware     
   
      Texas Instruments
      (Ireland) Limited    
      
      Ireland  

Texas Instruments Israel Ltd.  

Israel     
   
      Texas Instruments Israel
      Trading (2003) Ltd.    
      
      Israel     
   
      Texas Instruments Japan Limited  

Japan     
   
      Texas Instruments Korea
      Limited    
      
      Korea     
   
      Texas Instruments Lehigh Valley
      Incorporated    
      
      Delaware     
   
      Texas Instruments
      Limited    
      
      United
      Kingdom     
   
      Texas Instruments Low Power Wireless San
      Diego Incorporated    
      
      Delaware     
   
      Texas Instruments Malaysia
      Sdn. Bhd.    
      
      Malaysia  

Texas Instruments Marketing   Finance
      GmbH   Co. KG    
      
      Germany     
   
      Texas Instruments
      Melbourne Incorporated    
      
      Florida  

Texas Instruments Northern Virginia
      Incorporated    
      
      Delaware     
   
      Texas Instruments Norway
      AS    
      
      Norway     
   
      Texas Instruments Norway ASA  

Norway     
   
      Texas Instruments
      Oy    
      
      Finland  

Texas Instruments Palo Alto
      Incorporated    
      
      California  

Texas Instruments
      (Philippines) LLC    
      Delaware  

Texas Instruments Richardson
      LLC    
      Delaware     
   
      Texas Instruments Santa
      Rosa Incorporated    
      California  

Texas Instruments Semiconductor Technologies
      (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.    
      China     
   
      Texas Instruments
      Semiconductores e Tecnologias Ltda.    
      Brazil     
   
      Texas Instruments (Shanghai) Co.,
      Ltd.    
      China     
   
      Texas Instruments
      Singapore (Pte) Limited    
      Singapore  

Texas Instruments Sunnyvale
      Incorporated    
      Delaware     
   
      Texas Instruments Taiwan
      Limited    
      Taiwan     
   
      Texas Instruments Trade   Investment
      Company S.A.    
      Panama     
   
      Texas Instruments Tucson
      Corporation    
      Delaware  

TI Europe Limited    
      United Kingdom    
   
      TI (Philippines),
      Inc.    
      Philippines  

Unitrode Corporation    
      Maryland     
   
      Unitrode-Maine    
      Maine  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 10
 exhibit_23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 23   
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM     
  We consent to the incorporation by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Texas Instruments Incorporated
of our reports dated February 20, 2009, with respect to the consolidated
financial statements of Texas Instruments Incorporated and the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting of Texas Instruments Incorporated,
included in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders of Texas Instruments
Incorporated.  
  We also consent to the incorporation by
reference in the following registration statements, and in the related
prospectuses thereto, of our reports dated February 20, 2009, with respect to
the consolidated financial statements of Texas Instruments Incorporated, and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Texas Instruments
Incorporated, incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2008: Registration Statements (Forms S-8) No.
33-42172, No. 33-54615, No. 33-61154, No. 333-07127 (as amended), No. 333-41913,
No. 333-41919, No. 333-31321 (as amended), No. 333-31323, No. 333-48389, No.
333-44662, No. 333-107759, No. 333-107760, No. 333-107761, and No. 333-127021;
Registration Statement (Forms S-3) No. 333-141048; and Registration Statements
(Forms S-4) No. 333-89433 (as amended), No. 333-87199, No. 333-80157 (as
amended), and No. 333-41030 (as amended).  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.A>
 11
 exhibit_31-a.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15(D)-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Exhibit 31(a)   
  CERTIFICATIONS  
  I, Richard K. Templeton, certify that:

1.  
      
      I have reviewed this
      report on Form 10-K of Texas Instruments Incorporated;   

2.  
            
      Based on my knowledge,
      this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
      omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
      misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.  
      
      Based on my knowledge,
      the financial statements, and other financial information included in this
      report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
      periods presented in this report;   

4.  
      
      The registrant s other
      certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
      reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for
      the registrant and have:   

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and
      procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
      designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
      relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
      made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this report is being prepared;   

(b) Designed such internal control over
      financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
      reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
      assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
      preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles;   

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
      registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this
      report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
      and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based
      on such evaluation; and   

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in
      the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
      during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
      fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
      affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
      internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.  
      
      The registrant s other
      certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
      evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
      directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

(a) All significant deficiencies and
      material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
      financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
      registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
      information; and   

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material,
      that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in
      the registrant s internal control over financial
  reporting.    
  Date: February 24, 2009     

/s/ Richard K.
      Templeton    
   
       Richard K.
      Templeton      
   
       Chairman,
      President and      
   
       Chief
      Executive Officer       

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 12
 exhibit_31-b.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15(D)-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Exhibit 31(b)   
  CERTIFICATIONS     
  I, Kevin P. March, certify that:

1.  
      
      I have reviewed this
      report on Form 10-K of Texas Instruments Incorporated;   

2.  
            
      Based on my knowledge,
      this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
      omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
      misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.  
      
      Based on my knowledge,
      the financial statements, and other financial information included in this
      report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
      periods presented in this report;   

4.  
      
      The registrant s other
      certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
      reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
      the registrant and have:   

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and
      procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
      designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
      relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
      made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this report is being prepared;   

(b) Designed such internal control over
      financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
      reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
      assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
      preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles;   

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
      registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this
      report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
      and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based
      on such evaluation; and   

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in
      the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
      during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
      fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
      affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
      internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.  
      
      The registrant s other
      certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
      evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
      directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

(a) All significant deficiencies and
      material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
      financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
      registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
      information; and   

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material,
      that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in
      the registrant s internal control over financial
  reporting.    
  Date: February 24, 2009     

/s/ Kevin P.
      March    
   
       Kevin P.
      March     
   
       Senior
      Vice President and      
   
       Chief
      Financial Officer       

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 13
 exhibit_32-a.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Exhibit 32(a)   
  Certification of Periodic
Report   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350
    
  For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the
undersigned, Richard K. Templeton, President and Chief Executive Officer of
Texas Instruments Incorporated (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his
knowledge:  
       (i) the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
 Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  
       (ii) the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  
  Dated: February 24, 2009     

/s/ Richard K.
      Templeton     
   
       Richard K.
      Templeton      
   
       Chairman,
      President and      
   
       Chief
      Executive Officer       

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 14
 exhibit_32-b.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Exhibit 32(b)   
  Certification of Periodic
Report   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350
    
  For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the
undersigned, Kevin P. March, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of Texas Instruments Incorporated (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his
knowledge:  
       
 (i) the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
December 31, 2008, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  
       (ii) the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  
  Dated: February 24, 2009     

/s/ Kevin P.
      March     
   
       Kevin P.
      March     
   
       Senior Vice
      President and      
   
       Chief
      Financial Officer       

</EX-32.B>

