<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100223_10-K_edgar_data_97476_0001140361-10-007923_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>8104698</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>330354</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>161746</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2511447</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>2296005</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2294466</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>77</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>17</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001140361-10-007923.hdr.sgml : 20100223
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100223142533
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001140361-10-007923
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100223
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100223

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000097476
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				750289970
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03761
		FILM NUMBER:		10625332

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 660199
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75266
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9729953773

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		12500 TI BLVD
		STREET 2:		PO BOX 660199
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75266

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WwZicrFbEkhQpt4+c8ihYW9+3Hh/QZWgv3cYqkwDVwipo/fS7wAL7b3C91/+lKEW
 UyC4GJrYYn+WOCxA5leb6w==

 0001140361-10-007923.txt : 20100223

10-K
 1
 form10k.htm
 TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 10-K 12-31-2009

form10k.htm 

UNITED
STATES 

      SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

      Washington,
D.C.  20549 

FORM
10-K 

(mark
one) 

For the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 

OR 

for the
transition period from ___________ to ___________ 

Commission
File Number 1-3761 

TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED 

      (Exact
name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant s
Telephone Number, Including Area Code: 972-995-3773 

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title
      of each class 

Name
      of each exchange on which registered 

Common
      Stock, par value $1.00 

New
      York Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:  None 

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 

      Yes  S   No

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. 

      Yes      No  S  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  Yes  S  No     

Insert by
check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted
and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter)
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to submit and post such files). 

      Yes  S  No     

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.   S  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer,  a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company.  See the definitions of  large accelerated filer, 
 accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act. (Check one): 

Large
      accelerated filer  S  

Accelerated
      filer     

Non-accelerated
      filer     

Smaller
      reporting company     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 

      Yes      No  S  

The
aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant
was approximately $26,413,333,167 as of June 30, 2009. 

1,241,888,536 (Number
of shares of common stock outstanding as of January 31, 2010) 

Parts I,
II and IV hereof incorporate information by reference to the Registrant s 2009
annual report to stockholders.  Part III hereof incorporates
information by reference to the Registrant s proxy statement for the 2010 annual
meeting of stockholders. 

PART
I 

ITEM
      1. 

Business. 

Company
Overview  

At TI, we
design and make semiconductors that we sell to electronics designers and
manufacturers all over the world.  We began operations in
1930.  We are incorporated in Delaware, headquartered in Dallas,
Texas, and have design, manufacturing or sales operations in more than 30
countries.  We have four segments: Analog, Embedded Processing,
Wireless and Other.  We expect Analog and Embedded Processing to be
our primary growth engines in the years ahead, and we therefore focus our
resources on these segments. 

We were
the world s fourth largest semiconductor company in 2009 as measured by revenue,
according to preliminary estimates from an external
source.  Additionally, we sell calculators and related
products. 

Financial
information with respect to our segments and our operations outside the United
States is contained in the note to the financial statements captioned  Segment
and geographic area data  on pages 29 and 30 of TI s 2009 annual report to
stockholders.  It is incorporated herein by reference to such annual
report. 

Product
Information 

Semiconductors
are electronic components that serve as the building blocks inside modern
electronic systems and equipment.  Semiconductors come in two basic
forms: individual transistors and integrated circuits (generally known as
 chips ) that combine multiple transistors on a single piece of material to form
a complete electronic circuit.    Our semiconductors are
used to accomplish many different things, such as converting and amplifying
signals, interfacing with other devices, managing and distributing power,
processing data, canceling noise and improving signal resolution.  Our
portfolio includes products that are integral to almost all electronic
equipment. 

We sell
custom and standard semiconductor products.  Custom products are
designed for a specific customer for a specific application, are sold only to
that customer and are typically sold directly to the customer.  The
life cycles of custom products are generally determined by end-equipment upgrade
cycles and can be as short as 12 to 24 months.  Standard products are
designed for use by many customers and/or many applications and are generally
sold through both distribution and direct channels.  They include both
proprietary and commodity products.  The life cycles of standard
products are generally longer than for custom products. 

Additional
information regarding each segment s products follows. 

Analog 

Analog
semiconductors change real-world signals   such as sound, temperature, pressure
or images   by conditioning them, amplifying them and often converting them to a
stream of digital data that can be processed by other semiconductors, such as
digital signal processors (DSPs).  Analog semiconductors are also used
to manage power distribution and consumption.  Sales to our Analog
segment s nearly 80,000 customers generated about 40 percent of our revenue in
2009.  According to external sources, the worldwide market for analog
semiconductors was about $32 billion in 2009.  Our Analog segment s
revenue in 2009 was $4.3 billion, or about 13 percent of this market, the
leading position.  We believe that we are well-positioned to increase
our market share over time. 

Our
Analog product lines are:  high-performance analog, high-volume analog
  logic and power management. 

High-performance
analog products:  These include standard analog semiconductors, such
as amplifiers, data converters and interface semiconductors (our portfolio
includes more than 15,000 products), that we market to many different customers
who use them in manufacturing a wide range of products sold in many end markets,
including the industrial, communications, computing and consumer electronics
markets.  High-performance analog products generally have long life
cycles, often more than 10 years. 

High-volume
analog   logic products:  High-volume analog includes products for
specific applications, including custom products.  The life cycles of
our high-volume analog products are generally shorter than those of our
high-performance analog products.  End markets for high-volume analog
products include communications, automotive, computing and many consumer
electronics products.  Logic and standard linear includes commodity
products marketed to many different customers for many different
applications. 

2 

Power
management products:  These include both standard and custom
semiconductors that help customers manage power in any type of electronic
system.  We design and manufacture power management semiconductors for
both portable devices (battery-powered devices, such as handheld consumer
electronics, laptop computers and cordless power tools) and line-powered systems
(products that require an external electrical source, such as computers, digital
TVs, wireless base stations and high-voltage industrial equipment). 

Embedded
Processing 

Our
Embedded Processing products include our DSPs (other than DSPs specific to our
Wireless segment) and microcontrollers.  DSPs perform mathematical
computations almost instantaneously to process or improve digital
data.  Microcontrollers are designed to control a set of specific
tasks for electronic equipment.  Sales of Embedded Processing products
generated about 15 percent of our revenue in 2009.  The worldwide
market for embedded processors was about $14 billion in
2009.  According to external sources, we have about 11 percent share
in this fragmented market, and we believe we are well-positioned to increase our
market share over time. 

An
important characteristic of our Embedded Processing products is that our
customers often invest their own research and development (R D) to write
software that operates on our products.  This investment tends to
increase the length of our customer relationships because customers prefer to
re-use software from one product generation to the next.  We make and
sell standard, or catalog, Embedded Processing products used in many different
applications and custom Embedded Processing products used in specific
applications, such as communications infrastructure equipment and
automotive. 

Wireless 

Cell
phones require a modem or  baseband  to connect to the wireless carrier s
network.  Many of today s advanced cell phones, which contain email,
media, games and computing capability, also require an applications processor to
run the phone s software and services, and semiconductors to enable connectivity
to Bluetooth   
devices, WiFi networks or GPS location services.  We design, make and
sell products to satisfy each of these requirements.  Wireless
products are typically sold in high volumes, and our Wireless portfolio includes
both standard products and custom products.  Sales of Wireless
products generated about 25 percent of our revenue in 2009, and a significant
portion of our Wireless sales were to a single customer. 

Our
Wireless segment has shifted focus from baseband chips, a market with shrinking
competitive barriers and slowing growth rates, to applications processors and
connectivity products, markets we expect will grow faster than the baseband
market.  Consistent with this shift in market focus, we are
concentrating our Wireless investments on our OMAP TM 
applications processors and connectivity products and have discontinued further
development of standard baseband products.  While we continue to sell
custom baseband products, we have discontinued essentially all custom baseband
investment.  We expect substantially all of our baseband revenue,
which was $1.73 billion in 2009, to cease by the end of 2012. 

Other 

Our Other
segment includes revenue from sales from our smaller semiconductor product lines
and of our handheld graphing and scientific calculators, as well as royalties
received for our patented technology that we license to other electronics
companies.  The semiconductor products in our Other segment include
DLP  products (primarily used in projectors to create high-definition images),
reduced-instruction set computing (RISC) microprocessors (designed to provide
very fast computing and often implemented in servers) and custom semiconductors
known as application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs).  This
segment generated about 20 percent of our revenue in 2009. 

Applications for our
products  

The table
below lists the major end markets that use our products and the approximate
percentage of our product revenue that the market represents.  The
chart also lists the most frequent applications and our products used within
these key markets. 

3 

End
      Market 

Applications 

TI
      Products 

Communications 

                (45%
      of product 

                revenue) 

Phones
      and infrastructure equipment 

                Mobile
      connectivity solutions (including wireless LAN, global positioning
      systems, Bluetooth   ) 

Analog,
      Embedded Processing, Wireless, Other 

Computing 

                (23%
      of product 

                revenue) 

Printers 

                Hard
      disk drives 

                Monitors
      and projectors 

                Notebooks,
      netbooks, desktop computers and servers 

Analog,
      Embedded Processing, Other 

Industrial 

                (11%
      of product 

                revenue) 

Digital
      power controls: 

                Switch
      mode power supplies 

                Uninterruptible
      power supplies 

                Motor
      controls: 

                Heating/ventilation/air
      conditioning 

                Industrial
      control motor drives 

                Power
      tools 

                Printers/copiers 

                Security: 

                Biometrics
      (fingerprint identification and authentication) 

                Intelligent
      sensing (smoke and glass-breakage detection) 

                Video
      analytics (surveillance) 

Analog,
      Embedded Processing, Other 

Consumer
      Electronics 

                (11%
      of product 

                revenue) 

Digital
      cameras, gaming and audio/visual equipment 

                Medical
      (personal and portable medical devices, medical imagery) 

                Portable
      and car audio 

                Home
      appliances 

                Personal
      navigation devices 

                eBook
      readers 

Analog,
      Embedded Processing, Wireless, Other 

Automotive 

                (6%
      of product 

                revenue) 

Body
      systems 

                Chassis
      systems 

                Driver
      information/telemetrics 

                Entertainment 

                Powertrain 

                Safety
      systems 

                Security
      systems 

Analog,
      Embedded Processing, Other 

Education 

                (4%
      of product 

                revenue) 

Handheld
      graphing and scientific calculators 

                Educational
      software 

Other 

Market
Characteristics 

Product
cycle  

The
global semiconductor market is characterized by constant, though generally
incremental, advances in product designs and manufacturing
processes.  Semiconductor prices and manufacturing costs tend to
decline over time as manufacturing processes and product life cycles
mature.  Typically, new chips are produced in limited quantities at
first and then ramp to high-volume production over time. 

Market
cycle  

The
 semiconductor cycle  is an important concept that refers to the ebb and flow of
supply.  The semiconductor market historically has been characterized
by periods of tight supply caused by strengthening demand and/or insufficient
manufacturing capacity, followed by periods of surplus inventory caused by
weakening demand and/or excess manufacturing capacity.  This cycle is
affected by the significant time and money required to build and maintain
semiconductor manufacturing facilities. 

4 

Seasonality  

Our
revenue and operating results are subject to some seasonal
variation.  Our semiconductor sales generally are seasonally weaker in
the first quarter than in other quarters, particularly for products sold into
cell phones and other consumer electronics devices, which have stronger sales
later in the year as manufacturers prepare for the major holiday selling
seasons.  Calculator revenue is tied to the U.S. back-to-school season
and is therefore at its highest in the second and third
quarters.  Royalty revenue is not always uniform or predictable, in
part due to the performance of our licensees and in part due to the timing of
new license agreements or the expiration and renewal of existing
agreements. 

Competitive
landscape  

In each
segment, we face significant global competition from numerous large and small
companies, including both broad-based suppliers and niche
suppliers.  We believe that competitive performance in the
semiconductor market generally depends on several factors, including the breadth
of a company s product line, technological innovation, technical support,
customer service, quality, reliability, price and scale.  With
expertise in both analog and embedded processing , we believe we are capable of
providing best-in-class solutions and system-level knowledge to help our
customers create more advanced systems and products and bring their products to
market sooner. 

The
primary competitive factors for our Analog products include design proficiency,
a diverse product portfolio to meet wide-ranging customer needs, manufacturing
process technologies that provide differentiated levels of performance and
manufacturing expertise.  Our primary Analog competitors include
Analog Devices, Inc.; Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.; Infineon Technologies AG;
Intersil Corporation; Linear Technology Corporation; Maxim Integrated Products,
Inc.; National Semiconductor Corporation; NXP B.V.; Richtek Technology
Corporation; and STMicroelectronics NV. 

The
primary competitive factors for our Embedded Processing products are the ability
to design and cost-effectively manufacture products, system-level knowledge
about targeted end markets, installed base of software, software expertise,
applications support and a product s performance and power
characteristics.  Primary competitors of our Embedded Processing
segment include Atmel Corporation; Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.; Microchip
Technology, Inc.; NEC Electronics; Renesas Technology Corp.; and
STMicroelectronics NV. 

The
primary competitive factors for our Wireless products are the ability to design
and cost-effectively manufacture products, system-level knowledge about targeted
end markets, installed base of software, software expertise, applications
support and a product s performance and power
characteristics.  Primary Wireless competitors include Broadcom Corp.;
CSR plc; Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.; Infineon Technologies AG; Intel
Corporation; Marvell Technology Group, Ltd.; NVIDIA Corporation; QUALCOMM
Incorporated and ST-Ericsson. 

Manufacturing 

Semiconductor
manufacturing begins with a sequence of photo-lithographic and chemical
processing steps that fabricate a number of semiconductor devices on a thin
silicon wafer.  Each device on the wafer is tested and the wafer is
cut into pieces called chips.  Each chip is assembled into a package
that then may be retested.  The entire process typically requires
between 12 and 18 weeks and takes place in highly specialized
facilities. 

We own
and operate semiconductor manufacturing facilities in North America, Asia and
Europe.  These include both high-volume wafer fabrication and
assembly/test facilities.  Our facilities require substantial
investment to construct and are largely fixed-cost assets once in
operation.  Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a
significant portion of our operating cost is fixed.  In general, these
fixed costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or utilization of
capacity, potentially hurting our profit margins.  Conversely, as
product demand rises and factory utilization increases, the fixed costs are
spread over increased output, potentially benefiting our profit
margins. 

The cost
and lifespan of the equipment and processes we use to manufacture semiconductors
varies by product.  Our Analog products and most of our Embedded
Processing products can be manufactured using older, less expensive equipment
than is needed for manufacturing advanced logic products, such as our Wireless
products.  Advanced logic wafer manufacturing continually requires new
and expensive processes and equipment.  In contrast, the processes and
equipment required for manufacturing our Analog products and most of our
Embedded Processing products do not have this requirement. 

To
supplement our internal wafer fabrication capacity and maximize our
responsiveness to customer demand and return on capital expenditures, our wafer
manufacturing strategy utilizes the capacity of outside suppliers, commonly
known as foundries.  Our strategy involves installing internal wafer
fabrication capacity to a level we believe will remain fully utilized over the
equipment s useful lifetime and then outsourcing remaining capacity needs to
foundries.  In 2009, external foundries provided about 55 percent of
the fabricated wafers for our advanced logic manufacturing needs.  We
expect the proportion of our advanced logic wafers provided by foundries will
increase over time.  We expect to maintain sufficient internal wafer
fabrication capacity to meet the vast majority of our analog production
needs. 

5 

In
addition to using foundries to supplement our wafer fabrication capacity, we
selectively use subcontractors to supplement our assembly/test
capacity.  We generally use subcontractors for assembly/test of
products that would be less cost-efficient to complete in-house (e.g.,
relatively low-volume products that are unlikely to keep internal equipment
fully utilized), or when demand temporarily exceeds our internal
capacity.  We believe we often have a cost advantage in maintaining
internal assembly/test capacity. 

Our
internal/external manufacturing strategy reduces the level of our required
capital expenditures, and thereby reduces our subsequent levels of depreciation
below what it would be if we sourced all manufacturing
internally.  Consequently, we experience less fluctuation in our
profit margins due to changing product demand, and lower cash requirements for
expanding and updating our manufacturing capabilities. 

In 2009,
to expand our existing wafer fabrication capacity, we began installing equipment
in the industry s first 300-millimeter analog wafer factory, located in
Richardson, Texas, and are currently qualifying for production.  We
also opened a new assembly/test facility in the Philippines to significantly
increase our assembly/test capacity. 

Inventory 

Our
inventory practices differ by product, but we generally maintain inventory
levels that are consistent with our expectations of customer
demand.  Because of the longer product life cycles of standard
products and their inherently lower risk of obsolescence, we generally carry
more of those products than custom products.  Additionally, we
sometimes maintain standard-product inventory in unfinished wafer form, allowing
greater flexibility to meet final package and test configurations. 

As a
result of two multi-year trends, in general we expect to carry higher levels of
inventory relative to our revenue expectations (commonly viewed by investors as
days of inventory) than in past years.  First, standard products have
become a larger part of our portfolio.  Second, we have increased
consignment programs for our largest customers and some distributors and, as a
result, we now carry more inventory on average than in the past in order to
service the needs of these customers. 

Design
Centers 

Our
design centers provide design, engineering and product application support as
well as after-sales customer service.  The design centers are
strategically located around the world to take advantage of key technical and
engineering talent and proximity to key customers. 

Customers 

Our
products are sold to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design
manufacturers (ODMs), contract manufacturers and distributors.  (An
OEM designs and sells products under its own brand that it manufactures in-house
or has manufactured by others.  An ODM designs and manufactures
products for other companies, which then sell those products under their own
brand.)  Our largest single customer in 2009 was an OEM, the Nokia
group of companies.  Sales to Nokia were about 20 percent of our
revenue in 2009, and a majority of this revenue was in our Wireless
segment. 

Sales
and Distribution 

We market
and sell our semiconductor products through a direct sales force, distributors
and authorized third-party sales representatives.  We have sales or
marketing offices in over 30 countries worldwide and have expanded our sales
networks in the emerging markets of China, India and Eastern Europe over the
last few years.  Distributors located around the world account for
about 30 percent of our revenue.  Our distributors maintain an
inventory of our products and sell directly to a wide range of
customers.  They also sell products from our
competitors.  Our distribution network holds a mix of
distributor-owned and TI-consigned inventory.  Over time, we expect
this mix will shift more toward consignment.  We sell our calculator
products primarily through retailers and instructional dealers. 

6 

Acquisitions,
Divestitures and Investments 

From time
to time we consider acquisitions and divestitures that may strengthen or better
focus our business portfolio.  We also make investments directly or
indirectly in private companies.  Investments are focused primarily on
next-generation technologies and markets strategic to us. 

Backlog 

We define
backlog as of a particular date as firm purchase orders with a
customer-requested delivery date within a specified length of
time.  As customer requirements and industry conditions change, orders
may be, under certain circumstances, subject to cancellation or modification of
terms such as pricing, quantity or delivery date.  Customer order
placement practices continually evolve based on customers  individual business
needs and capabilities, as well as industry supply and capacity
considerations.  Accordingly, our backlog at any particular date may
not be indicative of revenue for any future period.  Our backlog of
orders was $1.79 billion at December 31, 2009, and $0.86 billion at December 31,
2008. 

Raw
Materials 

We
purchase materials, parts and supplies from a number of suppliers.  In
some cases we purchase such items from sole source suppliers.  The
materials, parts and supplies essential to our business are generally available
at present, and we believe that such materials, parts and supplies will be
available in the foreseeable future. 

Intellectual
Property 

We own
many patents, and have many patent applications pending, in the United States
and other countries in fields relating to our business.  We have
developed a strong, broad-based patent portfolio and continually add patents to
that portfolio.  We also have agreements with numerous companies
involving license rights and anticipate that other license agreements may be
negotiated in the future.  In general, our license agreements have
multi-year terms and may be renewed after renegotiation. 

Our
semiconductor patent portfolio is an ongoing contributor to our
revenue.  We do not consider our business materially dependent upon
any one patent or patent license, although taken as a whole, our rights and the
products made and sold under patents and patent licenses are important to our
business. 

We often
participate in industry initiatives to set technical standards.  Our
competitors may also participate in the same
initiatives.  Participation in these initiatives may require us to
license our patents to other companies. 

We own
trademarks that are used in the conduct of our business.  These
trademarks are valuable assets, the most important of which are  Texas
Instruments  and our corporate monogram.  Other valuable trademarks
include OMAP TM  and
DLP   . 

Research
and Development 

Our
primary area of R D investment is Analog and Embedded Processing
products.  We conduct most of our R D
internally.  However, we also closely engage with a wide range of
universities and select external industry consortia, and we collaborate with our
foundry suppliers on semiconductor manufacturing technology. 

From time
to time we may terminate R D projects before completion or decide not to
manufacture and sell a developed product.  We do not expect that all
of our R D projects will result in products that are ultimately released for
sale, or that our projects will contribute significant revenue until at least a
few years following completion. 

Our
R D expense was $1.48 billion in 2009, compared with $1.94 billion in 2008
and $2.14 billion in 2007.  The recent decrease in our R D expense
is largely the result of our decisions to discontinue R D for advanced logic
manufacturing and Wireless baseband products. 

7 

Executive
Officers of the Registrant 

The
following is an alphabetical list of the names and ages of the executive
officers of the company and the positions or offices with the company presently
held by each person named: 

Name 

Age 

Position 

Stephen
      A. Anderson 

48 

Senior
      Vice President 

R.
      Gregory Delagi 

47 

Senior
      Vice President 

Arthur
      L. George, Jr. 

48 

Senior
      Vice President 

Michael
      J. Hames 

51 

Senior
      Vice President 

David
      K. Heacock 

49 

Senior
      Vice President 

Joseph
      F. Hubach 

52 

Senior
      Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel 

Melendy
      E. Lovett 

51 

Senior
      Vice President (President, Education Technology) 

Gregg
      A. Lowe 

47 

Senior
      Vice President 

Kevin
      P. March 

52 

Senior
      Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Robert
      K. Novak 

44 

Senior
      Vice President 

Kevin
      J. Ritchie 

53 

Senior
      Vice President 

John
      J. Szczsponik, Jr. 

49 

Senior
      Vice President 

Richard
      K. Templeton 

51 

Director;
      Chairman of the Board; President and Chief Executive
    Officer 

Teresa
      L. West 

49 

Senior
      Vice President 

Darla
      H. Whitaker 

44 

Senior
      Vice President 

The term
of office of the above-listed officers is from the date of their election until
their successor shall have been elected and qualified.  All executive
officers of the company have been employees of the company for more than five
years.  Mses. Lovett and West and Messrs. Hames, Hubach, Lowe, March,
Ritchie and Templeton have served as executive officers of the company for more
than five years.  Mr. George and Ms. Whitaker became executive
officers of the company in 2006.  Messrs. Delagi and Heacock became
executive officers of the company in 2007.  Messrs. Anderson and Novak
became executive officers of the company in 2008.  Mr. Szczsponik
became an executive officer of the company in 2009. 

Employees 

At
December 31, 2009, we had 26,584 employees. 

Available
Information 

Our
Internet address is www.ti.com.  Information on our web site is not a
part of this report.  We make available, free of charge, through our
investor relations web site our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and
amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
filed with the SEC.  Also available through the TI investor relations
web site are reports filed by our directors and executive officers on Forms 3, 4
and 5, and amendments to those reports. 

Available
on our web site at www.ti.com/corporategovernance are: (i) our Corporate
Governance Guidelines; (ii) charters for the Audit, Compensation, and Governance
and Stockholder Relations Committees of our board of directors; (iii) our Code
of Business Conduct; and (iv) our Code of Ethics for TI Chief Executive Officer
and Senior Financial Officers.  Stockholders may request copies of
these documents free of charge by writing to Texas Instruments Incorporated,
P.O. Box 660199, MS 8657, Dallas, Texas, 75266-0199, Attention: Investor
Relations. 

ITEM
      1A. 

Risk
      Factors. 

You
should read the following Risk Factors in conjunction with the factors discussed
elsewhere in this and other of our filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) and in materials incorporated by reference in these
filings.  These Risk Factors are intended to highlight certain factors
that may affect our financial condition and results of operations and are not
meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that apply to companies like TI
with broad international operations.  Like other companies, we are
susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may
affect the general economic climate and our performance and the performance of
our customers.  Similarly, the price of our securities is subject to
volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, actual financial
results that do not meet our and/or the investment community s expectations,
changes in our and/or the investment community s expectations for our future
results and other factors, many of which are beyond our
control. 

8 

Cyclicality in the
Semiconductor Market May Affect Our Performance.  

Semiconductor
products are the principal source of our revenue.  The semiconductor
market historically has been cyclical and subject to significant and often rapid
increases and decreases in product demand.  These changes could have
adverse effects on our results of operations, and on the market price of our
securities.  The results of our operations may be adversely affected
in the future if demand for our semiconductors decreases or if this market or
key end-equipment markets grow at a significantly slower pace than management
expects. 

Our Margins May Vary over
Time.  

Our
profit margins may be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors,
including decreases in our shipment volume, reductions in, or obsolescence of
our inventory and shifts in our product mix.  In addition, the highly
competitive market environment in which we operate might adversely affect
pricing for our products.  Because we own much of our manufacturing
capacity, a significant portion of our operating costs is fixed.  In
general, these fixed costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or
utilization of manufacturing capacity, and can adversely affect profit margins
as a result. 

The Technology Industry Is
Characterized by Rapid Technological Change That Requires Us to Develop New
Technologies and Products.  

Our
results of operations depend in part upon our ability to successfully develop,
manufacture and market innovative products in a rapidly changing technological
environment.  We require significant capital to develop new
technologies and products to meet changing customer demands that, in turn, may
result in shortened product life cycles.  Moreover, expenditures for
technology and product development are generally made before the commercial
viability for such developments can be assured.  As a result, there
can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and market these new
products.  There also is no assurance that the products we do develop
and market will be well received by customers, nor that we will realize a return
on the capital expended to develop such products. 

We Face Substantial
Competition That Requires Us to Respond Rapidly to Product Development and
Pricing Pressures.  

We face
intense technological and pricing competition in the markets in which we
operate.  We expect this competition will continue to increase from
large competitors and from smaller competitors serving niche
markets.  Certain of our competitors possess sufficient financial,
technical and management resources to develop and market products that may
compete favorably against our products.  The price and product
development pressures that result from competition may lead to reduced profit
margins and lost business opportunities in the event that we are unable to match
the price declines or cost efficiencies, or meet the technological, product,
support, software or manufacturing advancements of our competitors. 

Our Performance Depends in
Part on Our Ability to Enforce Our Intellectual Property Rights and to Develop
and License New Intellectual Property.  

Access to
worldwide markets depends in part on the continued strength of our intellectual
property portfolio.  There can be no assurance that, as our business
expands into new areas, we will be able to independently develop the technology,
software or know-how necessary to conduct our business or that we can do so
without infringing the intellectual property rights of others.  To the
extent that we have to rely on licensed technology from others, there can be no
assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms we consider
reasonable.  The lack of a necessary license could expose us to claims
for damages and/or injunction from third parties, as well as claims for
indemnification by our customers in instances where we have a contractual or
other legal obligation to indemnify them against damages resulting from
infringement claims. 

With
regard to our own intellectual property, we actively enforce and protect our
rights.  However, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be
adequate to prevent the misappropriation or improper use of our protected
technology. 

9 

We
benefit from royalty revenue generated from various patent license
agreements.  The amount of such revenue depends in part on
negotiations with new licensees, and with existing licensees in connection with
renewals of their licenses.  There is no guarantee that such
negotiations will be successful.  Future royalty revenue also depends
on the strength and enforceability of our patent portfolio and our enforcement
efforts, and on the sales and financial stability of our
licensees.  Additionally, consolidation of our licensees may
negatively affect our royalty revenue.  Royalty revenue from licensees
is not always uniform or predictable, in part due to the performance of our
licensees and in part due to the timing of new license agreements or the
expiration and renewal of existing agreements. 

A Decline in Demand in
Certain End-User Markets Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Demand for
Our Products and Results of Operations.  

Our
customer base includes companies in a wide range of industries, but we generate
a significant amount of revenue from sales to customers in the communications-
and computer-related industries.  Within these industries, a large
portion of our revenue is generated from sales to customers in the cell phone,
personal computer and communications infrastructure markets.  Decline
in one or several of these end-user markets could have a material adverse effect
on the demand for our products and our results of operations and financial
condition. 

Our Global Manufacturing,
Design and Sales Activities Subject Us to Risks Associated with Legal,
Political, Economic or Other Changes.  

We have
facilities in more than 30 countries worldwide, and in 2009 about 90 percent of
our revenue came from sales to locations outside the United
States.  Operating internationally exposes us to changes in export
controls and other laws or policies, as well as political and economic
conditions, security risks, health conditions and possible disruptions in
transportation networks of the various countries in which we
operate.  Any of these could result in an adverse effect on our
business operations and our financial results.  Additionally, in
periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the
non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business, the remeasurement of non-U.S.
dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial condition. 

Our Results of Operations
Could be Affected by Natural Events in the Locations in Which We or Our
Customers or Suppliers Operate.  

We have
manufacturing and other operations in locations subject to natural occurrences
such as severe weather and geological events that could disrupt
operations.  In addition, our suppliers and customers also have
operations in such locations.  A natural disaster that results in a
prolonged disruption to our operations, or the operations of our customers or
suppliers, may adversely affect our results and financial
condition. 

The Loss of or Significant
Curtailment of Purchases by Any of Our Largest Customers Could Adversely Affect
Our Results of Operations.  

While we
generate revenue from thousands of customers worldwide, the loss of or
significant curtailment of purchases by one or more of our top customers
(including curtailments due to a change in the design or manufacturing sourcing
policies or practices of these customers, or the timing of customer or
distributor inventory adjustments) may adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition. 

Incorrect Forecasts of
Customer Demand Could Adversely Affect Our Results of
Operations.  

Our
ability to match inventory and production with the product mix needed to fill
orders may affect our ability to meet a quarter s revenue
forecast.  In addition, when responding to customers  requests for
shorter shipment lead times, we manufacture products based on forecasts of
customers  demands.  These forecasts are based on multiple
assumptions.  If we inaccurately forecast customer demand, we may hold
inadequate, excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our profit margins
and adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition. 

Our Performance Depends on
the Availability and Cost of Raw Materials, Utilities, Critical Manufacturing
Equipment, Manufacturing Processes and Third-Party Manufacturing
Services.  

Our
manufacturing processes and critical manufacturing equipment require that
certain key raw materials and utilities be available.  Limited or
delayed access to and high costs of these items could adversely affect our
results of operations.  Additionally, the inability to timely
implement new manufacturing technologies or install manufacturing equipment
could adversely affect our results of operations.  We subcontract a
portion of our wafer fabrication and assembly and testing of our integrated
circuits.  We also depend on third parties to provide advanced logic
manufacturing process technology development.  A limited number of
third parties perform these functions, and we do not have long-term contracts
with all of them.  Reliance on these third parties involves risks,
including possible shortages of capacity in periods of high demand, the third
parties  inability to develop and deliver advanced logic manufacturing process
technology in a timely, cost effective and appropriate manner and the
possibility of third parties imposing increased costs on us. 

10 

Our Results of Operations
Could be Affected by Changes in Tax-Related Matters.  

We have
facilities in more than 30 countries worldwide and as a result are subject to
taxation and audit by a number of taxing authorities.  Tax rates vary
among the jurisdictions in which we operate.  Our results of
operations could be affected by market opportunities or decisions we make that
cause us to increase or decrease operations in one or more countries, or by
changes in applicable tax rates or audits by the taxing authorities in countries
in which we operate. 

In
addition, we are subject to laws and regulations in various jurisdictions that
determine how much profit has been earned and when it is subject to taxation in
that jurisdiction.  Changes in these laws and regulations could affect
the locations where we are deemed to earn income, which could in turn affect our
results of operations.  We have deferred tax assets on our balance
sheet.  Changes in applicable tax laws and regulations or in our
business performance could affect our ability to realize those deferred tax
assets, which could also affect our results of operations.  Each
quarter we forecast our tax liability based on our forecast of our performance
for the year.  If that performance forecast changes, our forecasted
tax liability will change. 

Our Operations Could be
Affected by Changes in Environmental, Safety and Health Laws and
Regulations  

We are
subject to environmental, safety and health laws and regulations in the
jurisdictions in which we operate our business, particularly those in which we
manufacture our products.  If we fail to comply with these laws and
regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other legal
liability.  Furthermore, should these laws and regulations be amended
or expanded, or new ones enacted, we could incur materially greater compliance
costs or restrictions on our ability to manufacture our products and operate our
business, particularly if such laws and regulations: require the use of
abatement equipment beyond what we currently employ; require the addition or
elimination of a raw material or process to or from our current manufacturing
processes; or impose costs, fees or reporting requirements on the direct or
indirect use of energy, or of materials or gases used or emitted into the
environment, in connection with the manufacture of our
products.  There can be no assurance that in all instances a
substitute for a prohibited raw material or process would be available, or be
available at reasonable cost. 

Our Results of Operations
Could be Affected by Changes in the Financial Markets.  

We
maintain bank accounts, a multi-year revolving credit agreement, and a portfolio
of investments to support the financing needs of the company.  Our
ability to fund our daily operations, invest in our business, and make strategic
acquisitions requires continuous access to our bank and investment accounts, as
well as access to our bank credit lines that support commercial paper borrowings
and provide additional liquidity through short-term bank loans.  If we
are unable to access these accounts and credit lines (for example, due to
instability in the financial markets), our results of operations and financial
condition could be adversely affected.  Similarly, such circumstances
could also restrict our ability to access the capital markets or redeem our
investments.  If our customers or suppliers are unable to access
credit markets and other sources of needed liquidity, we may receive fewer
customer orders or be unable to obtain needed supplies, collect accounts
receivable or access needed technology. 

Material Impairments of Our
Goodwill Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations  

Charges
associated with impairments of our goodwill could adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations.  Goodwill is reviewed for
impairment annually or more frequently if certain impairment indicators arise or
upon the disposition of a significant portion of a reporting
unit.  The review compares the fair value for each reporting unit to
its associated book value including goodwill.  A decrease in the fair
value associated with a reporting unit resulting from, among other things,
unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flow of the
reporting unit, may require us to recognize impairments of
goodwill. 

11 

Our Results of Operations
Could be Affected by Warranty Claims, Product Recalls or Product
Liability.  

We could
be subject to warranty or product liability claims or claims based on epidemic
or delivery failures that could lead to significant expenses as we defend such
claims or pay damage awards.  The risk of a significant claim is
generally greater for products used in health and safety
applications.  In the event of a warranty claim, we may also incur
costs if we decide to compensate the affected customer or end
consumer.  We maintain product liability insurance, but there is no
guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against
all such claims.  In addition, it is possible for one of our customers
to recall a product containing a TI part.  In such instances, we may
incur costs and expenses relating to the recall.  Costs or payments we
may make in connection with warranty, epidemic failure and delivery claims or
product recalls may adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition. 

Our Continued Success
Depends in Part on Our Ability to Retain and Recruit a Sufficient Number of
Qualified Employees in a Competitive Environment.  

Our
continued success depends in part on the retention and recruitment of skilled
personnel, including technical, marketing, management and staff
personnel.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to
successfully retain and recruit the key personnel that we require. 

ITEM
      1B. 

Unresolved
      Staff Comments. 

Not
applicable. 

ITEM
      2. 

Properties. 

Our
principal executive offices are located at 12500 TI Boulevard, Dallas,
Texas.  The following table indicates the general location of our
principal manufacturing and design operations and the reportable segments that
make major use of them.  Except as otherwise indicated, we own these
facilities. 

Analog  

Embedded Processing  

Wireless  

Dallas,
      Texas 

X 

X 

X 

Sherman,
      Texas (1)  

X 

Houston,
      Texas 

X 

X 

Miho,
      Japan 

X 

X 

X 

Kuala
      Lumpur, Malaysia (1)  

X 

X 

Freising,
      Germany 

X 

X 

X 

Baguio,
      Philippines (1)  

X 

X 

X 

Taipei,
      Taiwan (1)  

X 

X 

X 

Hiji,
      Japan (1)  

X 

X 

X 

Tucson,
      Arizona (1)  

X 

Bangalore,
      India (1)  

X 

X 

X 

Nice,
      France (1)  

X 

X 

Aguascalientes,
      Mexico (2)  

X 

Pampanga
      (Clark), Philippines (1)  

X 

X 

X 

Tokyo,
      Japan (2)  

X 

X 

X 

_______

(1)  

Portions
      of the facilities are leased and
owned. 

Our
facilities in the United States contained approximately 14.1 million square feet
at December 31, 2009, of which approximately 1.7 million square feet were
leased.  Our facilities outside the United States contained
approximately 6.8 million square feet at December 31, 2009, of which
approximately 1.5 million square feet were leased. 

At the
end of 2009, we occupied substantially all of the space in our
facilities. 

Leases
covering our currently occupied leased facilities expire at varying dates
generally within the next 7 years.  We believe our current properties
are suitable and adequate for both their intended purpose and our current and
foreseeable future needs. 

12 

ITEM
      3. 

Legal
      Proceedings. 

We are
involved in various inquiries and proceedings regarding laws and regulations
related to the protection of the environment.  These matters involve
various parties, including government agencies and, in certain cases, other
potentially responsible parties.  Although the factual situations and
the progress of each of these matters differ, we believe that the amount of our
liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect upon our financial
condition, results of operations or liquidity. 

The
Internal Revenue Code requires that companies disclose in their Form 10-K
whether they have been required to pay penalties to the Internal Revenue Service
for certain transactions that have been identified by the IRS as abusive or that
have a significant tax avoidance purpose.  We have not been required
to pay any such penalties. 

ITEM
      4. 

Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders. 

Not
applicable. 

PART
II 

ITEM
      5. 

Market
      for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
      Purchases of Equity Securities. 

The
information contained under the caption  Common stock prices and dividends  on
page 47 of TI s 2009 annual report to stockholders, and the information
concerning the number of stockholders of record at December 31, 2009, on
page 34 of such annual report are incorporated herein by reference to such
annual report. 

The
following table shows our repurchases of our common stock in the fourth quarter
of 2009: 

ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

_______

(1)  

All
      purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our
      board of directors to purchase up to $5 billion of additional shares of TI
      common stock announced on September 21, 2007.  No expiration
      date has been specified for this
authorization. 

(2)  

The
      purchases in October were made through open-market
      purchases.  The purchases in November and December were made
      through a privately negotiated forward purchase contract with a
      non-affiliated financial institution.  The forward purchase
      contract was designed to minimize the impact on our earnings from the
      effect of stock market value fluctuations on the portion of our deferred
      compensation obligations denominated in TI
  stock. 

13 

ITEM
      6. 

Selected
      Financial Data. 

The
 Summary of selected financial data  for the years 2005 through 2009, which
appears on page 34 of TI s 2009 annual report to stockholders, is
incorporated herein by reference to such annual report. 

ITEM
      7. 

Management s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations. 

The
information contained under the caption  Management s discussion and analysis of
financial condition and results of operations  on pages 35 through 45
of TI s 2009 annual report to stockholders is incorporated herein by reference
to such annual report. 

ITEM
      7A. 

Quantitative
      and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk. 

The
information concerning market risk contained on page 45 of TI s 2009 annual
report to stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such annual
report. 

ITEM
      8. 

Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data. 

The
consolidated financial statements of the company at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, and the
report thereon of the independent registered public accounting firm, on pages
2 through 31 of TI s 2009 annual report to stockholders, are incorporated
herein by reference to such annual report. 

The
 Quarterly financial data  on page 46 of TI s 2009 annual report to
stockholders is also incorporated herein by reference to such annual
report. 

ITEM
      9. 

Changes
      in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure. 

Not
applicable. 

ITEM
      9A. 

Controls
      and Procedures. 

Disclosure Controls and
Procedures  

An
evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report was carried out
under the supervision and with the participation of TI's management, including
its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of
the design and operation of TI s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934).  Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer concluded that those disclosure controls and procedures
were effective. 

Internal Control over
Financial Reporting  

Management s
assessment of our internal control over financial reporting is contained in the
report by management on internal control over financial reporting on
page 32 of our 2009 annual report to stockholders and is incorporated
herein by reference to such annual report. 

The
report of independent registered public accounting firm on internal control over
financial reporting opining on our internal control over financial reporting is
contained on page 33 of our 2009 annual report to stockholders and is
incorporated herein by reference to such annual report. 

ITEM
      9B. 

Other
      Information. 

Not
applicable. 

14 

PART
III 

ITEM
      10. 

Directors,
      Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance. 

The
information with respect to directors  names, ages, positions, term of office
and periods of service, which is contained under the caption  Election of
directors  in our proxy statement for the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders,
is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement. 

The
information with respect to directors  business experience, which is contained
under the caption  Board diversity and nominee qualifications  in our proxy
statement for the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders, is incorporated herein by
reference to such proxy statement. 

The
information with respect to the company s audit committee financial expert
contained under the caption  Board organization  in our proxy statement for the
2010 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such
proxy statement. 

The
information with respect to Section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting
compliance contained under the caption of the same name in our proxy statement
for the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference
to such proxy statement. 

A list of
our executive officers and their biographical information appears in Part I,
Item 1 of this report. 

Code of
Ethics  

We have
adopted the Code of Ethics for TI Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial
Officers.  A copy of the Code can be found on our web site at
www.ti.com/corporategovernance.  We intend to satisfy the disclosure
requirements of the SEC regarding amendments to, or waivers from, the Code by
posting such information on the same web site. 

Audit
Committee  

We have a
separately designated standing audit committee established in accordance with
Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  The
following directors are members of TI s Audit Committee:  Pamela H.
Patsley (Chair), David L. Boren, Stephen P. MacMillan and Wayne R.
Sanders. 

ITEM
      11. 

Executive
      Compensation. 

The
information contained under the captions  Director compensation  and  Executive
compensation  in our proxy statement for the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders
is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement. 

The
information contained under the caption  Compensation committee interlocks and
insider participation  in our proxy statement for the 2010 annual meeting of
stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy
statement. 

ITEM
      12. 

Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
      Stockholder Matters. 

Equity Compensation Plan
Information  

The
following table sets forth information about the company s equity compensation
plans as of December 31, 2009: 

15 

(1) 

Includes
      shares of TI common stock to be issued under the Texas Instruments 2009
      Long-Term Incentive Plan and predecessor plans, the Texas Instruments 2009
      Director Compensation Plan and the TI Employees 2005 Stock Purchase
      Plan. 

Also
includes the following: 

957,073
      shares of TI common stock to be issued upon exercise of outstanding
      options originally granted under the Burr-Brown Corporation 1993 Stock
      Incentive Plan, a plan approved by the stockholders of Burr-Brown
      Corporation. The options were assumed by the company in connection with
      the acquisition of Burr-Brown Corporation;
and 

10,391
      shares of TI common stock to be issued upon exercise of outstanding
      options originally granted under the Radia Communications, Inc. 2000 Stock
      Option/Stock Issuance Plan, a plan approved by the stockholders of Radia
      Communications, Inc. The options were assumed by the company in connection
      with the acquisition of Radia. 

(2) 

Restricted
      stock units and stock units credited to directors  deferred compensation
      accounts are settled in shares of TI common stock on a one-for-one basis.
      Accordingly, such units have been excluded for purposes of computing the
      weighted-average exercise price. 

(3) 

Shares
      of TI common stock available for issuance under the Texas Instruments 2009
      Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Texas Instruments 2009 Director Compensation
      Plan and the TI Employees 2005 Stock Purchase
  Plan. 

(4) 

Includes
      shares to be issued under the Texas Instruments 2003 Long-Term Incentive
      Plan.  This plan was replaced by the Texas Instruments 2009
      Long-Term Incentive Plan, which was approved by stockholders, and no
      further grants may be made under
it. 

Also
includes shares to be issued under the Texas Instruments Directors Deferred
Compensation Plan, the Texas Instruments Restricted Stock Unit Plan for
Directors and the Texas Instruments Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
Directors. These plans were replaced by the Texas Instruments 2003 Director
Compensation Plan, (which was replaced by the stockholder-approved 2009 Director
Compensation Plan), and no further grants may be made under them. 

Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  

The
information that is contained under the captions  Security ownership of certain
beneficial owners  and  Security ownership of directors and management  in our
proxy statement for the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated
herein by reference to such proxy statement.   

16 

ITEM
      13. 

Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence. 

The
information contained under the caption  Related person transactions  in the
company s proxy statement for the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders is
incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement. 

The
information contained under the caption  Director independence  in the company s
proxy statement for the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated
herein by reference to such proxy statement. 

ITEM
      14. 

Principal
      Accountant Fees and Services. 

The
information with respect to principal accountant fees and services contained
under the caption  Proposal to ratify appointment of independent registered
public accounting firm  in our proxy statement for the 2010 annual meeting of
stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy
statement. 

PART
IV 

ITEM
      15. 

Exhibits
      and Financial Statement Schedules. 

(a) 1 and
2.  Financial Statements and Financial Statement
Schedules: 

The
financial statements are listed in the index on page 23 hereof. 

3.  Exhibits: 

Designation
      of 

                Exhibit
      in 

                this
      Report 

Description
      of Exhibit 

3(a) 

Restated
      Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 3(a) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
      year 1993). 

3(b) 

Certificate
      of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to the Registrant s Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993). 

3(c) 

Certificate
      of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(c) to the Registrant s Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993). 

3(d) 

Certificate
      of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Registrant s Quarterly
      Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
  1996). 

3(e) 

Certificate
      of Ownership merging Texas Instruments Automation Controls, Inc. into the
      Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(e) to the Registrant s
      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993). 

3(f) 

Certificate
      of Elimination of Designations of Preferred Stock of the Registrant
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(f) to the Registrant s Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993). 

3(g) 

Certificate
      of Ownership and Merger merging Tiburon Systems, Inc. into the Registrant
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(g) to the Registrant s
      Registration Statement No.  333-41919 on Form
    S-8). 

3(h) 

Certificate
      of Ownership and Merger merging Tartan, Inc. into the Registrant
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(h) to the Registrant s
      Registration Statement No.  333-41919 on Form
    S-8). 

17 

Designation of  

                 Exhibit in  

                 this Report  

Description of Exhibit  

3(i) 

Certificate
      of Designation relating to the Registrant s Participating Cumulative
      Preferred Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the
      Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
      30, 1998). 

3(j) 

Certificate
      of Elimination of Designation of Preferred Stock of the Registrant
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(j) to the Registrant s Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the year 1998). 

3(k) 

Certificate
      of Ownership and Merger merging Intersect Technologies, Inc. with and into
      the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(k) to the
      Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
  1999). 

3(l) 

Certificate
      of Ownership and Merger merging Soft Warehouse, Inc. with and into the
      Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(l) to the Registrant s
      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1999). 

3(m) 

Certificate
      of Ownership and Merger merging Silicon Systems, Inc. with and into the
      Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(m) to the Registrant s
      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1999). 

3(n) 

Certificate
      of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 3(n) to the Registrant s Registration Statement on
      Form S-4 No.  333-41030 filed on July 7,
  2000). 

3(o) 

Certificate
      of Ownership and Merger merging Power Trends, Inc. with and into the
      Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(o) to the Registrant s
      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 2001). 

3(p) 

Certificate
      of Ownership and Merger merging Amati Communications Corporation with and
      into the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(p) to the
      Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
  2001). 

3(q) 

Certificate
      of Ownership and Merger merging Texas Instruments San Diego Incorporated
      with and into the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(q) to
      the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      2002). 

3(r) 

Certificate
      of Ownership and Merger merging Texas Instruments Burlington Incorporated
      with and into the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(r) to
      the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      2003). 

3(s) 

Certificate
      of Ownership and Merger merging Texas Instruments Automotive Sensors and
      Controls San Jose Inc. with and into the Registrant (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 3(i) to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K
      dated October 31, 2004). 

3(t) 

Certificate
      of Elimination of Series B Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Registrant s Current Report
      on Form 8-K dated June 23, 2008). 

3(u) 

By-Laws
      of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the
      Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 18,
    2008). 

10(a)(i) 

TI
      Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to
      the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 1,
      2009).* 

10(a)(ii)  

Amendment
      No. 1 to the TI Deferred Compensation
Plan.* 

18 

Designation of  

                 Exhibit in  

                 this Report  

Description of Exhibit  

10(b)(i) 

TI
      Employees Non-Qualified Pension Plan (formerly named the TI Employees
      Supplemental Pension Plan) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b)(i)
      to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      1999).* 

10(b)(ii) 

First
      Amendment to TI Employees Non-Qualified Pension Plan (formerly named the
      TI Supplemental Pension Plan) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10(b)(ii) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      1999).* 

10(b)(iii) 

Second
      Amendment to TI Employees Non-Qualified Pension Plan (formerly named the
      TI Supplemental Pension Plan) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10(b)(iii) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      2002).* 

10(b)(iv) 

Third
      Amendment to TI Employees Non-Qualified Pension Plan (formerly named the
      TI Supplemental Pension Plan) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10(b)(iv) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      2002).* 

10(b)(v) 

Fourth
      Amendment to TI Employees Non-Qualified Pension Plan (formerly named the
      TI Supplemental Pension Plan) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10(b)(v) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      2003).* 

10(b)(vi) 

TI
      Employees Non-Qualified Pension Plan II (incorporated by reference to
      Exhibit 10(b) to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January
      1, 2009).* 

10(c) 

Texas
      Instruments Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10(a)(ii) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      1993).* 

10(d) 

Texas
      Instruments 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
      Exhibit 10 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
      quarter ended June 30, 1996).* 

10(e) 

Texas
      Instruments 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended October 16, 2008
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Registrant s Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
  2009).* 

10(f) 

Texas
      Instruments 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended October 16, 2008
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Registrant s Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
  2009). 

10(g) 

Texas
      Instruments Executive Officer Performance Plan as amended September 17,
      2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s
      Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
      2009).* 

10(h) 

Texas
      Instruments Restricted Stock Unit Plan for Directors (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form
      10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998). 

10(i) 

Texas
      Instruments Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form
      10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998). 

10(j) 

Texas
      Instruments Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
      for the year 2000). 

10(k) 

Texas
      Instruments 2003 Director Compensation Plan as amended October 16, 2008
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Registrant s Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
  2009). 

19 

Designation of  

                 Exhibit in  

                 this Report  

Description of Exhibit  

10(l)  

Form
      of Stock Option Agreement for Executive Officers under the Texas
      Instruments 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan.* 

10(m)  

Form
      of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Texas Instruments 2009
      Long-Term Incentive Plan.* 

10(n) 

Asset
      and Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of January 8, 2006, between Texas
      Instruments Incorporated and S C Purchase Corp. (incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
      dated January 8, 2006). 

10(o) 

Texas
      Instruments 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended September 17, 2009
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly
      Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
    2009). 

10(p)  

Texas
      Instruments 2009 Director Compensation Plan as amended December 3,
      2009. 

13  

Portions
      of Registrant s 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders incorporated by
      reference herein. 

21  

List
      of Subsidiaries of the Registrant. 

23  

Consent
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

31(a)  

Rule
      13a-14(a)/15(d)-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive
      Officer. 

31(b)  

Rule
      13a-14(a)/15(d)-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial
      Officer. 

32(a)  

Section
      1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer. 

32(b)  

Section
      1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer. 

101.ins 

Instance
      Document** 

101.sch 

XBRL
      Taxonomy Schema** 

101.cal 

XBRL
      Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase** 

101.lab 

XBRL
      Taxonomy Labels Linkbase** 

101.pre 

XBRL
      Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase** 

101.def 

XBRL
      Taxonomy Definitions Document** 

* 

Management
      compensation plans and
arrangements. 

**   Furnished, not filed.

Safe
Harbor  Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995: 

This
report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe
harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be
identified by phrases such as TI or its management  believes,   expects, 
 anticipates,   foresees,   forecasts,   estimates  or other words or phrases of
similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TI s
business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are
forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are
subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those in forward-looking
statements.   

      We urge
you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its
management: 

20 

Market
      demand for semiconductors, particularly in key markets such as
      communications, entertainment electronics and
  computing; 

TI s
      ability to maintain or improve profit margins, including its ability to
      utilize its manufacturing facilities at sufficient levels to cover its
      fixed operating costs, in an intensely competitive and cyclical
      industry; 

TI s
      ability to develop, manufacture and market innovative products in a
      rapidly changing technological
environment; 

TI s
      ability to compete in products and prices in an intensely competitive
      industry; 

TI s
      ability to maintain and enforce a strong intellectual property portfolio
      and obtain needed licenses from third
parties; 

Expiration
      of license agreements between TI and its patent licensees, and market
      conditions reducing royalty payments to
TI; 

Economic,
      social and political conditions in the countries in which TI, its
      customers or its suppliers operate, including security risks, health
      conditions, possible disruptions in transportation networks and
      fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates; 

Natural
      events such as severe weather and earthquakes in the locations in which
      TI, its customers or its suppliers
operate; 

Availability
      and cost of raw materials, utilities, manufacturing equipment, third-party
      manufacturing services and manufacturing
  technology; 

Changes
      in the tax rate applicable to TI as the result of changes in tax law, the
      jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed, the
      outcome of tax audits and the ability to realize deferred tax
      assets; 

Changes
      in laws and regulations to which TI or its suppliers are or may become
      subject, such as those imposing fees or reporting or substitution costs
      relating to the discharge of emissions into the environment or the use of
      certain raw materials in our manufacturing
  processes; 

Losses
      or curtailments of purchases from key customers and the timing and amount
      of distributor and other customer inventory
  adjustments; 

Customer
      demand that differs from our
forecasts; 

The
      financial impact of inadequate or excess TI inventory that results from
      demand that differs from
projections; 

The
      ability of TI and its customers and suppliers to access their bank
      accounts and lines of credit or otherwise access the capital
      markets; 

Impairments
      of our non-financial assets; 

Product
      liability or warranty claims, claims based on epidemic or delivery failure
      or recalls by TI customers for a product containing a TI
    part; 

TI s
      ability to recruit and retain skilled personnel;
  and 

Timely
      implementation of new manufacturing technologies, installation of
      manufacturing equipment and the ability to obtain needed third-party
      foundry and assembly/test subcontract
services. 

For a
more detailed discussion of these factors see the Risk Factors discussion in
Item 1A of this report.  The forward-looking statements included in
this report are made only as of the date of this report and TI undertakes no
obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events
or circumstances. 

21 

SIGNATURE 

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

TEXAS
      INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED 

By: 

/s/
       Kevin
      P. March   

Kevin
      P. March 

Senior
      Vice President, 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

and
      Chief Accounting Officer 

Date:
February 23, 2010 

Each
person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints each of Richard K.
Templeton, Kevin P. March and Joseph F. Hubach, or any of them, each acting
alone, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power
of substitution and resubstitution, for such person and in his or her name,
place and stead, in any and all capacities in connection with the annual report
on Form 10-K of Texas Instruments Incorporated for the year ended December 31,
2009, to sign any and all amendments to the Form 10-K, and to file the same,
with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and
agents, each acting alone, full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in
person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents, or their substitutes or substitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done
by virtue hereof. 

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities indicated on the 23rd day of February 2010. 

Signature  

Title  

/s/
      James R. Adams  

Director 

James
      R. Adams 

/s/
      David L. Boren  

Director 

David
      L. Boren 

/s/
      Daniel A. Carp  

Director 

Daniel
      A. Carp 

/s/
      Carrie S. Cox  
                   
                 Director   

Carrie
      S. Cox 

/s/
      David R. Goode  

Director 

David
      R. Goode 

/s/
      Stephen P. MacMillan  

Director 

Stephen
      P. MacMillan 

/s/
      Pamela H. Patsley  

Director 

Pamela
      H. Patsley 

/s/
      Wayne R. Sanders  

Director 

Wayne
      R. Sanders 

/s/
      Ruth J. Simmons  

Director 

Ruth
      J. Simmons 

/s/
      Richard K.Templeton  

Chairman
      of the Board; Director; President and  

Richard
      K. Templeton 

Chief Executive Officer 

/s/
      Christine Todd Whitman  

Director 

Christine
      Todd Whitman 

/s/
      Kevin P. March  

Senior
      Vice President; Chief Financial Officer;  

Kevin
      P. March 

Chief Accounting
Officer 

22 

TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES 

INDEX TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

      (Item
15(a)) 

Page
      Reference in 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders 

Information
      incorporated by reference to the Registrant s 2009 annual report to
      stockholders 

Consolidated
      financial statements: 

Income
      for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
      2009 

2 

Comprehensive
      income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
      2009 

3 

Balance
      sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008 

4 

Cash
      flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
      2009 

5 

Stockholders 
      equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
      2009 

6 

Notes
      to financial statements 

7 

Report
      of independent registered public accounting firm 

31 

Report
      by management on internal control over financial reporting 

32 

Report
      of independent registered public accounting firm on internal control over
      financial reporting 

33 

Schedules have been omitted because the
required information is not present or not present in amounts sufficient to
require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is
included in the consolidated financial statements or the notes
thereto.  

23 

<EX-10.(A)(II)>
 2
 ex10_aii.htm
 EXHIBIT 10(A)(II)

ex10_aii.htm 

Exhibit
10(a)(ii) 

AMENDMENT
NO. 1 

      TO
THE 

      TI
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 

      (EFFECTIVE
JANUARY 1, 2009) 

TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation, pursuant to the authority
granted in Section 6-1 of the TI Deferred Compensation Plan (Effective January
1, 2009) (the  Plan ), does hereby amend the Plan effective as of January 1,
2010, except as otherwise provided herein, as follows: 

1.      Article
I of the Plan is amended by adding the following new Section 1-6A: 

Sec. 1-6A.    Change
in Control  .    Change in
Control  means an event that will be deemed to have occurred: 

(i) 

On
      the date any Person, other than (1) the Company or any of its
      Subsidiaries, (2) a trustee or other fiduciary holding stock under an
      employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates, (3) an
      underwriter temporarily holding stock pursuant to an offering of such
      stock, or (4) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the
      stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their
      ownership of stock of the Company, acquires ownership of stock of the
      Company that, together with stock held by such Person, constitutes more
      than fifty percent (50%) of the total fair market value or total voting
      power of the stock of the Company.  However, if any Person is
      considered to own more than fifty percent (50%) of the total fair market
      value or total voting power of the stock of the Company, the acquisition
      of additional stock by the same Person is not considered to be a Change in
      Control; 

(ii) 

On
      the date a majority of members of the Board is replaced during any
      12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed
      by a majority of the Board before the date of the appointment or election;
      or 

(iii) 

On
      the date any Person acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period
      ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such Person or group)
      assets from the Company that have a total gross fair market value equal to
      or more than eighty percent (80%) of the total gross fair market value of
      all of the assets of the Company immediately before such acquisition or
      acquisitions.  For this purpose, gross fair market value means
      the value of the assets of the Company or the value of the assets being
      disposed of, determined without regard to any liabilities associated with
      such assets.  However, there is no Change in Control when there
      is such a sale or transfer to (i) a stockholder of the Company
      (immediately before the asset transfer) in exchange for or with respect to
      the Company s then outstanding stock; (ii) an entity, at least fifty
      percent (50%) of the total value or voting power of the stock of which is
      owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company; (iii) a Person that owns,
      directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the total value or
      voting power of the outstanding stock of the Company; or (iv) an entity,
      at least fifty percent (50%) of the total value or voting power of the
      stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by a Person that owns,
      directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the total value or
      voting power of the outstanding stock of the
  Company. 

(iv) 

For
      purposes of (i), (ii) and (iii)
above, 

(a) 

Affiliate 
      shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section
      12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
  amended; 

(b) 

Board 
      means the Board of Directors of the
Company; 

(c) 

Person 
      shall have the meaning given in Section 7701(a)(1) of the
      Code.  Person shall include more than one Person acting as a
      group as defined by the Final Treasury Regulations issued under Section
      409A of the Code; and 

(d) 

Subsidiary 
      means any entity whose assets and net income are included in the
      consolidated financial statements of the Company audited by the Company s
      independent auditors and reported to stockholders in the annual report to
      stockholders. 

(v) 

Notwithstanding
      the foregoing, in no case will an event in (i), (ii) or (iii) be treated
      as a Change in Control unless such event also constitutes a  change in
      control event  with respect to the Company within the meaning of Treas.
      Reg.   1.409A-3(i)(5) or any successor
  provision. 

2.      Article
I of the Plan is amended further by adding the following new Section
1-18A: 

Sec.
1-18A.     Involuntary
Termination  .    Involuntary
Termination  shall mean a Termination of Employment, other than for cause due to
the independent exercise of unilateral authority of TI to terminate the
Participant s services, other than due to the Participant s implicit or explicit
request, where the Participant was willing and able to continue to perform
services, in accordance with Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(n)(1) or any successor
provision. 

3.      Article
I of the Plan is amended further by adding the following new Section
1-22A: 

Sec.  1-22A.    Specified
Employee  .    Specified
Employee  shall mean an employee who is a  specified employee  (as defined in
Section 409A(2)(B)(i) of the Code) for the applicable period, as determined by
the Committee in accordance with Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(i), or any successor
provision. 

- 2
- - 

4.      Article
I of the Plan is amended further by adding the following new Section
1-23A: 

Sec. 1-23A.      Termination
of Employment  .       Termination of Employment  shall mean the date on
which the Participant has incurred a  separation from service  within the
meaning of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(h) or any successor
provision.  

5.      Section
2-3 of the Plan is amended, effective as of January 1, 2009, by striking said
Section and substituting in lieu thereof the following new Section
2-3: 

Sec.
2-3.        Participation
in a Benefit Restoration Account for Participants in the TI Contribution and
401(k) Savings Plan . 

(i) 

An
      Eligible Employee will become a Participant in this Plan, and a Benefit
      Restoration Account in the name of the Participant will be credited with
       the excess
  of:  

(a)  

the sum, if any, of (1) the  contributions
       which would have been  credited to
      such Participant s  Contribution Account  under the TI Contribution and
      401(k) Savings Plan for that Plan Year if 
      the Employee s  Compensation,  as defined in the TI Contribution and
      401(k) Savings Plan, was not subject to  the limitations under
      Section 401(a)(17) of the Code and/or Section 415 of the Code  for such Plan Year, and (2)   if the Eligible Employee is a Designated Employee,
      the contributions which would have been credited to such Participant s
       Contribution Account  under the TI Contribution and 401(k) Savings Plan
      for that Plan Year, if the Employee s  Compensation,  as defined in the TI
      Contribution and 401(k) Savings Plan, had not been reduced during that
      Plan Year because the Participant deferred Regular Compensation or
      deferred a Year-End Performance Bonus under this Plan   which was paid in that Plan Year;
      over  

(b)  

the contributions actually credited to such
      Participant s  Contribution Account  for such Plan
      Year . 

(ii) 

An
      Eligible Employee will become a Participant in this Plan, and a Benefit
      Restoration Account in the name of such Participant will be credited with
       an amount equal to the excess
      of:  

(a)  

the lesser of (1) four percent (4%) of the
      Eligible Employee s  Compensation,  as defined in  the TI
      Contribution and 401(k) Savings Plan for that Plan Year  if the Eligible Employee s  Compensation  (A) was
      not subject to  the limitations under Section 401(a)(17) and/or
      Section 415 of the Code  for such Plan Year
      and, (B) in the case of an Eligible Employee who is a Designated Employee,
      had not been reduced during  that Plan Year because the  Eligible Employee deferred Regular Compensation or
      deferred a Year-End Performance Bonus under this Plan which was paid in
      that Plan Year, or (2) the sum of (A) the  Employer 401(k) Contributions
      actually credited to such Eligible Employee s  401(k) Account  pursuant to
      Section 4-1(a) of the TI Contribution and 401(k) Savings Plan, plus (B)
      the amount of the Regular Compensation and/or a Year-End Performance Bonus
      which was paid in such Plan Year deferred by the Eligible Employee under
      this Plan for such Plan Year;
over  

- 3
- - 

(b)  

the  Employer 401(m) Contributions  actually
      credited to such Participant s  401(k) Account  under the TI Contribution
      and 401(k) Savings Plan for that Plan
  Year;  

provided that no benefit  restoration shall be
made  pursuant to this Section 2-3(ii)
 unless the  Eligible Employee  has
made an election under the TI Contribution and 401(k) Savings Plan to defer the
maximum amount of compensation permitted under Section 402(g) of the Code , including, in the case of any Participant eligible to
make catch-up contributions, the maximum amount of catch-up contributions
permitted under Section 414(v) of the Code . 

6.      Section
2-4 of the Plan is amended, effective as of January 1, 2009, by striking said
Section and substituting in lieu thereof the following new Section
2-4: 

Sec.
2-4.       Participation
in a Benefit Restoration Account for Participants in the TI 401(k) Savings
Plan .  A Designated Employee who otherwise is an Eligible
Employee will become a Participant in this Plan, and a Benefit Restoration
Account in the name of such Participant will be credited with  Employer Matched
Savings Contributions  not credited to the Participant s  401(k) Account  under
the TI 401(k) Savings Plan for that Plan Year solely because the Participant
deferred Regular Compensation or deferred a Year-End Performance Bonus under
this Plan which was paid in that Plan Year, as of the earliest date the Regular
Compensation or Year-End Performance Bonus is credited to the Participant s
Deferred Compensation Account pursuant to Section 3-2 below; provided that the
Participant has made an election under the TI 401(k) Savings Plan to defer the
maximum amount of compensation permitted under Section 402(g) of the Code, and
provided further that such contribution, when added to any  Matched Savings
Contribution  actually made pursuant to the TI 401(k) Savings Plan, does not
exceed 2% of such Participant s Compensation during the Plan Year as limited by
Section 401(a)(17) of the Code. 

7.      Section
3-7 of the Plan is amended by adding the following new Section 3-7(iii) and
renumbering current Sections 3-7(iii) and (iv) as Sections 3-7(iv) and
(v): 

(iii) 

(a) 

Notwithstanding
      the foregoing, in the event a Participant experiences an Involuntary
      Termination within 24 months after a Change in Control, such Participant
      shall receive a distribution of the balances credited to the Participant s
      Accounts which are attributable to amounts credited to those Accounts in
      Plan Years beginning on and after January 1, 2010, except that with
      respect to amounts credited to a Participant s Account attributable to
      deferred Year-End Performance Bonuses and deferred Cash Profit Sharing
      Compensation, the provisions of this Section 3-7(iii)(a) shall only apply
      to such amounts credited to the Participant s Accounts beginning on and
      after January 1, 2011. 

- 4
- - 

(b)  

To the extent permitted without additional tax or
      penalty by Section 409A of the Code, the amounts to be distributed
      pursuant to this Section 3-7(iii) shall be paid in a lump sum on, or as
      soon as practicable (but no later than ninety (90) days) after, the
      Participant s Involuntary Termination, provided, however, that if the
      Participant is a Specified Employee upon such Involuntary Termination, and
      the limitations set forth in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code are
      applicable to such Participant, said amounts shall be distributed in a
      lump sum as soon as practicable (but no more than ten (10) days) after,
      the earlier of (1) the first day of the seventh month following such
      Participant s Involuntary Termination, or, (2) the date of death of such
      Participant; and  

(c)  

To the extent that distributions of amounts
      pursuant to this Section 3-7(iii) are not permitted without additional tax
      or penalty by Section 409A of the Code, the affected Participants shall
      receive distribution of the amounts referred to in this Section 3-7(iii)
      at the appropriate Scheduled Distribution Dates and in the appropriate
      forms of payment otherwise elected by such
      Participants.  

The
undersigned hereby adopts this AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE TI DEFERRED COMPENSATION
PLAN on this 22 day of December, 2009, effective as of the dates set forth
above, reflecting amendments approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board
of Directors of Texas Instruments Incorporated on September 17, 2009 and
amendments adopted pursuant to authority delegated by the Board of Directors of
Texas Instruments Incorporated. 

By: 

/s/ Darla Whitaker  

Darla
      Whitaker 

Senior
      Vice President   Human Resources 

- 5 - 

</EX-10.(A)(II)>

<EX-10.L>
 3
 ex10_l.htm
 EXHIBIT 10(L)

ex10_l.htm 

Exhibit 10(l) 

Texas
Instruments Incorporated 

      Nonqualified
Stock Option Agreement 

      (Executive
Officers) 

Form
No. 2 

      2009
LTIP 

Your
option is subject to the following terms and conditions, your acceptance of
which is required before you can exercise the option.  As used below,
 TI,   the Company  and  the Option Date  have the meanings specified in Section
9. 

1. 

Exercisability .  On
      or after the first anniversary of the Option Date, during the balance of
      the option term, your option may be exercised and shares purchased at any
      time or times under the following
conditions: 

(a) 

Installment
      Table .  Except as provided in Sections 1(b) and 1(c), the
      option will be exercisable through the tenth anniversary of the Option
      Date based on the following table. 

On
      or After 

Percent
      Exercisable 

1 st 
      anniversary of the Option Date 

25% 

2 nd 
      anniversary of the Option Date 

50% 

3 rd 
      anniversary of the Option Date 

75% 

4 th 
      anniversary of the Option Date 

100% 

(b) 

T  ermi  nation of
      Employment .  The effect of termination of employment from
      TI is as follows: 

(i) 

Termination for
      cause :  The option will be canceled immediately upon
      termination. 

(ii) 

Death :  The
      option will continue to full term, becoming exercisable per the table in
      Section 1(a), and will be exercisable by your
  heirs. 

(iii) 

Permanent
      disability : The option will continue to full term, becoming
      exercisable per the table in Section
1(a). 

(iv) 

Termination (except
      for cause), at least six months after the Option Date and when you are
      retirement eligible (normal or early) either under the terms of the TI
      retirement or pension plan in your home country or the country in which
      you work, as applicable (regardless of whether you are a participant in
      such plan), or if there is no such plan, as may be set forth in the laws
      or regulations in your home country or the country in which you work, as
      applicable :  The option will continue to full term,
      becoming exercisable per the table in Section
  1(a). 

(v) 

Termination (except
      for cause) at least six months after the Option Date and after 20 years of
      service (credited or otherwise) as a TI employee, but you are not
      retirement eligible as described in Section
      1(b)(iv) :  The option will continue to full term, but
      will be exercisable only to the extent it was exercisable on the date of
      termination. 

(vi) 

Involuntary
      Termination (as defined in Section 9) within 24 months after a Change in
      Control (as defined in Section 9) :  The table in Section
      1(a) and the other provisions of this Section 1(b) will not apply, and the
      option will become fully exercisable as of the date of your termination
      and continue to full term. 

(vii) 

Other :  For
      any termination other than those specified above, the option will be
      exercisable for 30 days after the date of termination, only to the extent
      that it was exercisable on the date of termination per the table in
      Section 1(a), except as follows:  If you die within 30 days
      after your termination, then your heirs may exercise the option for a
      period of up to one year after your death, but only to the extent any
      unexercised portion was exercisable on the date of
      termination. 

(c) 

Confidential
      Information and Competition .  See Section 6, particularly
      Section 6(c), for the effect of disclosure of confidential information or
      of competition with TI. 

2. 

Continuing
      Employment .  Your option will not be affected by any
      change of employment so long as you continue to be employed by
      TI.  The option will not constitute or be evidence of any
      agreement or understanding, expressed or implied, on the part of TI to
      employ you for any specific period. 

3. 

Transferability .  Your
      option is not transferable except by will or by the laws of descent and
      distribution, and during your lifetime may be exercised only by
      you. 

4. 

Manner of
      Exercise .  Your option may be exercised by delivery of a
      written notice of exercise to the Secretary of the Company or the
      Secretary s designee, specifying the number of shares for which you wish
      to exercise the option, and delivery of the full purchase price thereof,
      in a form approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
      of the Company, to the Secretary or the Secretary s designee, or in such
      other manner as the Committee may otherwise from time to time
      permit. 

5. 

Long-Term Incentive
      Plan .  Your option is subject to all of the terms and
      conditions of the Texas Instruments 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan
      (hereinafter  the Plan ).  In the event of any conflict between
      such terms and conditions and those set forth herein, the terms of the
      Plan shall govern and be
determinative. 

2 

6. 

Confidential
      Information, Competition and Recoupment Policy .  By
      accepting your option, and in consideration for the option and for the
      Company s obligations set forth herein, you agree with the Company as
      follows: 

(a) 

You
      recognize and acknowledge that in the course of your employment with TI,
      you have obtained private or confidential information and proprietary data
      relating to TI, including but not limited to TI s trade secrets
      (hereinafter "Confidential Information").  TI agrees that it
      will continue to provide you with access to its Confidential Information
      to the extent necessary for you to carry out the duties of your employment
      with TI. 

(b) 

You
      agree not to use or disclose to third parties, either directly or
      indirectly, Confidential Information at any time, except with the prior
      written consent of TI.  Without intending to limit the remedies
      available to TI, you acknowledge that damages at law will be an
      insufficient remedy to TI if you violate the terms of this Section 6(b)
      and agree that TI may apply for and have injunctive relief in any court of
      competent jurisdiction specifically to enforce the terms of this paragraph
      upon the breach or threatened breach of any such terms or otherwise
      specifically to enforce such terms. 

(c) 

You
      agree that, if, during your employment and for a period of two years
      thereafter you engage in Competition (as defined in Section 9), either
      directly or indirectly, for your own benefit or on behalf of any other
      person or entity, or if, at any time, you use or disclose to third parties
      any Confidential Information without the written consent of the Company,
      then (i) the option will not be thereafter exercisable at any time, and
      (ii) you shall repay immediately to the Company any profit (spread between
      Option Price and market price of the Company s common stock on the date of
      exercise) made on the option within three years prior to termination of
      your employment or any time after termination of your
      employment.  Any amount payable to the Company pursuant to this
      provision may be reduced or waived as the Company, in its sole judgment,
      deems warranted by the
circumstances. 

(d)  

You
      agree that this option is subject to the recoupment policy adopted by the
      Committee and in effect on the Option
Date. 

(e) 

You
      recognize and acknowledge that the provisions of this Section 6 relating
      to nondisclosure and noncompetition during and after employment and to the
      Committee s recoupment policy are entered into by you in consideration of,
      and as a material inducement to, the agreements by the Company herein as
      well as an inducement for the Company to enter into this Agreement, and
      that, but for your agreement to the provisions of this Section 6, the
      Company would not have entered into this
  Agreement. 

3 

7. 

Responsibility for
      Taxes .  You acknowledge that the ultimate liability for
      income tax, social insurance or other tax-related withholding (hereinafter
       Tax-Related Items ) in connection with this grant, its exercise or the
      subsequent sale of shares received thereunder is your responsibility, and
      that TI (a) makes no representations or undertakings with respect to the
      treatment for tax purposes of the grant or exercise of this option or sale
      of shares received thereunder, or any dividends on issued shares, and (b)
      does not commit to structure the grant to reduce your liability for
      Tax-Related Items.  You authorize TI to withhold all applicable
      Tax-Related Items legally payable by you from your wages or other cash
      compensation paid to you by TI or from proceeds of the sale of the
      shares.  If permissible under local law, TI may (a) sell or
      arrange for the sale of shares that you acquire to meet the withholding
      obligation for Tax-Related Items, and/or (b) withhold shares, provided
      that TI only withholds the number of shares necessary to satisfy the
      minimum withholding amount.  Finally, you shall pay to TI any
      amount of Tax-Related Items that TI may be required to withhold that
      cannot be satisfied by the means described
  above. 

8. 

Nature of
      Grant . In accepting this grant, you acknowledge
      that:  (a) the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company,
      it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended
      or terminated by the Company at any time, as provided in the Plan; (b) all
      decisions with respect to future grants, if any, will be at the sole
      discretion of the Company; (c) the grant of your option is voluntary and
      occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive
      future grants of options, or benefits in lieu of options; (d) you are
      voluntarily participating in the Plan; (e) your option is an extraordinary
      item that does not constitute compensation for services rendered to TI;
      (f) your option is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary
      for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any
      severance, termination, pension or retirement benefits or similar
      payments; (g) the option grant will not be interpreted to form an
      employment contract or relationship with TI; (h) the future value of the
      underlying shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and
      (i) the value of any shares acquired upon exercise may increase or
      decrease in value. 

9. 

Certain
      Definitions . 

(a) 

The
      term   Change in
      Control   has the meaning specified in the
  Plan. 

(b) 

The
      term   Company  
      means Texas Instruments Incorporated and the term   TI   means and includes
      Texas Instruments Incorporated (together with any successor) and its
      subsidiaries. 

(c) 

The term    Competition   
  means:  

(i) 

engaging
      in any business activity similar to that in which you engaged during your
      last three years of employment with TI for any person or entity selling,
      marketing, designing or manufacturing products the same as, similar to, or
      that compete with products that TI sells or markets in any area that TI
      sells or markets such products; 

4 

(ii) 

engaging
      in the selling or marketing of any products that are the same as, similar
      to, or that compete with any products that you sold or marketed, or
      attempted to sell or market, during the last three years of your
      employment with TI in any area in which you sold or marketed, or attempted
      to sell or market, such products; 

(iii) 

engaging
      in the manufacture or design of any products that are the same as, similar
      to or that compete with any products that you sold or marketed, or
      attempted to sell or market, or participated in the design or manufacture
      of, during the last three years of your employment with TI;
    or 

(iv) 

engaging
      in the selling or marketing of any products that are the same as, similar
      to, or that compete with any products that you participated in the design
      or manufacture of during the last three years of your employment with TI
      in any area in which TI has sold or marketed, or attempted to sell or
      market, such products. 

(d) 

The
      term   Involuntary Termination   has
      the meaning specified in the Plan. 

(e) 

The
      term   Option
      Date   means the effective date of grant of this
    option. 

(f) 

The
      term   Agreement  
      means this option agreement. 

10. 

Texas
      Law .  This Agreement and specifically the provisions of
      Section 6 hereof shall be construed both as to validity and performance
      and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas without
      giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws
    thereof. 

11. 

Severability .  The
      provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more
      provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in
      whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding
      and enforceable. 

END 

By
accepting this Agreement, I acknowledge I have read and I agree to be bound by
all of the terms and conditions set forth above, including Section 6 relating to
Confidential Information and Competition. 

5 

</EX-10.L>

<EX-10.M>
 4
 ex10_m.htm
 EXHIBIT 10(M)

ex10_m.htm 

Exhibit 10(m) 

Texas
Instruments Incorporated 

      Restricted
Stock Unit Award Agreement 

      (Executive
Officers) 

RSU
Form No. 2 

      2009
LTIP 

Your
award of restricted stock units (the  Award ) is subject to the following terms
and conditions, your acceptance of which is required within 120 days of the
Grant Date (as defined in Section 12 below).   Failure to accept this Agreement by
such date will result in termination of the Award without any shares being
issued.  

The
capitalized terms in this Agreement have the meaning stated in Section 12 except
as otherwise specified. 

1.   

Share
      Issuance .  Each restricted stock unit represents the
      right to receive one share of common stock of the Company.  The
      shares covered by this Award will be issued in your name on, or as soon as
      practicable (but no later than 60 days) after, the date of vesting stated
      on your Employee Stock Grant Communication ( Vesting Date ), except as
      provided below. 

2. 

Change in Employment
      Status .  The effect of changes in your employment status
      with TI before the Vesting Date will be as
  follows: 

(a) 

Termination due to
      death or permanent disability :  The Award will continue
      to full term subject to the other terms and conditions of this Agreement,
      and shares will be issued to you or to your personal representatives,
      heirs, legatees or distributees, as applicable, at such times and in such
      number and manner as if you were still an employee of TI on the Vesting
      Date. 

(b) 

Termination (except
      for cause) when you are retirement eligible (normal or early) either under
      the terms of the TI retirement or pension plan in your home country or the
      country in which you work, as applicable (regardless of whether you are a
      participant in such plan), or if there is no such plan, as may be set
      forth in the laws or regulations in your home country or the country in
      which you work, as applicable :  The Award will continue
      to full term subject to the other terms and conditions of this Agreement,
      except that (subject to Section 2(c) and 2(e)) the number of shares
      issuable to you on the Vesting Date will be reduced pro rata as
      follows: 

The
number of shares to be issued will be the number specified for the Vesting Date
on the Employee Stock Grant Communication, times a fraction equal to your
Pre-Retirement Period divided by the Vesting Period.  If the number of
shares calculated pursuant to the previous sentence includes a fraction of a
share, the number will be rounded up to the next whole share.  If your
Award provides for more than one Vesting Date, this calculation will be done to
determine the number of shares issuable on each Vesting Date. 

(c) 

Involuntary
      Termination after a Change in Control :  If you experience
      an Involuntary Termination within 24 months after a Change in Control,
      then shares will be issued to you as described in Section 11(i) of the
      Plan, and the number of shares will not be reduced by Section 2(b) or 2(e)
      of this Agreement. 

(d) 

Termination under
      other circumstances :  For any termination other than
      those described above in this Section 2, the Award will terminate and
      become void without any shares being
issued. 

(e) 

Commencement of a
      Bridge to Retirement even if you subsequently return to full- or part-time
      employment with TI :  The Award will continue to full term
      subject to the other terms and conditions of this Agreement, except that
      (subject to Section 2(c)) the number of shares issuable to you on the
      Vesting Date will be reduced pro rata as
  follows: 

The
number of shares to be issued will be the number specified for the Vesting Date
on the Employee Stock Grant Communication, times a fraction equal to your
Pre-Bridge Period divided by the Vesting Period.  If the number of
shares calculated pursuant to the previous sentence includes a fraction of a
share, the number will be rounded up to the next whole share.  If your
Award provides for more than one Vesting Date, this calculation will be done to
determine the number of shares to be issuable on each Vesting Date. 

(f) 

Other changes in
      employment status :  No changes in your employment status
      at TI other than those described above will affect the
    Award. 

3. 

Confidential
      Information and Competition .  See Section 9, particularly
      Section 9(c), for the effect of disclosure of confidential information or
      of competition with TI. 

4. 

Employee Stock Grant
      Communication .  This Award was granted by the
      Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (the
       Committee ).  In the event of a conflict between the Employee
      Stock Grant Communication and the records of the Committee, the latter
      shall govern and be determinative. 

5. 

Dividend
      Equivalents .  Each year in which this Award is in effect,
      you will receive a payment equivalent to the cash dividends you would have
      received if the shares to which you are entitled under this Award, but not
      yet issued in your name, had already been issued to you ( Dividend
      Equivalents  provided, however, that no payment will be made if your
      Award has terminated before the last dividend record date of the year for
      any reason other than vesting.  The payment to which you are
      entitled under this paragraph will be made once each year on or as soon as
      practicable after the date of the last cash dividend payment in the year
      (but in any event before year-end).  The Dividend Equivalents
      will be calculated for the record dates on which this Award was in effect
      during the year.  If the number of shares to which you are
      entitled under this Award is reduced pursuant to Section 2(b) or 2(e),
      then your right to dividend equivalents will be correspondingly reduced
      with effect from the date of your retirement or commencement of a Bridge
      to Retirement, as applicable. 

2 

6. 

Continuing
      Employment .  This Award will not constitute or be
      evidence of any agreement or understanding, expressed or implied, on the
      part of TI to employ you for any specific
  period. 

7. 

Transferability .  Your
      Award is not transferable except by will or by the laws of descent and
      distribution.  During your lifetime, the shares issuable
      hereunder may be issued only to
you. 

8. 

Long-Term Incentive
      Plan .  Your Award is subject to all of the terms and
      conditions of the Plan.  In the event of any conflict between
      such terms and conditions and those set forth herein, the terms of the
      Plan shall govern and be
determinative. 

9. 

Confidential
      Information, Competition and Recoupment Policy .  By
      accepting your Award, and in consideration for the Award and for the
      Company s obligations set forth in this Agreement, you agree with the
      Company as follows: 

(a) 

You
      recognize and acknowledge that in the course of your employment with TI,
      you have obtained private or confidential information and proprietary data
      relating to TI, including but not limited to TI s trade secrets
      ( Confidential Information ).  TI agrees that it will continue
      to provide you with access to its Confidential Information to the extent
      necessary for you to carry out the duties of your employment with
      TI. 

(b) 

You
      agree not to use or disclose to third parties, either directly or
      indirectly, Confidential Information at any time, except with the prior
      written consent of TI.  Without intending to limit the remedies
      available to TI, you acknowledge that damages at law will be an
      insufficient remedy to TI if you violate the terms of this Section 9(b)
      and agree that TI may apply for and have injunctive relief in any court of
      competent jurisdiction specifically to enforce the terms of this paragraph
      upon the breach or threatened breach of any such terms or otherwise
      specifically to enforce such terms. 

(c) 

You
      agree that, if, during your employment and for a period of two years
      thereafter you engage in Competition (as defined in Section 12(d)), either
      directly or indirectly, for your own benefit or on behalf of any other
      person or entity, or, if at any time, you use or disclose to third parties
      any Confidential Information without the written consent of TI, then (i)
      the Company s obligation to issue shares under this Award will terminate
      and become void, and (ii) you shall repay immediately to TI the Fair
      Market Value (as defined in Section 12(m) below) of any shares of stock
      issued to you (or immediately surrender to the Company the same number of
      shares of stock as were issued to you) under this Award within three years
      prior to termination of your employment or any time after termination of
      your employment.  If your Award provides for more than one
      Vesting Date, then payment shall be made, or shares surrendered, with
      respect to each such Vesting Date.  Any amount payable (or
      number of shares subject to surrender) to the Company pursuant to this
      provision may be reduced or waived as the Company, in its sole judgment,
      deems warranted by the
circumstances. 

3 

(d) 

In
      addition, you agree that this Award is subject to the recoupment policy
      adopted by the Committee and in effect on the effective date of this
      Award. 

(e) 

You
      recognize and acknowledge that the provisions of this Section 9 are
      entered into by you in consideration of, and as a material inducement to,
      the agreements by the Company herein as well as an inducement for the
      Company to enter into this Agreement, and that, but for your agreement to
      the provisions of this Section 9, the Company would not have entered into
      this Agreement. 

10. 

Responsibility for
      Taxes .  You acknowledge that the ultimate liability for
      income tax, social insurance or other tax-related withholding
      ( Tax-Related Items ), including any taxes under Section 409A of the U.S.
      Internal Revenue Code, in connection with this Award, the payment of
      Dividend Equivalents or the issuance of shares hereunder, or the
      subsequent sale of such shares is your responsibility, and that TI makes
      (a) no representations or undertakings with respect to the treatment for
      tax purposes of this Award, any shares or Dividend Equivalents received
      hereunder, the sale of such shares or any dividends paid on issued shares
      and (b) does not commit to structure the grant to reduce your
      liability for Tax-Related Items.  You authorize TI to withhold
      all applicable Tax-Related Items legally payable by you from your wages or
      other cash compensation paid to you by TI, from Dividend Equivalents or
      from proceeds of the sale of the shares.  If permissible under
      local law, TI may (a) sell or arrange for the sale of shares that you
      acquire to meet the withholding obligation for Tax-Related Items, and/or
      (b) withhold shares, provided that TI only withholds the number of shares
      necessary to satisfy the minimum withholding amount.  Finally,
      you shall pay to TI any amount of Tax-Related Items that TI may be
      required to withhold that cannot be satisfied by the means described
      above. 

11. 

Nature of
      Grant .  In accepting this Award, you acknowledge
      that:  (a) the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company,
      it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended
      or terminated by the Company at any time, as provided in the Plan; (b) all
      decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole
      discretion of the Company; (c) the Award is voluntary and occasional and
      does not create any contractual or other right to receive future Awards,
      or benefits in lieu of Awards; (d) you are voluntarily participating in
      the Plan; (e) your Award is an extraordinary item that does not constitute
      compensation for services rendered to TI; (f) your Award is not part of
      normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but
      not limited to, calculating any severance, termination, pension or
      retirement benefits or similar payments; (g) the Award will not be
      interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with TI; (h)
      the future value of the underlying shares is unknown and cannot be
      predicted with certainty; and (i) if you receive shares, the value of such
      shares may increase or decrease in
value. 

4 

12. 

Certain
      Definitions . 

(a) 

The
      term   Agreement  
      means this Restricted Stock Unit Award
  Agreement. 

(b) 

The
      term   Change in
      Control   has the meaning specified in the
  Plan. 

(c) 

The
      term   Company  
      means Texas Instruments Incorporated and the term   TI   means and includes
      Texas Instruments Incorporated (together with any successor) and its
      subsidiaries. 

(d) 

The term      Competition   
  means:  

(i) 

engaging
      in any business activity similar to that in which you engaged during your
      last three years of employment with TI for any person or entity selling,
      marketing, designing or manufacturing products the same as, similar to, or
      that compete with products that TI sells or markets in any area that TI
      sells or markets such products; 

(ii) 

engaging
      in the selling or marketing of any products that are the same as, similar
      to, or that compete with any products that you sold or marketed, or
      attempted to sell or market, during the last three years of your
      employment with TI in any area in which you sold or marketed, or attempted
      to sell or market, such products; 

(iii) 

engaging
      in the manufacture or design of any products that are the same as, similar
      to or that compete with any products that you sold or marketed, or
      attempted to sell or market, or participated in the design or manufacture
      of, during the last three years of your employment with TI;
    or 

(iv) 

engaging
      in the selling or marketing of any products that are the same as, similar
      to, or that compete with any products that you participated in the design
      or manufacture of during the last three years of your employment with TI
      in any area in which TI has sold or marketed, or attempted to sell or
      market, such products. 

(e) 

The
      term   Grant Date  
      means the effective date of grant of this
Award. 

5 

(f) 

The
      term   Involuntary
      Termination   has the meaning specified in the
  Plan. 

(g) 

The
      term   the Plan  
      means the Texas Instruments 2009 Long-Term Incentive
  Plan. 

(h) 

The
      term   Pre-Retirement
      Period   means the number of whole 365-day periods from (and
      including) the Grant Date through the earlier of (i) the day before your
      termination is effective or (ii) the day before the beginning of any
      Bridge to Retirement you have commenced after the Grant
    Date. 

(i) 

The
      term   Vesting
      Period   means the number of whole 365-day periods from (and
      including) the Grant Date of the Award through the Vesting
      Date. 

(j) 

The
      term   Bridge to
      Retirement   means an unpaid leave of absence that TI has granted
      you solely to enable you to qualify for retirement as described in Section
      2(b). 

(k)   

The
      term    Pre-Bridge
      Period   means the number of whole 365-day periods from (and
      including) the Grant Date of this Award through the day before you began
      your Bridge to Retirement. 

(l) 

The
      term   Employee Stock
      Grant Communication   means the written communication from the
      Company to you stating the date(s) of vesting and number of shares under
      the Award. 

(m) 

The
      term   Fair Market
      Value   means the closing price of TI common stock on the New York
      Stock Exchange on the day before the Vesting
  Date. 

13. 

Rights as
      Stockholder :  You will not have any rights as a
      stockholder of the Company in respect of any shares of common stock of the
      Company issuable under this Award unless and until such shares are issued
      in your name and delivered to you in accordance with the provisions
      hereof. 

14. 

Texas
      Law .  This Agreement and specifically the provisions of
      Section 9 hereof shall be construed both as to validity and performance
      and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas without
      giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws
    thereof. 

15. 

Severability .  The
      provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more
      provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in
      whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding
      and enforceable. 

END 

By
accepting this Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, I acknowledge I have read
and I agree to be bound by all of the terms and conditions set forth above,
including Section 9 relating to Confidential Information, Competition and
Recoupment Policy. 

5  

</EX-10.M>

<EX-10.P>
 5
 ex10_p.htm
 EXHIBIT 10(P)

ex10_p.htm 

Exhibit 10(p) 

TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2009 DIRECTOR COMPENSATION PLAN 

As
Amended December 3, 2009 

SECTION
1.  PURPOSE. 

The Texas
Instruments 2009 Director Compensation Plan ( the Plan ) is intended as a
successor plan to the Company s 2003 Director Compensation Plan ( 2003
Plan ).  This Plan is designed to attract and retain qualified
individuals to serve as directors of the Company and to increase the proprietary
and vested interest of such directors in the growth and performance of the
Company.  This Plan is effective for Awards granted on or after the
Effective Date.  With respect to Deferred Compensation, as of the
Effective Date, the Post-2004 Accounts (as defined in the 2003 Plan) of the
participants in the 2003 Plan are hereby merged into the Deferred Compensation
accounts under this Plan and the amounts in those Accounts shall be governed
thereafter by the terms of this Plan.  Any elections made under
Section 8 of the 2003 Plan shall remain applicable to and shall govern the
Deferred Compensation Accounts of this Plan unless changed by the Participant in
accordance with the terms of this Plan. 

SECTION
2.  DEFINITIONS. 

As used
in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below: 

(a) 

Account   means a Cash
      Account or Stock Unit Account established under Section 9 of the
      Plan. 

(b) 

Administrator   means
      the Board or a committee of directors designated by the Board to
      administer the Plan. 

(c) 

Award   means any
      Option, Restricted Stock Unit, Stock Appreciation Right or other
      stock-based award under the Plan. 

(d) 

Award Agreement   means
      any written agreement, contract or other instrument or document evidencing
      any Award granted under the Plan, which may, but need not, be executed or
      acknowledged by a Director.  An Award Agreement may be in
      electronic form. 

(e) 

Board   means the Board
      of Directors of the Company, as constituted from time to
    time. 

(f) 

Cash Account   means
      the bookkeeping accounts established or maintained pursuant to Section
      9(b)(i) on behalf of each Director who elects pursuant to Section 9(b) to
      have any of his or her Deferred Compensation credited to a cash
      account. 

(g) 

Change
      in Control definitions: 

(i) 

Change in Control (2010
      Grant)   means an event when (i) any Person, alone or together with
      its Affiliates and Associates or otherwise, shall become an Acquiring
      Person otherwise than pursuant to a transaction or agreement approved by
      the Board prior to the time the Acquiring Person became such, or (ii) a
      majority of the Board shall change within any 24-month period unless the
      election or the nomination for election by the Company s stockholders of
      each new director has been approved by a vote of at least a majority of
      the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of
      the period. For the purposes hereof, the terms Person, Affiliates,
      Associates and Acquiring Person shall have the meanings given to such
      terms in the Rights Agreement dated as of June 17, 1998 between the
      Company and Harris Trust and Savings Bank.  Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, if a Restricted Stock Unit (2010 Grant) granted under this Plan
      is or becomes subject to Section 409A of the Code, then with respect to
      such Restricted Stock Unit,  Change in Control (2010 Grant)  means a
      change in control event as to the Company, as defined in Section 409A of
      the Code and the regulations
thereunder. 

1 

(ii) 

Change in Control (Post-2010
      Grant)    shall mean an event that will be deemed to have
      occurred: 

(A) 

On
      the date any Person, other than (i) the Company or any of its
      Subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding stock under an
      employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an
      underwriter temporarily holding stock pursuant to an offering of such
      stock, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the
      stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their
      ownership of stock of the Company, acquires ownership of stock of the
      Company that, together with stock held by such Person, constitutes more
      than 50 percent of the total fair market value or total voting power of
      the stock of the Company.  However, if any Person is considered
      to own more than 50 percent of the total fair market value or total voting
      power of the stock of the Company, the acquisition of additional stock by
      the same Person is not considered to be a Change in Control (Post-2010
      Grant); 

(B) 

On
      the date a majority of members of the Board is replaced during any
      12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed
      by a majority of the Board before the date of the appointment or election;
      or 

(C) 

On
      the date any Person acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period
      ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such Person) assets
      from the Company that have a total gross fair market value equal to or
      more than 80 percent of the total gross fair market value of all of the
      assets of the Company immediately before such acquisition or
      acquisitions.  For this purpose, gross fair market value means
      the value of the assets of the Company or the value of the assets being
      disposed of, determined without regard to any liabilities associated with
      such assets.  However, there is no Change in Control (Post-2010
      Grant) when there is such a sale or transfer to (i) a stockholder of the
      Company (immediately before the asset transfer) in exchange for or with
      respect to the Company s then outstanding stock; (ii) an entity, at least
      50 percent of the total value or voting power of the stock of which is
      owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company; (iii) a Person that owns,
      directly or indirectly, at least 50 percent of the total value or voting
      power of the outstanding stock of the Company; or (iv) an entity, at least
      50 percent of the total value or voting power of the stock of which is
      owned, directly or indirectly, by a Person that owns, directly or
      indirectly, at least 50 percent of the total value or voting power of the
      outstanding stock of the
Company. 

2 

(D) 

For
      purposes of (A), (B) and (C) of this Section
  2(g)(ii): 

(1) 

Affiliate 
      shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section
      12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
  amended; 

(2) 

Person 
      shall have the meaning given in Section 7701(a)(1) of the
      Code.  Person shall include more than one Person acting as a
      group as defined by the Final Treasury Regulations issued under Section
      409A of the Code; and 

(3) 

Subsidiary 
      means any entity whose assets and net income are included in the
      consolidated financial statements of the Company audited by the Company s
      independent auditors and reported to stockholders in the annual report to
      stockholders. 

(E) 

Notwithstanding
      the foregoing, in no case will an event in (A), (B) or (C) of this Section
      2(g)(ii) be treated as a Change in Control (Post-2010 Grant) unless such
      event also constitutes a  change in control event  with respect to the
      Company within the meaning of Treas. Reg.   1.409A-3(i)(5) or any
      successor provision. 

(h)   

Code   means the
      Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended. 

(i) 

Company   means Texas
      Instruments Incorporated, together with any successor
    thereto. 

(j) 

Deferred Cash Compensation 
       means that portion of any Director s Eligible Compensation that is
      payable in cash and that he or she elects pursuant to Section 9(a) to be
      deferred in accordance with this
Plan. 

(k) 

Deferred Compensation 
       means that portion of any Director s Eligible Compensation that he
      or she elects pursuant to Section 9(a) to be deferred in accordance with
      this Plan. 

(l) 

Deferred Compensation
      Account   means a Cash Account or Stock Unit Account containing
      amounts earned and deferred under this Plan or the 2003 Plan and
      Restricted Stock Units, the receipt of which a Director has elected to
      defer. 

(m) 

Director   means a
      member of the Board who is not an employee of the Company or any
      subsidiary thereof. 

(n) 

Effective Date   
      means the date this Plan is approved by stockholders of the
      Company. 

(o) 

Eligible
      Compensation    means (i) the cash portion of any compensation
      payable by the Company to a Director for his or her services as a Director
      but shall not include any reimbursement by the Company of expenses
      incurred by a Director incidental to attendance at a meeting of the
      Company s stockholders, the Board, or any committee of the Board, or of
      any other expense incurred on behalf of the Company, (ii) any Restricted
      Stock Units granted by the Company to a Director for his or her services
      as a Director, and (iii) any dividend equivalents paid on Restricted Stock
      Units pursuant to
Section 7(e). 

3 

(p) 

Fair Market Value 
       means the closing price of the Shares on the date specified (or, if
      there is no trading on the New York Stock Exchange on such date, then on
      the first previous date on which there is such trading) as reported in
       New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions  in  The Wall Street
      Journal  or by WSJ.com or Bloomberg L.P. ,  or if unavailable,
      then by reference to any other source as may be deemed appropriate by the
      G SR Committee. 

(q) 

G SR Committee 
       means the Governance and Stockholder Relations Committee of the
      Board or any successor committee. 

(r) 

Option   means an
      option granted under Section 6. 

(s) 

Participant   means an
      individual who has received an Award or established an Account under the
      Plan. 

(t)   

Plan   means this Texas
      Instruments 2009 Director Compensation
Plan. 

(u) 

Restricted Stock Unit 
       means a contractual right granted under Section 7 that is
      denominated in Shares, each of which represents a right to receive a Share
      on the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and the applicable Award
      Agreement. 

(v) 

Restricted Stock Unit (2010
      Grant)    means a Restricted Stock Unit granted on or before
      the effective date of the annual grant (as described in Section 7(a)) in
      2010 to a Director of the Company who is a Director on [the effective date
      of this amendment]. 

(w)   

Secretary   means the
      Secretary of the Company. 

(x) 

Separation from Service    means a
      termination of services provided by a Participant as a member of the Board
      or of the board of directors of any other member of the controlled group
      of corporations (as defined in Section 414(b) of the Code) which includes
      the Company (for purposes of this Section 2(x), the controlled group
      members other than the Company are referred to collectively as  ERISA
      Affiliates ), whether such termination is voluntary or involuntary, as
      determined by the Administrator in accordance with Treas. Reg.
       1.409A-1(h).  In determining whether a Participant has
      experienced a Separation from Service as a member of the Board or of a
      board of directors of an ERISA Affiliate, the following provisions shall
      apply: 

(i) 

If
      a Director also provides services to the Company or any ERISA Affiliate as
      an employee at the time of his Separation from Service as a member of the
      Board, the services such Participant provides as an employee shall not be
      taken into account in determining whether the Participant has a Separation
      from Service as a Director for purposes of this Plan (provided that this
      Plan is not, at the time of such determination, aggregated under Treas.
      Reg.  1.409A-1(c)(2)(ii) with any plan in which the Participant
      participates as an employee). 

4 

(ii) 

A
      Participant shall be considered to have experienced a termination of
      services when the facts and circumstances indicate that the Participant,
      the Company and each ERISA Affiliate reasonably anticipate that the
      Participant will perform no further services for the Company or any ERISA
      Affiliate as a member of the Board (or the board of directors of any ERISA
      Affiliate), and the Participant s term as a member of the Board has
      expired. 

(iii) 

If
      a Director is also providing additional services to the Company as an
      independent contractor, he or she cannot have a Separation from Service
      for purposes of Section 409A of the Code until he or she has separated
      from service both as a Director and as an independent
      contractor. 

(y) 

Shares   shall mean
      shares of the common stock of the Company, $1.00 par
  value. 

(z) 

Specified Employee  
      means any Participant who is determined to be a  key employee  (as defined
      under Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof)
      for the applicable period, as determined annually by the Administrator in
      accordance with Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(i).  In determining
      whether a Participant is a Specified Employee, the following provisions
      shall apply: 

(i) 

Identification
      of the individuals who fall within the above-referenced definition of  key
      employee  shall be based upon the 12-month period ending on each December
      31st (referred to below as the  identification date ).  In
      applying the applicable provisions of Code Section 416(i) to identify such
      individuals,  compensation  shall be determined in accordance with Treas.
      Reg.  1.415(c)2(a) without regard to (i) any safe harbor provided in
      Treas. Reg.  1.415(c)-2(d), (ii) any of the special timing rules provided
      in Treas. Reg.  1.415(c)-2(e), and (iii) any of the special rules provided
      in Treas. Reg.  1.415(c)-2(g); and 

(ii) 

Each
      Participant who is among the individuals identified as a  key employee  in
      accordance with part (i) of this Section 2(z) shall be treated as a
      Specified Employee for purposes of this Plan if such Participant
      experiences a Separation from Service during the 12-month period that
      begins on the April 1st following the applicable identification
      date. 

(aa) 

Stock Appreciation
      Right       
      or   SAR   means a
      right granted pursuant to Section 8 to receive, upon exercise by the
      Participant, the excess of (i) the Fair Market Value of one Share on
      the date of exercise or any date or dates during a specified period before
      the date of exercise over (ii) the grant price of the right, which
      grant price shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of one Share on
      the date of grant of the right. 

(bb) 

Stock Unit Account 
       means the bookkeeping accounts established, pursuant to Section
      9(b)(ii), on behalf of each Director who elects, pursuant to
      Section 9(b), to have any of his or her Deferred Cash Compensation
      credited to a stock unit
account. 

5 

(cc) 

Unforeseeable
      Emergency      
      means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from (i) an
      illness or accident of the Participant or the Participant s spouse,
      beneficiary, or dependent (as defined in Section 152 of the Code, without
      regard to Sections 152(b)(1), (b)(2), and (d)(1)(B) of the Code), (ii)
      loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or (iii) other similar
      extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of
      events beyond the Participant s control, all as determined by the
      Administrator based on the relevant facts and circumstances and as
      provided for in Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(i)(3) or any successor
      provision. 

(dd)   

Year   means a calendar
      year. 

SECTION
3.  ELIGIBILITY. 

Each
Director shall be eligible to defer Eligible Compensation and to receive Awards
under the Plan. 

SECTION
4.  ADMINISTRATION. 

This Plan
shall be administered by the Administrator. Subject to the terms of the Plan and
applicable law, the Administrator shall have full power and authority
to:  (i) interpret, construe and administer the Plan and any
instrument or agreement relating to, or Award granted or Accounts established
under, the Plan; (ii) establish, amend, suspend or waive such rules and
regulations and appoint such agents as it deems appropriate for the proper
administration of the Plan; and (iii) make any other determination and take any
other action that it deems necessary or desirable for the administration of this
Plan.  All decisions of the Administrator shall be final, conclusive
and binding upon all parties, including the Company, the stockholders and the
Directors. 

SECTION
5.  SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN. 

(a) 

Subject
      to adjustment as provided in this Section 5, the number of Shares
      available for issuance under the Plan shall be 2,000,000
      Shares. 

(b) 

If,
      after the effective date of the Plan, (i) any Shares covered by an Award
      or Stock Unit Account, or to which such an Award relates, are forfeited,
      or (ii) if an Award or Account expires or is cancelled or is otherwise
      terminated without the delivery of Shares, then such Shares, to the extent
      of any such forfeiture, expiration, cancellation, or termination, shall
      again be, or shall become, available for issuance under the
      Plan.  For purposes of this Section, awards and options granted
      under any previous director compensation plan of the Company shall be
      treated as Awards, and accounts established under any such plan shall be
      treated as Accounts.  For the avoidance of doubt, the number of
      Shares available for issuance under the Plan shall  not  be
      increased by: (1) the withholding of Shares as a result of the net
      settlement of an outstanding Option; (2) the delivery of Shares to
      pay the exercise price or withholding taxes relating to an Award; or
      (3) the repurchase of Shares on the open market using the proceeds of
      an Option s exercise. 

(c) 

Any
      Shares delivered pursuant to an Award or Stock Unit Account may consist,
      in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Shares, of treasury Shares
      or of both. 

6 

(d) 

In
      the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of
      cash, Shares, other securities, or other property), recapitalization,
      stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation,
      split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other
      securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to
      purchase Shares or other securities of the Company, or other similar
      corporate transaction or event affects the Shares such that an adjustment
      is appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits
      or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, then
      the Administrator shall equitably adjust any or all of (i) the number of
      outstanding Restricted Stock Units, (ii) the number and type of Shares
      credited to Stock Unit Accounts, (iii) the number and type of Shares
      subject to Options and SARs, (iv) the exercise price with respect to any
      Option or SAR or, if deemed appropriate, make provision for a cash payment
      to the holder of an outstanding Option or SAR, and (v) the aggregate limit
      specified in Section 5(a); provided, however, that no fractional
      Restricted Stock Units or Shares shall be issued or outstanding
      hereunder.  Any such adjustment with respect to a  Stock Right 
      outstanding under the Plan as defined in Section 409A of the Code, shall
      be made in a manner that is intended to avoid imposition of any additional
      tax or penalty under
Section 409A. 

SECTION
6.  OPTIONS. 

Following
the effective date of this Plan, each Director will be granted annually an
Option to purchase 7,000 Shares.  The Options granted will be
nonstatutory stock options not intended to qualify under Section 422 of the Code
and shall have the terms and conditions described in this Section
6: 

(a) 

Price and Term of
      Options .  The purchase price per share of Shares
      deliverable upon the exercise of each Option shall be 100% of the Fair
      Market Value per share of the Shares on the date the Option is
      granted.  In each Year, the effective date for the annual grant
      of options to the Company s executive officers by the Compensation
      Committee of the Board (or any successor committee) shall be the date
      Options are granted; provided that in any Year in which the Compensation
      Committee does not grant options to any of the Company s executive
      officers in connection with the annual compensation review process, then
      the effective date of the first options granted by the Compensation
      Committee in such Year shall be the date Options are
      granted.  Each Option shall have a term not to exceed ten years
      from the date of grant. 

(b) 

Payment .  The
      Secretary shall determine the method or methods by which, and the form or
      forms, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, or other property, or
      any combination thereof, having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date
      equal to the relevant exercise price, in which payment of the exercise
      price with respect to an Option may be made or deemed to have been
      made. 

(c) 

Exercisability.   Subject
      to Section 6(d), Options shall become exercisable in four equal annual
      installments commencing on the first anniversary date of the
      grant. 

7 

(d) 

Termination of Service as a
      Director.   The effect of a Participant s termination of
      service as a member of the Board shall be as
  follows: 

(i) 

Termination
      for cause: All outstanding Options held by the Participant shall be
      canceled immediately upon
termination. 

(ii) 

Death:
      All outstanding Options held by the Participant shall continue to full
      term, becoming exercisable in accordance with Section 6(c), and shall be
      exercisable by such Participant s heirs or legal
      representatives. 

(iii) 

Permanent
      disability, termination after 8 years of service, or termination for
      reason of ineligibility to stand for reelection under the Company s
      By-Laws: All outstanding Options held by the Participant shall continue to
      full term, becoming exercisable in accordance with Section
      6(c). 

(iv) 

Change
      in Control:  If a Participant experiences a Separation From
      Service (other than for cause) within 24 months after a Change in Control
      (Post-2010 Grant), the provisions of Section 6(c) shall not apply and
      Options held by the Participant shall be immediately exercisable and shall
      continue to full term. 

(v) 

Other:
      For any termination other than those specified above, all outstanding
      Options held by the Participant shall be exercisable for 30 days after the
      date of termination, only to the extent that such Options were exercisable
      on the date of termination, except that if the Participant dies within 30
      days after his or her termination, then such Participant s heirs may
      exercise the Options for a period of up to one year after the
      Participant s death, but only to the extent any unexercised portion was
      exercisable on the date of
termination. 

(e) 

Option
      Agreement .  Each Option granted hereunder shall be
      evidenced by an Award Agreement with the Company, which shall contain the
      terms and provisions set forth herein and shall otherwise be consistent
      with the provisions of the Plan. 

SECTION
7.  RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. 

Following
the effective date of this Plan, each Director shall, (i) effective as of the
date of such individual s initial election or appointment to the Board, be
granted 2,000 Restricted Stock Units; and (ii) shall also be granted annually
2,500 Restricted Stock Units.  Each Restricted Stock Unit granted
pursuant to this Section 7 shall be paid or settled by the issuance of one Share
and shall have the terms and conditions described in this Section
7: 

(a) 

Effective Date of Annual
      Grant .  In each Year, the effective date for the annual
      grant of restricted stock units to the Company s executive officers by the
      Compensation Committee of the Board (or any successor committee) shall be
      the date Restricted Stock Units are granted annually under (ii) of the
      first paragraph of this Section; provided that in any Year in which the
      Compensation Committee does not grant restricted stock units to any of the
      Company s executive officers in connection with the annual compensation
      review process, then the effective date of the first restricted stock
      units granted by the Compensation Committee in such Year shall be the date
      such Restricted Stock Units are
granted. 

8 

(b) 

Vesting and
      Settlement .  Subject to Sections 7(c) and 7(d)(iii) and
      subject to a Director s election to defer the settlement of Restricted
      Stock Units pursuant to Section 9, the shares covered by the Restricted
      Stock Units shall be paid or settled as soon as practicable after the
      fourth anniversary of the date of
grant. 

(c) 

Change   in
      Control .  With respect to Restricted Stock Units (2010
      Grant), in the event of a Change in Control (2010 Grant), the provisions
      of Sections 7(b) and (d) shall not apply (except for Section 7(d)(iv),
      which shall apply), any election by a Director to defer settlement of
      Restricted Stock Units  (2010 Grant) pursuant to Section 9 shall
      be cancelled and any such Restricted Stock Units outstanding under this
      Plan shall vest and be paid immediately.  See Section 7(d)(iii)
      for the effect of a Change in Control on all other Restricted Stock
      Units. 

(d) 

Termination of Service as a
      Director .  The effect of a Participant's termination of
      service as a member of the Board shall be as
  follows: 

(i) 

Death:  All
      outstanding Restricted Stock Units held by the Participant shall continue
      to full term subject to the other terms and conditions of this Plan, and
      shares shall be issued to such Participant's heirs at such times and in
      such manner as if the Participant were still a member of the
      Board. 

(ii) 

Permanent
      disability, termination after 8 years of service, or termination for
      reason of ineligibility to stand for reelection under the Company's
      By-Laws:  All outstanding Restricted Stock Units held by the
      Participant shall continue to full term subject to the other terms and
      conditions of this Plan, and shares shall be issued to such Participant at
      such times and in such manner as if the Participant were still a member of
      the Board. 

(iii) 

Separation
      From Service after a Change in Control:  With respect to
      Restricted Stock Units other than Restricted Stock Units (2010 Grant), in
      the event a Participant experiences a Separation From Service (other than
      for cause) within 24 months after a Change in Control (Post-2010 Grant),
      the provisions of Section 7(b) shall not apply
  and: 

(A) 

To
      the extent permitted without additional tax or penalty by Section 409A of
      the Code, all shares underlying such Restricted Stock Units held by the
      Participant (including any such Restricted Stock Units subject to an
      election to defer settlement under Section 9) will be issued on, or as
      soon as practicable (but no later than 60 days) after, the Participant s
      Separation From Service; provided, however, that if the participant is a
      Specified Employee upon such Separation From Service, the shares will be
      issued on, or as soon as practicable (but no more than 10 days) after, the
      first day of the seventh month following the Separation From Service and
      any such Restricted Stock Units outstanding under this Plan shall vest and
      be paid immediately. 

(B) 

To
      the extent that the issuance of shares is not permitted without additional
      tax or penalty by Section 409A, the Award will continue to full term and
      the shares will be issued at the issuance date specified in the Award
      Agreement as if the Participant were still a Director on such date or (for
      any such Restricted Stock Units subject to an election to defer settlement
      pursuant to Section 9) in accordance with Section
  9(h)(i). 

9 

(iv) 

Other:  For
      any termination other than those specified above, all outstanding
      Restricted Stock Units held by the Participant shall terminate and become
      void without any shares being
issued. 

(v) 

With
      respect to Restricted Stock Units (2010 Grant), if a Participant's
      termination of service (other than for cause) occurs within 30 days of a
      Change in Control (2010 Grant), then the Change in Control (2010 Grant)
      shall be deemed to have occurred first and the provisions of Section 7(c)
      shall apply. 

(e) 

Restricted Stock Unit
      Agreement .  Each Restricted Stock Unit Award granted
      under this Section 7 shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement with the
      Company, which shall contain the terms and conditions set forth herein and
      shall otherwise be consistent with the provisions of this
      Plan. 

(f) 

Right to Dividend
      Equivalents.   Each recipient of Restricted Stock Units under
      this Plan shall have the right, during the period when such Restricted
      Stock Units are outstanding and prior to the termination, forfeiture or
      payment or settlement thereof, to receive dividend equivalents equal to
      the amount or value of any cash or other distributions or dividends
      payable on the same number of Shares.  The Company shall
      accumulate dividend equivalents on each dividend payment date and, unless
      a Director has elected to defer receipt of such dividend equivalents
      pursuant to Section 9, pay such accumulated amounts without interest in
      December of each fiscal year, but no later than March 15 of the calendar
      year following the calendar year in which the related dividend is
      declared. 

(g) 

Issuance of
      Shares .  A stock certificate or certificates shall be
      registered and issued or other indicia of ownership of shares shall be
      issued, in the name or for the benefit of the holder of Restricted Stock
      Units and delivered to such holder as soon as practicable after such
      Restricted Stock Units have become payable or settleable in accordance
      with the terms of the Plan. 

SECTION
8.  STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS (SARs). 

(a) 

SARs
      may be granted to Directors with such terms and conditions as the
      Administrator shall determine not inconsistent with the provisions of the
      Plan. 

(b) 

The
      term of each SAR shall be fixed by the Administrator but shall not exceed
      10 years. 

SECTION
9.  DEFERRED COMPENSATION. 

(a) 

Deferral
      Election .  Each Director may elect, with respect to any
      Year, that all or any percentage of his or her Eligible Compensation be
      deferred in accordance with the terms of this
  Plan. 

10 

(b) 

Cash Compensation   Investment
      Alternatives .  Each Director may elect that his or her
      Deferred Cash Compensation for any Year be credited to a Cash Account or a
      Stock Unit Account or to any combination
  thereof. 

(i) 

Cash
      Accounts . 

(A) 

The
      Company shall establish and maintain, as appropriate, separate unfunded
      Cash Accounts for each Director who has elected that any portion of his or
      her Deferred Cash Compensation be credited to a Cash
    Account. 

(B) 

As
      of the date on which any amount of a Director s Deferred Cash Compensation
      becomes payable, his or her Cash Account shall be credited with an amount
      equal to that portion of such Deferred Cash Compensation as such Director
      has elected be credited to his or her Cash
  Account. 

(C) 

As
      of the last day of each month, interest on each Cash Account shall be
      credited on the average of the balances on the first and last day of such
      month.  Interest shall be credited at a rate equivalent to the
      average yield on corporate bonds rated Aaa by Moody s Investors Service on
      September 30 of the preceding Year (or if there is no such yield reported
      for such date, then on the next preceding date for which such a yield is
      reported) as published in Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15, or at
      such other rate that would qualify as a "reasonable rate of interest" as
      defined by Section 409A of the Code, as may be determined by the G SR
      Committee for each Year. 

(ii) 

Stock Unit
      Accounts . 

(A) 

The
      Company shall establish and maintain, as appropriate, separate unfunded
      Stock Unit Accounts for each Director who has elected that any portion of
      his or her Deferred Cash Compensation be credited to a Stock Unit
      Account. 

(B) 

As
      of each date on which any amount of a Director s Deferred Cash
      Compensation becomes payable, his or her Stock Unit Account shall be
      credited with that number of units as are equal to the number of full or
      fractional Shares as could be purchased at the Fair Market Value on the
      first trading day preceding such date with the portion of such Deferred
      Cash Compensation as such Director has elected be credited to his or her
      Stock Unit Account. 

(C) 

As
      of the payment date for each dividend on Shares declared by the Board,
      there shall be credited to each Stock Unit Account that number of units as
      are equal to the number of full or fractional Shares as could be purchased
      at the Fair Market Value on the first trading day preceding the payment
      date for such dividend with an amount equal to the product of: (i) the
      dividend per share, and (ii) the number of units in such Stock Unit
      Account immediately prior to the record date for such
      dividend. 

11 

(c) 

Restricted Stock
      Units .  Each Director may elect to defer all or a portion
      of any Restricted Stock Unit Award. 

(d) 

Dividend
      Equivalents.   Each Director may elect to defer all or a
      portion of any dividend equivalents paid on Restricted Stock
      Units. 

(e) 

Time of
      Election.   An election to defer all or any portion of
      Eligible Compensation for any Year shall be made in writing in the form
      ( Election Form ) prescribed by the Secretary.  The Election
      Form shall contain the Participant's elections as to the time of
      distribution of any compensation so
deferred. 

(i) 

A
      Participant may elect that his or her Deferred Compensation be distributed
      at the time or times indicated
below: 

(A) 

Entire
      balance to be distributed immediately after Separation from Service for
      any reason other than death; 

(B) 

Entire
      balance to be distributed a number of months, as specified by the
      Participant on the Election Form, after Separation from Service for any
      reason other than death, but not later than ten years following such
      Separation from Service; 

(C) 

Approximately
      equal monthly installments for a number of months, as specified by the
      Participant on the Election Form, commencing the month after Separation
      from Service for any reason other than death, provided that distribution
      shall be completed not later than ten years following such Separation from
      Service; or 

(D) 

A
      percentage of the entire balance to be paid on certain dates, with such
      percentages and dates specified by the Participant on the Election Form,
      provided that distribution shall commence no earlier than Separation from
      Service for any reason other than death, and shall be completed not later
      than ten years following such Separation from
  Service. 

(ii) 

A
      Participant may revoke an election as to the time of distribution and
      substitute a new election therefore by submitting an Election Form to the
      Secretary in accordance with the following
  criteria: 

(A) 

Any
      new election regarding the time of distribution must result in a minimum
      of five (5) years  lapse between the currently applicable distribution
      date and the new date of distribution (as determined in accordance with
      the Regulations under Section 409A of the Code);
  and 

(B)

the election must be made at
      least twelve (12) months prior to the date of distribution that would
      otherwise have been applicable.

(iii) 

Except
      as hereinafter provided, to be effective, an Election Form relating to
      payments for a Year, or to Restricted Stock Units that may be granted in
      such Year, must be received by the Secretary on or before December 31 of
      the preceding Year.  In the case of a Director s initial
      election to the Board, the initial Election Form must be received not more
      than 30 days following his or her election to the Board and, if received
      within such 30-day period, the Election Form shall be effective only for
      Eligible Compensation earned after the election becomes irrevocable
      pursuant to Section 9(f).  The time of election and the time of
      distribution shall comply in all respects with the applicable requirements
      of Section 409A of the Code. 

12 

(f) 

Irrevocability of
      Election.   A Director s election to defer all or any
      portion of his or her Eligible Compensation for any Year and a revocation
      and substitution of an election regarding the time of distribution shall
      be irrevocable upon receipt by the Secretary of a completed Election Form
      from the Director. 

(g) 

Form of
      Distributions . 

(i) 

Distributions
      of amounts credited to each Participant s Cash Account shall be made in
      cash. 

(ii) 

Distributions
      of units credited to each Participant s Stock Unit Account shall be made
      by issuing to such Participant an equivalent number of
    Shares. 

(iii) 

Distribution
      of Shares relating to vested Restricted Stock Units the   Participant
      has elected to defer shall be made by issuing to such Participant the
      whole number of Shares attributable to such vested Restricted Stock
      Units.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no fractional shares will
      be issued and any fractional unit will be distributed by payment of cash
      in the amount represented by such fractional unit based on the Fair Market
      Value on the date preceding the date of
payment. 

(h) 

Time of
      Distributions.  

(i) 

Normal
      Distributions.  Except as otherwise hereinafter provided,
      distributions from a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account shall be
      made (Y) on the first day of the month following such Participant s
      Separation from Service on the Board for any reason other than death, or
      (Z) at such later time as the Participant has elected on his or her
      Election Form in accordance with the terms of this
  Plan. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, no distribution may be made to a Specified Employee before the
date that is six months after the date of Separation from Service or, if
earlier, the date of death. 

(ii) 

Change
      in Control.  In the event a Participant experiences a Separation
      From Service (other than for cause) within 24 months after a Change in
      Control (Post-2010 Grant), then, to the extent permitted without
      additional tax or penalty by Section 409A of the Code, such Participant
      shall receive a distribution of the balances credited to the Participant s
      Account which are attributable to amounts credited to the account
      beginning on or after January 1, 2010.  See Section 7(d)(iii)
      for the effect of such Separation From Service on deferred Restricted
      Stock Units. 

The
amounts to be distributed pursuant to this Section 9(h)(ii) shall be paid on, or
as soon as practicable (but no later than 60 days) after, the Participant s
Separation from Service, provided, however, that if the Participant is a
Specified Employee upon such Separation From Service, the balances credited to
the Participant s Account will be distributed on, or as soon as practicable (but
no more than 10 days) after, the first day of the seventh month following such
Separation From Service. 

To the
extent that distributions of amounts pursuant to this Section 9(h)(ii) are not
permitted without additional tax or penalty by Section 409A of the Code, the
affected Participant shall receive distribution of the amounts referred to in
this Section 9(h)(ii) in accordance with Section 9(h)(i). 

13 

(iii) 

Unforeseeable
      Emergency.  An earlier distribution may be made upon a finding
      that the Participant is suffering from an Unforeseeable
      Emergency.  A withdrawal on account of Unforeseeable Emergency
      may not be made to the extent that such emergency is or may be relieved
      (A) through reimbursement or compensation from insurance or otherwise, (B)
      by liquidation of the Participant s assets, to the extent the liquidation
      of such assets would not cause severe financial hardship, or (C) by
      cessation of deferrals under the
Plan. 

Withdrawal
because of an Unforeseeable Emergency must be limited to the amount reasonably
necessary to satisfy the emergency need (which may include amounts necessary to
pay any federal, state, local, or foreign income taxes or penalties reasonably
anticipated to result from the distribution), as determined by the
Administrator, in its sole discretion.  The Participant must apply in
writing for a payment upon an  Unforeseeable Emergency,  using the form
prescribed by the Administrator.  The Administrator retains the sole
and absolute discretion to grant or deny a payment upon an Unforeseeable
Emergency.  In the event of approval of a payment upon an
Unforeseeable Emergency, the Participant s outstanding deferral elections under
the Plan shall be cancelled. 

(i) 

Death of
      Participant .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event
      of the death of a Participant prior to receipt by such Participant of the
      full amount of cash and number of shares to be distributed from his or her
      Deferred Compensation Account, all such cash and/or shares will be
      distributed to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the
      Participant, or if no beneficiary has been designated, to the
      Participant s estate as soon as practicable following the month in which
      the death occurred.  Shares to be distributed to the Participant
      in connection with deferred Restricted Stock Units shall also be
      distributed as described in the preceding sentence but in no event earlier
      than the fourth anniversary of the date of
  grant. 

(j) 

Certain Rights Reserved by the
      Company .  In the event that, pursuant to Section 11, the
      Company suspends, modifies or terminates this Plan, the Company shall have
      the right to distribute to each Participant all amounts in such
      Participant s Cash Account or Shares equivalent to units in such
      Participant s Stock Unit Account, including, in the case of Stock Unit
      Accounts, the right to distribute cash equivalent to the units in such
      Accounts and all Shares attributable to vested Restricted Stock Units that
      a Participant has elected to defer, provided that any such suspension,
      modification or termination may be effected without penalty under Section
      409A of the Code. 

14 

(k) 

Certain
      Affiliations .  In the event that a Participant terminates
      his or her membership on the Board and becomes affiliated with a
      government agency, all amounts in such Participant s Cash Account, shares
      equivalent to units in such Participant s Stock Unit Account and Shares
      attributable to Restricted Stock Units that such Participant has elected
      to defer will be distributed to the Participant if such payment is
      necessary to avoid violation of any applicable federal, state, local or
      foreign ethics or conflict of interest law or if necessary to comply with
      an ethics agreement with the federal
government. 

SECTION
10.  OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS. 

The
Administrator is hereby authorized to grant to Directors such other Awards that
are denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or
otherwise based on or related to, Shares (including, without limitation,
securities convertible into Shares) as are deemed by the Administrator to be
consistent with the purposes of the Plan.  Subject to the terms of the
Plan, the Administrator shall determine the terms and conditions of such
Awards.  Shares or other securities delivered pursuant to a purchase
right granted under this Section 10 shall be purchased for such consideration,
which may be paid by such method or methods and in such form or forms,
including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, or
other property, or any combination thereof, as the Administrator shall
determine, the value of which consideration, as established by the
Administrator, shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of such Shares or
other securities as of the date such purchase right is granted.  The
Company intends that such other Awards granted pursuant to this Section shall
comply with Section 409A of the Code if applicable. 

SECTION
11.  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION. 

Except to
the extent prohibited by or inconsistent with applicable law: 

(a) 

Amendments .  The
      Board may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Plan,
      including, without limitation, the number of shares subject to Awards
      granted pursuant to Sections 6, 7 and 8, without the consent of any
      stockholder, Participant, other holder or beneficiary of any Award, or
      other person;  provided,
      however , that no such amendment, alteration, suspension,
      discontinuation or termination shall be made without (i) stockholder
      approval if such approval is necessary to comply with the listing
      requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or (ii) the consent of the
      affected Participants, if such action would adversely affect the rights of
      such Participants under any outstanding Award; and  provided further , that
      no such amendment or alteration shall increase the aggregate number of
      shares that may be issued under the Plan except as provided in Section
      5(d).  In addition, any such amendment shall be in compliance
      with Section 409A of the Code.  The Administrator may modify any
      outstanding Awards to comply with Section 409A without consent from
      Participants.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan
      or any Award Agreement, no amendment, alteration, suspension,
      discontinuation or termination of the Plan or any Award Agreement shall be
      made that would (1) permit Options or SARs to be granted with a per Share
      exercise price of less than the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date
      of grant thereof or (2) except as provided in Section 5(d), (w) reduce the
      exercise price of any Option or SAR established at the time of grant
      thereof, (x) be treated as a repricing under U.S. generally accepted
      accounting principles ( GAAP ), (y) cancel an Option or
      SAR  in exchange for another Option, SAR, restricted stock unit
      or any other Award, or (z) terminate an Option or SAR in exchange for
      a cash amount equal to or greater than the excess, if any, of the Fair
      Market Value of the underlying Shares on the date of cancellation over the
      exercise price times the number of Shares outstanding under the
      Award.  A cancellation and exchange described in clause (y) of
      the immediately preceding sentence is prohibited regardless of whether the
      option, SAR, restricted stock unit or other equity is delivered
      simultaneously with the cancellation and regardless of whether the
      cancellation and exchange are treated as a repricing under GAAP or are
      voluntary on the part of the
Participant. 

15 

(b) 

Correction of Defects,
      Omissions and Inconsistencies .  The Administrator may
      correct any defect, supply any omission, or reconcile any inconsistency in
      the Plan or any Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem
      desirable to carry the Plan into
effect. 

SECTION
12.  GENERAL PROVISIONS. 

(a) 

No Rights of
      Stockholders .  Neither a Participant nor a Participant s
      legal representative shall be, or have any of the rights and privileges
      of, a stockholder of the Company in respect of any Shares issuable under
      the Plan in connection with any Award or Account, in whole or in part,
      unless and until certificates or other indicia of ownership of such shares
      shall have been issued. 

(b) 

Limits of Transfer of
      Awards.   No Award and no right under any such Award,
      shall be assignable, alienable, saleable or transferable by a Participant
      otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and
      distribution.  During the Participant s lifetime, rights under
      an Award shall be exercisable only by the Participant, or if permissible
      under applicable law, by the Participant s guardian or legal
      representative. 

(c) 

No Limit on Other Compensation
      Arrangements .  Nothing contained in the Plan shall
      prevent the Company from adopting or continuing in effect other or
      additional compensation arrangements, and such arrangements may be either
      generally applicable or applicable only in specific
  cases. 

(d) 

Governing
      Law .  The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan
      and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan shall be determined in
      accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to
      the principles of conflict of laws
thereof. 

(e) 

Severability .  If
      any provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement is or becomes or is
      deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, or as
      to any person, Award or Account, or would disqualify the Plan or any Award
      under any law deemed applicable by the Administrator, such provision shall
      be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or if it
      cannot be so construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of
      the Administrator, materially altering the intent of the Plan or the
      Award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, person or
      Award, and the remainder of the Plan and any such Award shall remain in
      full force and effect. 

(f) 

No Trust or Fund
      Created .  Neither the Plan nor any Award or Account shall
      create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a
      fiduciary relationship between the Company and a Participant or any other
      person.  To the extent that any person acquires a right to
      receive an Award or Account, or Shares pursuant to an Award or Account,
      from the Company pursuant to this Plan, such right shall be no greater
      than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the
      Company. 

16 

(g) 

Accounts
      Unsecured .  Until distributed, all amounts credited to
      any Cash Accounts or represented by units credited to any Stock Unit
      Account shall be property of the Company, available for the Company s use,
      and subject to the claims of general creditors of the
      Company.  The rights of any Participant or beneficiary to
      distributions under this Plan are not subject to anticipation, alienation,
      sale, transfer, assignment, or encumbrance, and shall not be subject to
      the debts or liabilities of any Participant or
  beneficiary. 

(h) 

Withholding .  The
      Company shall be authorized to withhold from any Awards granted or any
      transfer made under any Award or under the Plan or from any dividend
      equivalents to be paid on Restricted Stock Units the amount (in cash,
      Shares, other securities, or other property) of any taxes required to be
      withheld in respect of a grant, exercise, payment or settlement of an
      Award or any payment of dividend equivalents under Restricted Stock Units
      or under the Plan and to take such other action as may be necessary in the
      opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations of the Company for the
      payment of any such taxes. 

(i) 

No Right to Continued Board
      Membership .  The grant of an Award or establishment of an
      Account shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be
      retained as a director of the Company.  The Board may at any
      time fail or refuse to nominate a Participant for election to the Board,
      and the stockholders of the Company may at any election fail or refuse to
      elect any Participant to the Board free from any liability or claim under
      this Plan or any Award or Account. 

(j) 

409A
      Compliance .  The Company makes no representations or
      covenants that any Award granted or Deferred Compensation arrangement
      maintained under the Plan will comply with Section 409A of the
      Code. 

SECTION
13.  EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE PLAN. 

The Plan
shall be effective as of the date of its approval by the stockholders of the
Company. 

SECTION
14.  TERM OF THE PLAN. 

No Award
shall be granted or compensation deferred under the Plan after the tenth
anniversary of the Effective Date of the Plan.  However, unless
otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in an applicable Award Agreement,
any Award granted or Account established prior to the termination of the Plan
may extend beyond such date, and the authority of the Committee and the Board
under Section 11 to amend, alter, adjust, suspend, discontinue, or terminate any
such Award or Account, or to waive any conditions or rights thereunder, shall
extend beyond such date. 

17 

</EX-10.P>

<EX-13>
 6
 ex13.htm
 EXHIBIT 13

ex13.htm 

Exhibit
13 

TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS 2009 ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
2 

See
accompanying notes. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
3 

See
accompanying notes. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
4 

See
accompanying notes. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
5 

See
accompanying notes. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
6 

See
accompanying notes. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
7 

Notes
to financial statements 

1.
Description of business and significant accounting policies and
practices 

Business : At Texas
Instruments (TI), we design and make semiconductors that we sell to electronics
designers and manufacturers all over the world. We have three reportable
segments, which are established along major product categories as
follows: 

Analog  
consists of high-performance analog (includes data converters, amplifiers and
interface products), high-volume analog   logic and power
management, 

Embedded
Processing   consists of digital signal processors (DSPs) and microcontrollers
used in catalog, communications infrastructure and automotive applications,
and 

Wireless
  consists of DSPs and analog used in basebands for handsets, OMAP  applications
processors and connectivity products for wireless
applications. 

In
addition, we report the results of our remaining business activities in Other.
Other includes DLP  products, calculators, reduced-instruction set computing
(RISC) microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits (ASIC) products
and royalties received for our patented technology that we license to other
electronics companies. See Note 14 for additional information on our business
segments. 

Acquisitions    In the second
quarter of 2009, we expanded our microcontroller portfolio by acquiring Luminary
Micro for net cash of $51 million and other consideration of $7 million. We
recognized $15 million of goodwill, which is not expected to be deductible for
tax purposes, $41 million of intangible assets, and $2 million of other net
assets and liabilities. The former Luminary Micro operations were integrated
into our Embedded Processing segment. 

      In the
first quarter of 2009, we acquired CICLON Semiconductor Device Corporation
(CICLON), a designer of high-frequency, high-efficiency power management
semiconductors, for net cash of $104 million and other consideration of $7
million. We recognized $70 million of goodwill, which is not expected to be
deductible for tax purposes, $40 million of intangible assets, and $1 million of
other net assets and liabilities. The former CICLON operations were integrated
into our Analog segment.  

      In the
second quarter of 2008, to obtain design expertise and technology, we made two
acquisitions, both of which were integrated into our Analog segment, for net
cash of $19 million. We recognized $2 million of goodwill and $13 million of
intangible assets.  

      During
2007, to obtain design expertise and technology, we made three acquisitions,
including an asset acquisition, for net cash of $87 million. The asset
acquisition was integrated into our Wireless segment and the remaining two
acquisitions were integrated into our Analog segment. We recognized $48 million
of goodwill and $45 million of intangible assets.  

      With the
exception of the asset acquisition, all acquisitions were accounted for as
purchase business combinations. The results of operations for these acquisitions
have been included in our financial statements from their respective acquisition
dates. Pro forma information has not been presented for these acquisitions
because it would not be materially different from amounts reported. 

Dispositions    In July 2007,
we completed the sale of our broadband digital subscriber line (DSL)
customer-premises equipment semiconductor product line, which was included in
Other, to Infineon Technologies AG (Infineon) for $61 million and recognized a
pre-tax gain of $39 million in cost of revenue. 

Discontinued operations   
Income from discontinued operations in 2007 of $16 million (or $0.01 per share)
includes an income tax benefit related to a reduction of a state tax liability
associated with the sale of our former Sensors   Controls business, which
was renamed Sensata Technologies (Sensata). 

Basis of
presentation : The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
(U.S. GAAP). The basis of these financial statements is comparable for all
periods presented herein, except for the adoption of: 

A
      new accounting standard on business combinations as of January 1, 2009,
      the impact of which was not significant,
and 

A
      new accounting standard on fair-value measurements for financial assets
      and liabilities as of January 1, 2008, and for non-financial assets and
      liabilities as of January 1, 2009, which primarily resulted in additional
      disclosures regarding  fair-value
      measurements.  

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all subsidiaries. All
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
All dollar amounts in the financial statements and tables in the notes, except
per-share amounts, are stated in millions of U.S. dollars unless otherwise
indicated. All amounts in the notes reference continuing operations unless
otherwise indicated.  

      The
preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates from which
final results may vary. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
8 

Revenue recognition :
We recognize revenue from direct sales of our products to our customers,
including shipping fees, when title passes to the customer, which usually occurs
upon shipment or delivery, depending upon the terms of the sales order; when
persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; and when collectibility is
reasonably assured. Estimates of product returns for quality reasons and of
price allowances (based on historical experience, product shipment analysis and
customer contractual arrangements) are recorded when revenue is recognized.
Allowances include volume-based incentives and special pricing arrangements. In
addition, we record allowances for accounts receivable that we estimate may not
be collected.  

      We
recognize revenue from direct sales of our products to our distributors, net of
allowances, consistent with the principles discussed above. Title transfers to
the distributors at delivery or when the products are pulled from consignment
inventory and payment is due on our standard commercial terms; payment terms are
not contingent upon resale of the products. We also grant discounts to some
distributors for prompt payments. We calculate credit allowances based on
historical data, current economic conditions and contractual terms. For
instance, we sell to distributors at standard published prices, but we may grant
them price adjustment credits in response to individual competitive
opportunities they may have. To estimate allowances for this type of credit, we
use statistical percentages of revenue, determined quarterly, based upon recent
historical adjustment trends.  

      We also
provide distributors an allowance to scrap certain slow-moving or obsolete
products in their inventory, estimated as a negotiated fixed percentage of each
distributor s purchases from us. In addition, if we publish a new price for a
product that is lower than that paid by distributors for the same product still
remaining in each distributor s on-hand inventory, we may credit them for the
difference between those prices. The allowance for this type of credit is based
on the identified product price difference applied to our estimate of each
distributor s on-hand inventory of that product. We believe we can reasonably
and reliably estimate allowances for credits to distributors in a timely
manner.  

      We
determine the amount and timing of royalty revenue based on our contractual
agreements with intellectual property licensees. We recognize royalty revenue
when earned under the terms of the agreements and when we consider realization
of payment to be probable. Where royalties are based on a percentage of licensee
sales of royalty-bearing products, we recognize royalty revenue by applying this
percentage to our estimate of applicable licensee sales. We base this estimate
on historical experience and an analysis of each licensee s sales results. Where
royalties are based on fixed payment amounts, we recognize royalty revenue
ratably over the term of the royalty agreement. Where warranted, revenue from
licensees may be recognized on a cash basis.  

      We
include shipping and handling costs in cost of revenue. 

Stock-based
compensation : We have several stock-based employee compensation plans,
which are more fully described in Note 3. We account for all awards granted
under those plans at fair value and estimate fair values for non-qualified stock
options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the assumptions listed
in Note 3. 

Advertising costs : We
expense advertising and other promotional costs as incurred. This expense was
$42 million in 2009, $123 million in 2008 and $194 million in 2007. 

Income taxes : We
account for income taxes using an asset and liability approach. We record the
amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and the deferred tax
assets and liabilities for future tax consequences of events that have been
recognized in the financial statements or tax returns. We record a valuation
allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the
deferred tax assets will not be realized. 

Other assessed taxes :
Some transactions require us to collect taxes such as sales, value-added and
excise taxes from our customers. These transactions are presented in our
statements of income on a net (excluded from revenue) basis. 

Earnings per share
(EPS) : In 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an
update to Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 260,  Earnings per Share , that
required us to calculate EPS using the two-class method beginning January 1,
2009. As a result, unvested awards of share-based payments with rights to
receive dividends or dividend equivalents, such as our restricted stock units
(RSUs), are considered to be participating securities. Under the two-class
method, a portion of income from continuing operations or net income is
allocated to these participating securities and, therefore, is excluded from the
calculation of EPS allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below. We
have adopted the two-class method retroactively and, as a result, all prior
period earnings per share data presented herein have been adjusted to conform to
these provisions. The adoption of this standard resulted in a decrease of $.01
per share to the previously reported basic and diluted EPS for 2008 and a
decrease of $.01 to the previously reported diluted EPS for 2007. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
9 

Computation
and reconciliation of earnings per common share from continuing operations are
as follows (shares in millions): 

Options
to purchase 135 million, 123 million and 46 million shares of common stock were
outstanding during 2009, 2008, and 2007 that were not included in the
computation of diluted earnings per share because their exercise price was
greater than the average market price of the common shares and, therefore, the
effect would be anti-dilutive. 

Investments : We
present investments on our balance sheets as cash equivalents, short-term
investments or long-term investments. More specific details are as
follows: 

Cash equivalents and short-term
investments:  We consider investments in debt securities with original
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. We consider
investments in liquid debt securities with maturities beyond three months from
the date of our investment as being available for use in current operations, and
include these investments in short-term investments. The primary objectives of
our cash equivalent and short-term investment activities are to preserve capital
and maintain liquidity while generating appropriate returns. 

Long-term investments: 
Long-term investments consist of auction-rate securities (debt instruments with
variable interest rates), mutual funds, venture capital funds and non-marketable
equity securities. 

Classification of
investments:  Depending on our reasons for holding the investment and our
ownership percentage, we classify investments in securities as
available-for-sale, trading, equity method or cost method investments, which are
more fully described in Note 7. We determine cost or amortized cost, as
appropriate, on a specific identification basis. 

Inventories :
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value.
Cost is generally computed on a currently adjusted standard cost basis, which
approximates costs on a first-in first-out basis. Standard costs are based on
the normal utilization of installed factory capacity. Costs associated with
underutilization of capacity are expensed as incurred. Inventory held at
consignment locations is included in our finished goods inventory, as we retain
full title and rights to the product.  

      We review
inventory quarterly for salability and obsolescence. A specific allowance is
provided for inventory considered unlikely to be sold. Remaining inventory
includes a salability and obsolescence allowance based on an analysis of
historical disposal activity. We write off inventory in the period in which
disposal occurs. 

Property, plant and
equipment and other capitalized costs : Property, plant and equipment are
stated at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the
straight-line method. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the
straight-line method over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the
estimated useful lives of the improvements. We amortize acquisition-related
intangibles on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life of the
assets. Capitalized software licenses generally are amortized on a straight-line
basis over the term of the license. Fully depreciated or amortized assets are
written off against accumulated depreciation or amortization. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
10 

Impairments of long-lived
assets : We regularly review whether facts or circumstances exist that
indicate the carrying values of property, plant and equipment or other
long-lived assets, including intangible assets, are impaired. We assess the
recoverability of assets by comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows
associated with those assets to their respective carrying amounts. Any
impairment charge is based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair
value of those assets. Fair value is determined by available market valuations,
if applicable, or by discounted cash flows (DCF). 

Goodwill : Goodwill is
not amortized but is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if
certain impairment indicators arise. We complete our annual goodwill impairment
tests as of October 1 for our reporting units. The test compares the fair value
for each reporting unit to its associated carrying value including
goodwill. 

Foreign currency : The
functional currency for our non-U.S. subsidiaries is the U.S. dollar. Accounts
recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are remeasured into the
functional currency. Current assets (except inventories), deferred income taxes,
other assets, current liabilities and long-term liabilities are remeasured at
exchange rates in effect at the end of each reporting period. Inventories, and
property, plant and equipment and depreciation thereon, are remeasured at
historic exchange rates. Revenue and expense accounts other than depreciation
for each month are remeasured at the appropriate daily rate of exchange.
Currency exchange gains and losses from remeasurement are credited or charged to
other income (expense) net (OI E). 

Derivatives and
hedging : We use derivative financial instruments to manage exposure to
foreign exchange risk. These instruments are primarily forward foreign currency
exchange contracts that are used as economic hedges to reduce the earnings
impact exchange rate fluctuations may have on our non-U.S. dollar net balance
sheet exposures or for specified non-U.S. dollar forecasted transactions. Gains
and losses from changes in the fair value of these forward foreign currency
exchange contracts are credited or charged to OI E. We do not use
derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. We do not apply hedge
accounting to our foreign currency derivative instruments. 

Changes in accounting
standards : In June 2009, the FASB Accounting Standards Codification 
(Codification) became the single source of authoritative U.S. GAAP. The
Codification did not create any new GAAP standards, but incorporated existing
accounting and reporting standards into a new topical structure with a new
referencing system to identify authoritative accounting standards, replacing the
prior references to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS), Emerging
Issues Task Force (EITF), FASB Staff Position (FSP), etc. Authoritative
standards included in the Codification are designated by their ASC topical
reference, and new standards issued after July 1, 2009, are designated as
Accounting Standards Updates (ASUs), with a year and assigned sequence number.
References to prior standards have been updated to reflect the new
system.  

      In
October 2009, the FASB concurrently issued the following ASUs: 

ASU
      No. 2009   14 -  Software
      (Topic 985): Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements.
       This standard removes tangible products from the scope of software
      revenue recognition guidance and also provides guidance on determining
      whether software deliverables in an arrangement that includes a tangible
      product, such as embedded software, are within the scope of the software
      revenue guidance. 

ASU
      No. 2009   13 -  Revenue
      Recognition (Topic 605): Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements. 
      This standard modifies the revenue recognition guidance for arrangements
      that involve the delivery of multiple elements, such as product, software,
      services and support, to a customer at different times as part of a single
      revenue generating transaction. This standard provides principles and
      application guidance to determine whether multiple deliverables exist, how
      the individual deliverables should be separated and how to allocate the
      revenue in the arrangement among those separate deliverables. The standard
      also expands the disclosure requirements for multiple deliverable revenue
      arrangements. 

We expect
to apply these standards on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered
into or materially modified beginning January 1, 2011. We have evaluated the
potential impact of these standards and expect they will have no significant
impact on our financial position and results of operations. 

2.
Restructuring activities 

Costs
incurred with restructuring activities generally consist of voluntary and
involuntary severance-related expenses, asset impairments and other costs to
exit activities. We recognize voluntary termination benefits when the employee
accepts the offered benefit arrangement. We recognize involuntary
severance-related expenses depending on whether the termination benefits are
provided under an ongoing benefit arrangement or under a one-time benefit
arrangement. We recognize involuntary severance-related expenses associated with
an ongoing benefit arrangement once they are probable and the amounts are
estimable. We recognize involuntary severance-related expenses associated with a
one-time benefit arrangement once the benefits have been communicated to
employees. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
11 

Restructuring
activities have also resulted in asset impairments, which are included in
restructuring expense and are recorded as an adjustment to the basis of the
asset, not as a liability relating to a restructuring charge. When we commit to
a plan to abandon a long-lived asset before the end of its previously estimated
useful life, we accelerate the recognition of depreciation to reflect the use of
the asset over its shortened useful life. When an asset is held to be sold, we
write down the carrying value to its net realizable value and cease
depreciation. 

2008 and 2009
actions   

      In
October 2008, we announced actions to reduce expenses in our Wireless segment,
especially our baseband operation. In January 2009, we announced actions that
included broad-based employment reductions to align our spending with weakened
demand. Combined, these actions eliminated about 3,900 jobs; they were completed
in 2009. 

2007
actions   

      In
January 2007, we announced plans to change how we develop advanced digital
manufacturing process technology. Instead of separately creating our own core
process technology, we now work collaboratively with our foundry partners to
specify and drive the next generations of digital process technology.
Additionally, we stopped production at an older digital factory. These actions
eliminated about 300 jobs and were completed in 2007. 

The table
below reflects the changes in accrued restructuring balances associated with
these actions: 

*
Reflects charges and credits for postretirement benefit plan settlement,
curtailment and special termination benefits. 

The
accrual balances above are a component of Accrued expenses and other liabilities
or Deferred credits and other liabilities on our balance sheets, depending on
the expected timing of payment. 

Restructuring
expense recognized by segment from the actions above are as
follows: 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
12 

3.
Stock-based compensation 

These
amounts include expense related to non-qualified stock options, RSUs and to
stock options offered under our employee stock purchase plan.  

      We issue
awards of non-qualified stock options generally with graded vesting provisions
(e.g., 25 percent per year for four years). In such cases, we recognize the
related compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the minimum service
period required for vesting of the award. For awards to employees who are
retirement eligible or nearing retirement eligibility, we recognize compensation
cost on a straight-line basis over the longer of the service period required to
be performed by the employee in order to earn the award, or a six-month
period.  

      We also
issue RSUs, which generally vest four years after the date of grant. In such
cases, we recognize the related compensation costs on a straight-line basis over
the vesting period. 

Fair value methods and
assumptions   

      We
estimate the fair values for non-qualified stock options under the long-term
incentive plans and director plans using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model
with the following weighted average assumptions: 

We
determine expected volatility on all options granted after July 1, 2005, using
available implied volatility rates rather than on an analysis of historical
volatility. We believe that market-based measures of implied volatility are
currently the best available indicators of the expected volatility used in these
estimates.  

      We
determine expected lives of options based on the historical share option
exercise experience of our optionees using a rolling 10-year average. We believe
the historical experience method is the best estimate of future exercise
patterns currently available.  

      Risk-free
interest rates are determined using the implied yield currently available for
zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the expected
life of the options.  

      Expected
dividend yields are based on the approved annual dividend rate in effect and the
current market price of our common stock at the time of grant. No assumption for
a future dividend rate change is included unless there is an approved plan to
change the dividend in the near term.  

      The fair
value per share of RSUs that we grant is determined based on the market price of
our common stock on the date of grant.  

      The TI
Employees 2005 Stock Purchase Plan is a discount-purchase plan and consequently,
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model is not used to determine the fair value
per share of these awards. The fair value per share under this plan equals the
amount of the discount. 

Long-term incentive and
director compensation plans   

      We have
stock options outstanding to participants under the Texas Instruments 1996
Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Texas Instruments 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan,
the Texas Instruments 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Texas Instruments
2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan. No further grants may be made under the 1996,
2000 or 2003 plans. We also assumed stock options granted under the Burr-Brown
1993 Stock Incentive Plan and the Radia Communications, Inc. 2000 Stock
Option/Stock Issuance Plan. Unless the options are acquisition-related
replacement options, the option price per share may not be less than 100 percent
of the fair market value of our common stock on the date of the grant.
Substantially all the options have a 10-year term and vest ratably over four
years. Our options generally continue to vest after the option recipient
retires. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
13 

We have
RSUs outstanding under the 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 2003 Long-Term
Incentive Plan and the 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Each RSU represents the
right to receive one share of TI common stock on the vesting date, which is
generally four years after the date of grant. Upon vesting, the shares are
issued without payment by the grantee. RSUs generally do not continue to vest
after the recipient s retirement date.  

      Under the
2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan approved by stockholders in April 2009, we may
grant stock options, including incentive stock options, restricted stock and
RSUs, performance units and other stock-based awards. The plan provides for the
issuance of 75,000,000 shares of TI common stock. Shares issued under
acquisition-related replacement awards do not count against the shares available
for grant under the plan. In addition, if a stock-based award (other than an
acquisition-related replacement award) under any predecessor plan terminates,
the unissued shares subject to the award become available for grant under the
2009 plan.  

      Under our
2003 Director Compensation Plan, we made annual grants of stock options, RSUs
and other stock-based awards to each non-employee director. Beginning in 2007,
the plan provided for annual grants of 2,500 RSUs and of a stock option for
7,000 shares. The plan also provided for a one-time grant of 2,000 RSUs to each
new non-employee director of TI. No further grants of stock-based awards may be
made under the 2003 Director Compensation Plan.  

      In April
2009, our stockholders approved the Texas Instruments 2009 Director Compensation
Plan. The plan permits the grant of stock options, RSUs and other stock-based
awards to non-employee directors, as well as issuance of TI common stock upon
the distribution of stock units credited to deferred-compensation accounts
established for such directors. The plan provides for annual grants to
non-employee directors, and for a one-time grant of RSUs to each new
non-employee director, at the same levels described above under the 2003 plan.
The plan provides for the issuance of 2,000,000 shares of TI common
stock. 

Stock
option and RSU transactions under the above-mentioned long-term incentive and
director compensation plans (including assumed stock options previously granted
under the Burr-Brown and Radia Communications, Inc. plans) during 2009 were as
follows: 

The
weighted average grant-date fair value of RSUs granted during the years 2009,
2008 and 2007 was $15.78, $29.09 and $29.46 per share. For the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the total fair value of shares vested from RSU
grants was $28 million, $20 million and $12 million. 

Summarized
information about stock options outstanding under the various long-term plans
mentioned above at December 31, 2009, is as follows: 

During
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the aggregate intrinsic value
(i.e., the difference in the closing market price and the exercise price paid by
the optionee) of options exercised under these plans was $21 million, $110
million and $606 million. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
14 

Summarized
information as of December 31, 2009, about outstanding stock options that are
vested and expected to vest, as well as stock options that are currently
exercisable, is as follows: 

(a) 

Includes
      effects of expected forfeitures. Excluding the effects of expected
      forfeitures, the aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding
      was $483 million. 

As of
December 31, 2009, the total future compensation cost related to unvested stock
options and RSUs not yet recognized in the statements of income was $117 million
and $139 million. Of that total, $118 million, $85 million, $48 million and $5
million will be recognized in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. 

Employee stock purchase
plan   

      Under the
TI Employees 2005 Stock Purchase Plan, options are offered to all eligible
employees in amounts based on a percentage of the employee s compensation. Under
the plan, the option price per share is 85 percent of the fair market value on
the exercise date, and options have a three-month term.  

      Options
outstanding under the plan at December 31, 2009, had an exercise price of $22.11
per share (85 percent of the fair market value of TI common stock on the date of
automatic exercise). Of the total outstanding options, none were exercisable at
year-end 2009. 

Employee
stock purchase plan transactions during 2009 were as follows: 

(a) 

Excludes
      options offered but not granted. 

The
weighted average grant-date fair value of options granted under the employee
stock purchase plans during the years 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $3.13, $3.37 and
$5.10 per share. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the
total intrinsic value of options exercised under these plans was $10 million,
$11 million and $11 million. 

Effect on shares outstanding
and treasury shares   

      Our
practice is to issue shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options
generally from treasury shares and, on a limited basis, from previously unissued
shares. We settled stock option plan exercises using treasury shares of
6,695,583 in 2009; 11,217,809 in 2008 and 39,791,295 in 2007; and previously
unissued common shares of 93,648 in 2009; 85,472 in 2008 and 511,907 in
2007.  

      Upon
vesting of RSUs, we issued treasury shares of 977,728 in 2009; 544,404 in 2008
and 515,209 in 2007; and previously unissued common shares of zero in 2009; zero
in 2008 and 12,000 in 2007. 

Shares
available for future grant and reserved for issuance are summarized
below: 

(a) 

Includes
      138,633 shares credited to directors  deferred compensation accounts that
      may settle in shares of TI common stock on a one-for-one basis. These
      shares are not included as grants outstanding at December 31,
      2009. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
15 

Effect on cash
flows   

      Cash
received from the exercise of options was $109 million in 2009, $210 million in
2008 and $761 million in 2007. The related net tax impact realized was ($2)
million, $31 million and $204 million (which includes excess tax benefits
realized of $1 million, $19 million and $116 million) in 2009, 2008 and
2007. 

4.
Profit sharing plans 

Profit
sharing benefits are generally formulaic and determined by one or more
subsidiary or company-wide financial metrics. We pay profit sharing benefits
primarily under the company-wide TI Employee Profit Sharing Plan. This plan
provides for profit sharing to be paid based solely on TI s operating margin for
the full calendar year. Under this plan, TI must achieve a minimum threshold of
10 percent operating margin before any profit sharing is paid. At 10 percent
operating margin, profit sharing will be 2 percent of eligible payroll. The
maximum amount of profit sharing available under the plan is 20 percent of
eligible payroll, which is paid only if TI s operating margin is at or above 35
percent for a full calendar year.  

      We
recognized $102 million, $121 million and $180 million of profit sharing expense
under the TI Employee Profit Sharing Plan in 2009, 2008 and 2007. 

5.
Income taxes 

Principal
reconciling items from income tax computed at the statutory federal rate
follow: 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
16 

The
primary components of deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as
follows: 

As of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, net deferred income tax assets of $1.41 billion and
$1.63 billion were presented in the balance sheets, based on tax jurisdiction,
as deferred income tax assets of $1.47 billion and $1.69 billion and deferred
income tax liabilities of $67 million and $59 million. The decrease in net
deferred income tax assets from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, exceeds
the $146 million deferred tax provision primarily due to the recording of
deferred tax assets associated with postretirement benefit costs recognized in
accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI). We make an ongoing assessment
regarding the realization of U.S. and non-U.S. deferred tax assets. While these
assets are not assured of realization, our assessment is that a valuation
allowance is not required for the remaining balance of the deferred tax assets.
This assessment is based on our evaluation of relevant criteria including the
existence of (a) deferred tax liabilities that can be used to absorb deferred
tax assets, (b) taxable income in prior carryback years and (c) expectations for
future taxable income.  

      We have
aggregate U.S. and non-U.S. tax loss carryforwards of approximately $289
million, of which $149 million expire through the year 2024.  

      Provision
has been made for deferred taxes on undistributed earnings of non-U.S.
subsidiaries to the extent that dividend payments from these subsidiaries are
expected to result in additional tax liability. The remaining undistributed
earnings (approximately $3.06 billion at December 31, 2009) have been
indefinitely reinvested; therefore, no provision has been made for taxes due
upon remittance of these earnings. It is not practicable to determine the amount
of unrecognized deferred tax liability on these unremitted
earnings.  

      Cash
payments made for income taxes (net of refunds) were $331 million, $772 million
and $733 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007. 

Uncertain tax
positions : We operate in a number of tax jurisdictions and are subject to
examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities in those jurisdictions
who may challenge any item on these tax returns. Because the matters challenged
by authorities are typically complex, their ultimate outcome is uncertain. We
recognize accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions and penalties as
components of OI E. Before any benefit can be recorded in the financial
statements, we must determine that it is  more likely than not  that a tax
position will be sustained by the appropriate tax authorities. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
17 

The
following table summarizes the changes in the total amounts of uncertain tax
positions for 2009 and 2008: 

The
liabilities for uncertain tax positions and accrued interest payable are a
component of Deferred credits and other liabilities, and accrued interest
receivable is a component of Other assets on our balance
sheets.  

      During
2009, a $90 million payment was made in respect of U.S. tax return audits for
the years 2003 through 2006 for all settled audit adjustments on which the
adjustment amount had been agreed with the IRS. The audit adjustments had been
previously reflected in our liability for uncertain tax positions and the
payment had no income statement impact. Other U.S. tax audit issues for these
years remain unresolved and subject to issue resolution processes. A $20 million
tax interest payment was also made in 2009 for the interest liability that had
been accrued on the same agreed U.S. tax audit adjustments.  

      The $56
million liability for uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2009,
represents tax positions that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax
rate. If these tax liabilities are ultimately realized, $28 million of deferred
tax assets would also be realized, primarily related to refunds from
counterparty jurisdictions resulting from procedures for relief from double
taxation.  

      As of
December 31, 2009, the statute of limitations remains open for U.S. federal tax
returns for 1999 and following years. Our returns for the years 2000 through
2006 are the subject of tax treaty procedures for relief from double taxation;
and our returns for the years 2003 through 2006 will be the subject of an
appeals proceeding in 2010. Cases currently before the United States Tax Court
could have an impact on the determination of our uncertain tax positions and the
outcome of the 2010 appeals proceeding. It is reasonably possible that the
appeals proceeding will be completed within the next 12 months.  

      In
foreign jurisdictions, the years open to audit represent the years still subject
to the statute of limitations. Years still open to audit by foreign tax
authorities in major jurisdictions include Germany (2004 onward), France (2007
onward), Japan (2002 onward) and Taiwan (2004 onward).  

      We are
unable to estimate the range of any reasonably possible increase or decrease in
uncertain tax positions that may occur within the next 12 months resulting from
the eventual outcome of the years currently under audit or appeal. However, we
do not anticipate any such outcome will result in a material change to our
financial condition or results of operations. 

6.
Financial instruments and risk concentration 

Financial
instruments : We hold derivative financial instruments such as forward
foreign currency exchange contracts, forward purchase contracts and investment
warrants, the fair value of which is not material at December 31, 2009. Our
forward foreign currency exchange contracts outstanding at December 31, 2009,
had a notional value of $465 million to hedge our non-U.S. dollar net balance
sheet exposures (including $220 million to sell Japanese yen, $37 million to
sell euros and $49 million to buy Taiwan dollars).  

      Cash
equivalents, short-term investments, certain long-term investments,
postretirement plan assets and deferred compensation liabilities are carried at
fair value. The carrying values for other current financial assets and
liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair
value due to their short maturity. 

Risk concentration :
Financial instruments that could subject us to concentrations of credit risk are
primarily cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and accounts
receivable. In order to manage our credit risk exposure, we place cash
investments in investment-grade debt securities and limit the amount of credit
exposure to any one issuer. We also limit counterparties on forward foreign
currency exchange contracts to investment-grade-rated financial
institutions.  

      Concentrations
of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are limited due to the large
number of customers in our customer base and their dispersion across different
industries and geographic areas. We maintain an allowance for losses based on
the expected collectibility of accounts receivable. These allowances are
deducted from accounts receivable on our balance sheets. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
18 

Details
of these allowances are as follows: 

7.
Valuation of debt and equity investments and certain liabilities 

Debt and equity
investments   

      We
classify our investments as available-for-sale, trading, equity method or cost
method. Most of our investments are classified as
available-for-sale.  

      Available-for-sale
securities consist primarily of money market funds and debt securities.
Available-for-sale securities are stated at fair value, which is generally based
on market prices, broker quotes or, when necessary, financial models (see fair
value discussion below). We record other-than-temporary losses (impairments) on
these securities in OI E in our statements of income, and all other
unrealized gains and losses as an increase or decrease, net of taxes, in AOCI on
our balance sheet.  

      Trading
securities are stated at fair value based on market prices. Our trading
securities consist exclusively of mutual funds that hold a variety of debt and
equity investments intended to generate returns that offset changes in certain
deferred compensation liabilities. We record changes in the fair value of our
trading securities and the related deferred compensation liabilities in selling,
general and administrative (SG A) expense in our statements of
income.  

      Our other
investments are not measured at fair value but are accounted for using either
the equity method or cost method. These investments consist of interests in
venture capital funds and other non-marketable equity securities. Gains or
losses from equity method investments are reflected in OI E based on our
ownership share of the investee s financial results. Gains and losses on cost
method investments are recorded in OI E when realized or when an impairment
of the investment s value is warranted based on our assessment of the
recoverability of each investment. 

Details
of our investments and related unrealized gains and losses included in AOCI are
as follows: 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
19 

As of
December 31, 2009, about 80 percent of our investments in the corporate
obligations shown above are insured by either the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC) or the U.K. government.  

As of
December 31, 2009, unrealized losses included in AOCI were associated with
auction-rate securities. As of December 31, 2008, unrealized losses included in
AOCI were primarily associated with auction-rate securities and mortgage-backed
securities. The change in unrealized losses from December 31, 2008, was due to
increases in fair values of the investments held as well as the effects of
redemptions and sales since that date.  

      As of
December 31, 2009, we have determined that our investments classified as
available-for-sale with unrealized losses are not other-than-temporarily
impaired. We expect to recover the entire cost basis of these securities. We do
not intend to sell these investments, nor do we expect to be required to sell
these investments before a recovery of the cost basis. For the year ended
December 31, 2009, we did not recognize in earnings any credit losses related to
these investments.  

      Proceeds
from sales of available-for-sale securities prior to their scheduled maturities
were $1.37 billion, $1.76 billion and $2.12 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007.
Gross realized gains and losses from these sales were not
significant. 

The
following table presents the aggregate maturities of investments in debt
securities classified as available-for-sale at December 31, 2009: 

Gross
realized gains and losses from sales of other long-term investments were not
significant for any periods presented. Other-than-temporary declines and
impairments in the values of these investments recognized in OI E were $14
million, $10 million and $18 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007. 

Fair value
considerations   

      As noted
above, we measure and report our financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most
advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants on the measurement date.  

      The
three-level hierarchy discussed below indicates the extent and level of judgment
used to estimate fair-value measurements.  

Level
      1   

Uses
      unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for
      identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting
  date. 

Level
      2   

Uses
      inputs other than Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly
      observable as of the reporting date through correlation with market data,
      including quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active
      markets and quoted prices in markets that are not active. Level 2 also
      includes assets and liabilities that are valued using models or other
      pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment since the
      input assumptions used in the models, such as interest rates and
      volatility factors, are corroborated by readily observable
      data. 

Level
      3   

Uses
      inputs that are unobservable, supported by little or no market activity
      and reflect the use of significant management judgment. These values are
      generally determined using pricing models that utilize management
      estimates of market participant
assumptions. 

We own
auction-rate securities that are classified as Level 3 assets. Auction-rate
securities are debt instruments with variable interest rates that historically
would periodically reset through an auction process. There is currently no
active market for auction-rate securities, so we use a DCF model to determine
the estimated fair value of these investments as of each quarter end. The
assumptions used in preparing the DCF model include estimates for the amount and
timing of future interest and principal payments and the rate of return required
by investors to own these securities in the current environment. In making these
assumptions we consider relevant factors including: the formula for each
security that defines the interest rate paid to investors in the event of a
failed auction; forward projections of the interest rate benchmarks specified in
such formulas; the likely timing of principal repayments; the probability of
full repayment considering the guarantees by the U.S. Department of Education of
the underlying student loans and additional credit enhancements provided through
other means; and, publicly available pricing data for student loan asset-backed
securities that are not subject to auctions. Our estimate of the rate of return
required by investors to own these securities also considers the reduced
liquidity for auction-rate securities.  

      To date,
we have collected all interest on all of our auction-rate securities when due
and expect to continue to do so in the future. The principal associated
with failed auctions will not be accessible until successful auctions resume, a
buyer is found outside of the auction process, or issuers use a different form
of financing to replace these securities. Meanwhile, issuers continue to repay
principal over time from cash flows prior to final maturity, or make final
payments when they come due according to contractual maturities
ranging from 13 to 38 years. All of our auction-rate securities are backed
by pools of student loans substantially guaranteed by the U.S. Department
of Education, and we continue to believe that the credit quality of these
securities is high based on this guarantee. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
20 

As of
December 31, 2009, all of these securities had the highest possible long-term
credit rating from at least one of the major rating agencies. One security (with
a par value of $25 million) had a long-term credit rating below AAA/Aaa, and it
was rated AAA/B3. While our ability to liquidate auction-rate investments is
likely to be limited for some period of time, we do not believe this will
materially impact our ability to fund our working capital needs, capital
expenditures, dividend payments or other business
requirements.  

The
following are our assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value
on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2009, and 2008. These tables do not
include cash on hand, assets held by our postretirement plans or assets and
liabilities that are measured at historical cost or any basis other than fair
value. 

(a) 

The
      liabilities above are a component of Accrued expenses and other
      liabilities or Deferred credits and other liabilities on our balance
      sheets, depending on the expected timing of
  payment. 

The
following table summarizes the change in the fair values for Level 3 assets and
liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
21 

           8.
Goodwill and other acquisition-related intangibles 

Changes
in goodwill as of December 31, 2009, by segment are as follows: 

There was
no impairment of goodwill during 2009 or 2008. The goodwill balances shown on
our balance sheets are net of total accumulated amortization of $221 million at
year-end 2009 and 2008.  

      In 2009,
2008 and 2007, we recognized intangible assets associated with acquisitions we
made during the year of $81 million, $13 million and $45 million, respectively,
primarily for developed technology, to be amortized over two to eight
years. 

The
following table shows the components of acquisition-related intangible
assets: 

(a) 

Not
      yet subject to amortization. 

Amortization
of acquisition-related intangibles was $48 million, $37 million and $48 million
for 2009, 2008 and 2007, primarily related to developed technology. 

The
following table sets forth the estimated amortization of acquisition-related
intangibles for the years ended December 31: 

9.
Postretirement benefit plans 

Plan descriptions : We
have various employee retirement plans including defined benefit, defined
contribution and retiree health care benefit plans. For qualifying employees, we
offer deferred compensation arrangements. 

U.S.
retirement plans:  

      Principal
retirement plans in the U.S. are qualified and non-qualified defined
benefit pension plans (all of which closed to new participants after November
1997), a defined contribution plan and an enhanced defined contribution plan.
The defined benefit pension plans include employees still accruing benefits as
well as employees and participants that no longer accrue service-related
benefits, but instead, may participate in the enhanced defined contribution
plan.  

      Both
defined contribution plans offer an employer-matching savings option that allows
employees to make pre-tax contributions to various investment choices, including
a TI common stock fund. Employees who elected to continue accruing a benefit in
the qualified defined benefit pension plans may also participate in the defined
contribution plan, where employer-matching contributions are provided for
up to 2 percent of the employee s annual eligible earnings. Employees who
elected not to continue accruing a benefit in the defined benefit pension
plans, and employees hired after November 1997 and through December 31, 2003,
may participate in the 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
22 

enhanced
defined contribution plan. This plan provides for a fixed employer contribution
of 2 percent of the employee s annual eligible earnings, plus an
employer-matching contribution of up to 4 percent of the employee s annual
eligible earnings. Employees hired after December 31, 2003, do not receive the
fixed employer contribution of 2 percent of the employee s annual eligible
earnings.  

      At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, as a result of employees  elections, TI s U.S.
defined contribution plans held shares of TI common stock totaling 29 million
shares and 32 million shares valued at $759 million and $494 million,
respectively. Dividends paid on these shares for 2009 and 2008 totaled $14
million each year.  

      Our
aggregate expense for the U.S. defined contribution plans was $51 million in
2009 and $56 million in each of 2008 and 2007.  

      Benefits
under the qualified defined benefit pension plan are determined using a formula
based upon years of service and the highest five consecutive years of
compensation. We intend to contribute amounts to this plan to meet the minimum
funding requirements of applicable local laws and regulations, plus such
additional amounts as we deem appropriate. The non-qualified defined benefit
plans are unfunded and closed to new participants. 

U.S.
retiree health care benefit plan:  

      U.S.
employees that meet eligibility requirements are offered medical coverage during
retirement. We make a contribution toward the cost of those retiree medical
benefits for certain retirees and their dependents. The contribution rates are
based upon various factors, the most important of which are an employee s date
of hire, date of retirement, years of service and eligibility for Medicare
benefits. The balance of the cost is borne by the plan s participants. Employees
hired after January 1, 2001, are responsible for the full cost of their medical
benefits during retirement. 

Non-U.S.
retirement plans:  

      We
provide retirement coverage for non-U.S. employees, as required by local laws or
to the extent we deem appropriate, through a number of defined benefit and
defined contribution plans. Retirement benefits are generally based on an
employee s years of service and compensation. Funding requirements are
determined on an individual country and plan basis and are subject to local
country practices and market circumstances.  

      As of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, as a result of employees  elections, TI s non-U.S.
defined contribution plans held TI common stock valued at $13 million and $10
million, respectively. Dividends paid on these shares of TI common stock for
2009 and 2008 were not material. 

Effect on the statements of
income and balance sheets  

Expense
related to defined benefit and retiree health care benefit plans was as
follows: 

For the
U.S. qualified pension and retiree health care plans, the expected return on
plan assets component of net periodic benefit cost is based upon a
market-related value of assets. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the market-related
value of assets generally utilizes a smoothing technique whereby certain gains
and losses are phased in over a period of three years. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
23 

Changes
in the benefit obligations and plan assets for the defined benefit and retiree
health care benefit plans were as follows: 

Amounts
recognized on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2009: 

Amounts
recognized on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2008: 

The
preceding tables present aggregate information for all plans reported.
Accumulated benefit obligations, which represent the benefit obligations
excluding the impact of future salary increases, were $817 million and $783
million at year-end 2009 and 2008 for the U.S. defined benefit plans, and $1.79
billion and $1.71 billion at year-end 2009 and 2008 for the non-U.S. defined
benefit plans. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
24 

The
amounts recorded in AOCI for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, are
detailed below by plan type: 

The
estimated amounts of net actuarial loss and unrecognized prior service cost
included in AOCI as of December 31, 2009, that are expected to be amortized into
net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year are: $19 million and $1
million for the U.S. defined benefit plans; $12 million and $2 million for the
U.S. retiree health care plan; and $29 million and ($3) million for the non-U.S.
defined benefit plans. 

Information on plan
assets   

      In 2008,
we adopted the provisions of ASC 820,  Fair Value Measurements and
Disclosures , for reporting and measuring the plan assets of our defined
benefit pension and other postretirement plans at fair value. For the year ended
December 31, 2009, we also began providing expanded disclosures, including
information about our investment policies and strategies, significant
concentrations of risk, and, similar to the disclosures in Note 7, plan assets
by category and classification of plan assets by level within the fair value
hierarchy.  

      The table
below sets forth the fair value of our plan assets as of December 31, 2009,
using the same three-level hierarchy of fair-value inputs described in Note
7. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
25 

The
following table summarizes the change in the fair values for Level 3 plan assets
for the year ending December 31, 2009: 

The
investments in our major benefit plans largely consist of low-cost, broad-market
index funds to mitigate risks of concentration within market sectors. In recent
years, our investment policy has shifted toward a closer matching of the
interest-rate sensitivity of the plan assets and liabilities. The appropriate
mix of equity and bond investments is determined primarily through the use of
detailed asset-liability modeling studies that look to balance the impact of
changes in the discount rate against the need to provide asset growth to cover
future service cost. Most of our plans around the world have added a greater
proportion of fixed income securities with return characteristics that are more
closely aligned with changes in the liabilities caused by discount rate
volatility. For the U.S. plans, we utilize an option collar strategy to reduce
the volatility of returns on investments in U.S. equity funds.  

      The only
Level 3 assets in our worldwide benefit plans are certain private equity limited
partnerships in our U.S. pension plan and diversified hedge funds in a non-U.S.
pension plan. These investments are valued using inputs from the fund managers
and internal models. 

Assumptions
and investment policies 

In order
to select a discount rate for purposes of valuing the plan obligations, an
analysis is performed in which the projected cash flows from significant defined
benefit and retiree health care plans are matched with a yield curve based on an
appropriate universe of high-quality corporate bonds that are available in each
country. In this manner, a present value is developed. The discount rate
selected is the single equivalent rate that produces the same present value.
This approach produces a discount rate that recognizes each plan s distinct
liability characteristics. Assumptions used for the non-U.S. defined benefit
plans reflect the different economic environments within the various
countries.  

      Assumptions
for the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets are based on future
expectations for returns for each asset class and the effect of periodic target
asset allocation rebalancing. We adjust the results for the payment of
reasonable expenses of the plan from plan assets. We believe our assumptions are
appropriate based on the investment mix and long-term nature of the plans 
investments. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
26 

The table
below shows target allocation ranges for the plans that hold a substantial
majority of the defined benefit assets. 

We intend
to rebalance the plans  investments when they are not within the target
allocation ranges. Additional contributions are invested consistent with the
target ranges and may be used to rebalance the portfolio. The investment
allocations and individual investments are chosen with regard to the duration of
the obligations of each plan. Most of the assets in the retiree health care
benefit plan are invested in a series of Voluntary Employee Benefit Association
(VEBA) trusts. 

Weighted
average asset allocations at December 31, are as follows: 

The U.S.
defined benefit plan at December 31, 2009, held a higher-than-normal amount of
cash in anticipation of future benefit payments associated with the 2009
Voluntary Retirement Program. The majority of this cash will likely be paid out
in 2010, and as these payments are made, the plan s asset allocation will revert
towards its target allocation weights. There are no significant restrictions on
the amount or nature of investments that may be acquired or held by the plans.
None of the plan assets related to the defined benefit pension plans and retiree
health care benefit plan are directly invested in TI common stock. As of
December 31, 2009, we do not expect to return any of the plans  assets to TI in
the next 12 months.  

      Contributions
to the plans meet or exceed all minimum funding requirements. We expect to
contribute to our retirement plans in 2010 as we have in recent
years. 

The
following table shows the benefits we expect to pay to participants from the
plans in the next ten years. Most of the payments will be made from plan assets
and not company assets. 

Assumed
health care cost trend rates for the U.S. retiree health care plan at December
31 are: 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
27 

Increasing
or decreasing health care cost trend rates by one percentage point would have
increased or decreased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for the
U.S. retiree health care plan at December 31, 2009, by $21 million or $19
million and increased or decreased the service cost and interest cost components
of 2009 plan expense by $1 million. 

Deferred compensation
arrangements   

      We have
a deferred compensation plan, which allows U.S. employees whose base
salary and management responsibility exceed a certain level to defer receipt of
a portion of their cash compensation. Payments under this plan are made based on
the participant s distribution election and plan balance. Participants can earn
a return on their deferred compensation based on notional investments in the
same investment funds that are offered in our defined contribution
plans.  

      As of
December 31, 2009, our liability to participants of the deferred compensation
plan was $154 million and is recorded in Deferred credits and other liabilities
on our balance sheet. This amount reflects the accumulated participant deferrals
and earnings thereon as of that date. No assets are held in trust for the
deferred compensation plan and so we remain liable to the participants. To serve
as an economic hedge against changes in market values of this liability, we
invest in similar mutual funds that are recorded in long-term investments. We
record changes in the fair value of the liability and the related investment in
SG A (see Note 7). 

10.
Debt and lines of credit 

In 2007,
we retired $43 million of 8.75% notes at maturity. As of December 31, 2009 and
2008, we had no outstanding debt. We maintain lines of credit to support
commercial paper borrowings, if any, and to provide additional liquidity through
bank loans. As of December 31, 2009, we had a multi-year revolving credit
facility under which a group of banks has committed $1 billion through August
2011, and $920 million thereafter through August 2012. These facilities would
carry a variable rate of interest indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR), if drawn. Our Japan subsidiary also has a revolving credit facility,
expiring in November 2010, for an additional $175 million. At December 31, 2009
and 2008, both revolving credit facilities were undrawn, and no commercial paper
was outstanding.  

      Interest
incurred on loans in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was not material. 

11.
Commitments and contingencies 

Operating leases : We
conduct certain operations in leased facilities and also lease a portion of our
data processing and other equipment. In addition, certain long-term supply
agreements to purchase industrial gases are accounted for as operating leases.
Lease agreements frequently include purchase and renewal provisions and require
us to pay taxes, insurance and maintenance costs. Rental and lease expense
incurred was $114 million, $124 million and $123 million in 2009, 2008 and
2007. 

Capitalized software
licenses : We have licenses for certain internal use electronic design
automation software that we account for as capital leases. The related
liabilities are apportioned between Accounts payable and Deferred credits and
other liabilities on our balance sheets, depending on the contractual timing of
the payment. 

Purchase commitments :
Some of our purchase commitments entered in the ordinary course of business
provide for minimum payments. 

Summary : At December
31, 2009, we had committed to make the following minimum payments under our
non-cancellable operating leases, capitalized software licenses and purchase
commitments: 

Indemnification
guarantees : We routinely sell products with an intellectual property
indemnification included in the terms of sale. Historically, we have had only
minimal, infrequent losses associated with these indemnities. Consequently, we
cannot reasonably estimate or accrue for any future liabilities that may
result. 

Warranty costs/product
liabilities : We accrue for known product-related claims if a loss is
probable and can be reasonably estimated. During the periods presented, there
have been no material accruals or payments regarding product warranty or product
liability. Historically, we have experienced a low rate of payments on product
claims. Although we cannot predict the likelihood or amount of any future
claims, we do not believe they will have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
28 

Consistent
with general industry practice, we enter into formal contracts with certain
customers that include negotiated warranty remedies. Typically, under these
agreements our warranty for semiconductor products includes: three years
coverage; an obligation to repair, replace or refund; and a maximum payment
obligation tied to the price paid for our products. In some cases, product
claims may exceed the price of our products. 

General : We are
subject to various legal and administrative proceedings. Although it is not
possible to predict the outcome of these matters, we believe that the results of
these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or liquidity. 

Discontinued operations
indemnity : In connection with the sale of the former Sensors  
Controls business in 2006, we have agreed to indemnify Sensata for specified
litigation matters and certain liabilities, including environmental liabilities.
Our indemnification obligations with respect to breaches of representations and
warranties and the specified litigation matters are generally subject to a total
deductible of $30 million and our maximum potential exposure is limited to $300
million. We have not made any indemnity payments related to this matter and do
not expect that any potential payments related to this indemnity obligation
would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations or liquidity in future periods. 

12.
Stockholders  equity 

We are
authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. No preferred stock is
currently outstanding.  

      Treasury
shares acquired in connection with the board-authorized stock repurchase program
in 2009, 2008 and 2007 were 45,544,800 shares, 77,162,667 shares and 147,645,809
shares. As of December 31, 2009, $2.6 billion of stock repurchase authorizations
remain and no expiration date has been specified. 

13.
Supplemental financial information 

(a) 

Includes
      lease income of approximately $20 million per year, primarily from the
      purchaser of a former business. As of December 31, 2009, the
      aggregate amount of non-cancellable future lease payments to be received
      from these leases is $80 million. These leases contain renewal options.
      Other also includes miscellaneous non-operational items such as: interest
      income and expense related to non-investment items such as taxes; gains
      and losses from our equity method investments; realized gains and losses
      associated with former equity investments; gains and losses related to
      former businesses; gains and losses from currency exchange rate changes;
      and gains and losses from our derivative financial instruments (primarily
      forward foreign currency exchange
contracts). 

Finished
goods include inventory placed on consignment of $118 million and $74 million as
of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
29 

Authorizations
for property, plant and equipment expenditures in future years were $414 million
at December 31, 2009. 

14.
Segment and geographic area data 

Our
financial reporting structure comprises three reportable segments. These
reportable segments, which are established along major product lines having
unique design and development requirements, are as follows: 

Analog    Analog
semiconductors change real-world signals   such as sound, temperature, pressure
or images   by conditioning them, amplifying them and often converting them to a
stream of digital data that can be processed by other semiconductors, such as
DSPs. Analog semiconductors are also used to manage power distribution and
consumption. Analog includes high-performance analog, high-volume analog
  logic and power management products. 

Embedded Processing    Our
Embedded Processing products include our DSPs (other than DSPs specific to our
Wireless segment) and microcontrollers. DSPs perform mathematical computations
almost instantaneously to process or improve digital data. Microcontrollers are
designed to control a set of specific tasks for electronic equipment. We make
and sell standard, or catalog, Embedded Processing products used in many
different applications and custom Embedded Processing products used in specific
applications, such as communications infrastructure equipment and
automotive. 

Wireless    Cell phones
require a modem or  baseband  to connect to the wireless carrier s network. Many
of today s advanced cell phones, which contain email, media, games and computing
capability, also require an applications processor to run the phone s software
and services, and semiconductors to enable connectivity to Bluetooth  devices,
WiFi networks or GPS location services. We design, make and sell products to
satisfy each of these requirements. Our Wireless portfolio includes both
standard products and custom products. 

We also
have Other, which includes other operating segments that neither meet the
quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments nor are they
aggregated with other operating segments. These operating segments primarily
include our smaller semiconductor product lines such as DLP  products (primarily
used in projectors to create high-definition images); RISC microprocessors
(designed to provide very fast computing and are often implemented in servers);
and, custom semiconductors known as ASICs. Other also includes handheld graphing
and scientific calculators and royalties received for our patented technology
that we license to other electronics companies.  

      Other may
also include certain unallocated income and expenses such as gains and losses on
sales of assets; sales tax refunds; and certain litigation costs, settlements or
reserves. Except for the few unallocated items just mentioned, we allocate all
of our expenses associated with corporate activities to our operating segments
based on specific methodologies, such as percentage of operating expenses or
headcount.  

      With the
exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate assets by operating
segment, nor does the chief operating decision maker evaluate operating segments
using discrete asset information. There was no significant intersegment revenue.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the
summary of significant accounting policies. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
30 

Segment
information  

See Note
2 for restructuring expenses impacting segment results. 

The
following geographic area data includes revenue, based on product shipment
destination and royalty payor location, and property, plant and equipment based
on physical location: 

Geographic area
information  

Major
customer   

      Direct
sales to the Nokia group of companies were 21 percent of our revenue in 2009, 18
percent of our revenue in 2008 and 16 percent of our revenue in 2007; if
indirect sales such as to contract manufacturers are included, Nokia accounted
for 21 percent, 20 percent and 19 percent of our 2009, 2008 and 2007 revenue.
Revenue from sales to Nokia is reflected primarily in our Wireless
segment. 

15.
Subsequent events 

We have
evaluated subsequent events through the issuance of these financial statements,
which occurred on February 23, 2010. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
31 

Report
of independent registered public accounting firm 

The Board
of Directors  

      Texas
Instruments Incorporated 

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Texas Instruments
Incorporated and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income,
stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2009. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits. 

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In our
opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of Texas Instruments
Incorporated and subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. 

We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 23, 2010 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon. 

Dallas,
Texas 

      February
23, 2010 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
32 

Report
by management on internal control over financial reporting 

The
management of TI is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting. TI s internal control system was
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements
issued for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. 

All
internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations
and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

TI
management assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, we used the
criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (the COSO criteria) in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework . Based on our assessment we believe that, as of December 31,
2009, our internal control over financial reporting is effective based on the
COSO criteria. 

TI s
independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst   Young LLP, has issued
an audit report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting, which immediately follows this report. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
33 

Report
of independent registered public accounting firm 

      on
internal control over financial reporting 

The Board
of Directors 

      Texas
Instruments Incorporated 

We have
audited Texas Instruments Incorporated s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Texas Instruments Incorporated s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report By
Management On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit. 

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion. 

A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In our
opinion, Texas Instruments Incorporated maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009,
based on the COSO criteria. 

We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Texas
Instruments Incorporated and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and
the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income,
stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2009 and our report dated February 23, 2010 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon. 

Dallas,
Texas 

      February
23, 2010 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
34 

(a) 

Includes
      a change in depreciation method beginning January 1,
  2006. 

See Notes
to Financial Statements and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
35 

Management s
discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations

The
following should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and the
related Notes that appear elsewhere in this document. All dollar amounts in the
tables in this discussion are stated in millions of U.S. dollars, except
per-share amounts. All amounts in this discussion reference continuing
operations unless otherwise noted. 

Overview 

      We design
and make semiconductors that we sell to electronics designers and manufacturers
all over the world. We began operations in 1930. We are incorporated in
Delaware, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and have design, manufacturing or
sales operations in more than 30 countries. We have four segments: Analog,
Embedded Processing, Wireless and Other. We expect Analog and Embedded
Processing to be our primary growth engines in the years ahead, and we therefore
focus our resources on these segments.  

      We were
the world s fourth largest semiconductor company in 2009 as measured by revenue,
according to preliminary estimates from an external source. Additionally, we
sell calculators and related products. 

Product
information  

      Semiconductors
are electronic components that serve as the building blocks inside modern
electronic systems and equipment. Semiconductors come in two basic forms:
individual transistors and integrated circuits (generally known as  chips ) that
combine multiple transistors on a single piece of material to form a complete
electronic circuit. Our semiconductors are used to accomplish many different
things, such as converting and amplifying signals, interfacing with other
devices, managing and distributing power, processing data, canceling noise and
improving signal resolution. Our portfolio includes products that are integral
to almost all electronic equipment.  

      We sell
custom and standard semiconductor products. Custom products are designed for a
specific customer for a specific application, are sold only to that customer and
are typically sold directly to the customer. The life cycles of custom products
are generally determined by end-equipment upgrade cycles and can be as short as
12 to 24 months. Standard products are designed for use by many customers and/or
many applications and are generally sold through both distribution and direct
channels. They include both proprietary and commodity products. The life cycles
of standard products are generally longer than for custom
products.  

      Additional
information regarding each segment s products follows. 

Analog 

      Analog
semiconductors change real-world signals   such as sound, temperature, pressure
or images   by conditioning them, amplifying them and often converting them to a
stream of digital data that can be processed by other semiconductors, such as
digital signal processors (DSPs). Analog semiconductors are also used to manage
power distribution and consumption. Sales to our Analog segment s nearly 80,000
customers generated about 40 percent of our revenue in 2009. According to
external sources, the worldwide market for analog semiconductors was about $32
billion in 2009. Our Analog segment s revenue in 2009 was $4.3 billion, or about
13 percent of this market, the leading position. We believe that we are
well-positioned to increase our market share over time.  

      Our
Analog product lines are: high-performance analog, high-volume analog  
logic and power management.  

      High-performance
analog products: These include standard analog semiconductors, such as
amplifiers, data converters and interface semiconductors (our portfolio includes
more than 15,000 products), that we market to many different customers who use
them in manufacturing a wide range of products sold in many end markets,
including the industrial, communications, computing and consumer electronics
markets. High-performance analog products generally have long life cycles, often
more than 10 years.  

      High-volume
analog   logic products: High-volume analog includes products for specific
applications, including custom products. The life cycles of our high-volume
analog products are generally shorter than those of our high-performance analog
products. End markets for high-volume analog products include communications,
automotive, computing and many consumer electronics products. Logic and standard
linear includes commodity products marketed to many different customers for many
different applications.  

      Power
management products: These include both standard and custom semiconductors that
help customers manage power in any type of electronic system. We design and
manufacture power management semiconductors for both portable devices
(battery-powered devices, such as handheld consumer electronics, laptop
computers and cordless power tools) and line-powered systems (products that
require an external electrical source, such as computers, digital TVs, wireless
base stations and high-voltage industrial equipment). 

Embedded
Processing 

Our
Embedded Processing products include our DSPs (other than DSPs specific to our
Wireless segment) and microcontrollers. DSPs perform mathematical computations
almost instantaneously to process or improve digital data. Microcontrollers are
designed to control a set of specific tasks for electronic equipment. Sales of
Embedded Processing products generated about 15 percent of our revenue in 2009.
The worldwide market for embedded processors was about $14 billion in 2009.
According to external sources, we have about 11 percent share in this
fragmented market, and we believe we are well-positioned to increase our market
share over time.  

        An
important characteristic of our Embedded Processing products is that our
customers often invest their own research and development (R D) to write
software that operates on our products. This investment tends to increase the
length of our customer relationships because customers prefer to re-use software
from one product generation to the next. We make and sell standard, or catalog,
Embedded Processing products used in many different applications and custom
Embedded Processing products used in specific applications, such as
communications infrastructure equipment and automotive. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
36 

Wireless  

        Cell
phones require a modem or  baseband  to connect to the wireless carrier s
network. Many of today s advanced cell phones, which contain email, media, games
and computing capability, also require an applications processor to run the
phone s software and services, and semiconductors to enable connectivity to
Bluetooth   
devices, WiFi networks or GPS location services. We design, make and sell
products to satisfy each of these requirements. Wireless products are typically
sold in high volumes, and our Wireless portfolio includes both standard products
and custom products. Sales of Wireless products generated about 25 percent of
our revenue in 2009, and a significant portion of our Wireless sales were to a
single customer.  

        Our
Wireless segment has shifted focus from baseband chips, a market with shrinking
competitive barriers and slowing growth rates, to applications processors and
connectivity products, markets we expect will grow faster than the baseband
market. Consistent with this shift in market focus, we are concentrating our
Wireless investments on our OMAP TM
 applications processors and connectivity products and have discontinued
further development of standard baseband products. While we continue to sell
custom baseband products, we have discontinued essentially all custom baseband
investment. We expect substantially all of our baseband revenue, which was $1.73
billion in 2009, to cease by the end of 2012. 

Other  

        Our Other
segment includes revenue from sales from our smaller semiconductor product lines
and of our handheld graphing and scientific calculators, as well as royalties
received for our patented technology that we license to other electronics
companies. The semiconductor products in our Other segment include DLP   
products (primarily used in projectors to create high-definition images),
reduced-instruction set computing (RISC) microprocessors (designed to provide
very fast computing and often implemented in servers) and custom semiconductors
known as application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). This segment
generated about 20 percent of our revenue in 2009. 

Inventory   

        Our
inventory practices differ by product, but we generally maintain inventory
levels that are consistent with our expectations of customer demand. Because of
the longer product life cycles of standard products and their inherently lower
risk of obsolescence, we generally carry more of those products than custom
products. Additionally, we sometimes maintain standard-product inventory in
unfinished wafer form, allowing greater flexibility to meet final package and
test configurations.  

        As a
result of two multi-year trends, in general we expect to carry higher levels of
inventory relative to our revenue expectations (commonly viewed by investors as
days of inventory) than in past years. First, standard products have become a
larger part of our portfolio. Second, we have increased consignment programs for
our largest customers and some distributors and, as a result, we now carry more
inventory on average than in the past in order to service the needs of these
customers. 

Manufacturing   

        Semiconductor
manufacturing begins with a sequence of photo-lithographic and chemical
processing steps that fabricate a number of semiconductor devices on a thin
silicon wafer. Each device on the wafer is tested and the wafer is cut into
pieces called chips. Each chip is assembled into a package that then may be
retested. The entire process typically requires between 12 and 18 weeks and
takes place in highly specialized facilities.  

        We own
and operate semiconductor manufacturing facilities in North America, Asia and
Europe. These include both high-volume wafer fabrication and assembly/test
facilities. Our facilities require substantial investment to construct and are
largely fixed-cost assets once in operation. Because we own much of our
manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating cost is fixed. In
general, these fixed costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or
utilization of capacity, potentially hurting our profit margins. Conversely, as
product demand rises and factory utilization increases, the fixed costs are
spread over increased output, potentially benefiting our profit
margins.  

        The cost
and lifespan of the equipment and processes we use to manufacture semiconductors
varies by product. Our Analog products and most of our Embedded Processing
products can be manufactured using older, less expensive equipment than is
needed for manufacturing advanced logic products, such as our Wireless products.
Advanced logic wafer manufacturing continually requires new and expensive
processes and equipment. In contrast, the processes and equipment required for
manufacturing our Analog products and most of our Embedded Processing products
do not have this requirement.  

        To
supplement our internal wafer fabrication capacity and maximize our
responsiveness to customer demand and return on capital expenditures, our wafer
manufacturing strategy utilizes the capacity of outside suppliers, commonly
known as foundries. Our strategy involves installing internal wafer fabrication
capacity to a level we believe will remain fully utilized over the equipment s
useful lifetime and then outsourcing remaining capacity needs to foundries. In
2009, external foundries provided about 55 percent of the fabricated wafers for
our advanced logic manufacturing needs. We expect the proportion of our advanced
logic wafers provided by foundries will increase over time. We expect to
maintain sufficient internal wafer fabrication capacity to meet the vast
majority of our analog production needs. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
37 

In
addition to using foundries to supplement our wafer fabrication capacity, we
selectively use subcontractors to supplement our assembly/test capacity. We
generally use subcontractors for assembly/test of products that would be less
cost-efficient to complete in-house (e.g., relatively low-volume products that
are unlikely to keep internal equipment fully utilized), or when demand
temporarily exceeds our internal capacity. We believe we often have a cost
advantage in maintaining internal assembly/test capacity.  

        Our
internal/external manufacturing strategy reduces the level of our required
capital expenditures, and thereby reduces our subsequent levels of depreciation
below what it would be if we sourced all manufacturing internally. Consequently,
we experience less fluctuation in our profit margins due to changing product
demand, and lower cash requirements for expanding and updating our manufacturing
capabilities.  

        In 2009,
to expand our existing wafer fabrication capacity, we began installing equipment
in the industry s first 300-millimeter analog wafer factory, located in
Richardson, Texas, and are currently qualifying for production. We also opened a
new assembly/test facility in the Philippines to significantly increase our
assembly/test capacity. 

Product
cycle   

        The
global semiconductor market is characterized by constant, though generally
incremental, advances in product designs and manufacturing processes.
Semiconductor prices and manufacturing costs tend to decline over time as
manufacturing processes and product life cycles mature. Typically, new chips are
produced in limited quantities at first and then ramp to high-volume production
over time. Consequently, new products tend not to have a significant revenue
impact for one or more quarters after their introduction. In the results
discussions below, changes in our shipments are caused by changing demand for
our products unless otherwise noted. 

Market
cycle   

        The
 semiconductor cycle  is an important concept that refers to the ebb and flow of
supply. The semiconductor market historically has been characterized by periods
of tight supply caused by strengthening demand and/or insufficient manufacturing
capacity, followed by periods of surplus inventory caused by weakening demand
and/or excess manufacturing capacity. This cycle is affected by the significant
time and money required to build and maintain semiconductor manufacturing
facilities. 

Seasonality   

        Our
revenue and operating results are subject to some seasonal variation. Our
semiconductor sales generally are seasonally weaker in the first quarter than in
other quarters, particularly for products sold into cell phones and other
consumer electronics devices, which have stronger sales later in the year as
manufacturers prepare for the major holiday selling seasons. Calculator revenue
is tied to the U.S. back-to-school season and is therefore at its highest in the
second and third quarters. Royalty revenue is not always uniform or predictable,
in part due to the performance of our licensees and in part due to the timing of
new license agreements or the expiration and renewal of existing
agreements. 

Tax
considerations   

        We
operate in a number of tax jurisdictions and are subject to several types of
taxes including those that are based on income, capital, property and payroll,
as well as sales and other transactional taxes. The timing of the final
determination of our tax liabilities varies by jurisdiction and taxing
authority. As a result, during any particular reporting period, we might reflect
in our financial statements one or more tax refunds or assessments, or changes
to tax liabilities, involving one or more taxing authorities. 

Results
of operations 

2009 compared with
2008   

        Our 2009
revenue was $10.43 billion, net income was $1.47 billion and earnings per share
(EPS) were $1.15.  

        During
the year, despite a severe global economic downturn, we increased our focus on
our core businesses of Analog and Embedded Processing. In addition, we completed
actions that significantly reduced our costs. Our major actions during the year
included implementing a voluntary retirement program and an involuntary
reduction program, staffing Kilby Labs (a creative research facility in Dallas),
acquiring two companies to support our Analog and Embedded Processing objectives
and opening an assembly/test site located in the Philippines and the world s
first 300-millimeter analog wafer factory, located in Richardson, Texas,
outfitting both with manufacturing equipment purchased in a weak market at
extremely attractive prices. Although the downturn was one of the steepest we
have experienced, we remained profitable. When market demand returned, our
revenue growth surpassed the growth of most of our major competitors, and we
achieved record high operating profit margin in the fourth quarter of
2009. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
38 

Statement of operations  
selected items  

Details of 2009 financial
results   

        Revenue
in 2009 was $10.43 billion, down $2.07 billion, or 17 percent, from 2008.
Revenue for all segments declined compared with the year-ago period. Growth
resumed on a sequential basis in the second quarter of 2009 and on a
year-on-year basis in the fourth quarter.  

        Gross
profit was $5.00 billion, a decrease of $1.25 billion, or 20 percent, from 2008.
This decline was due to lower revenue. About $160 million of the decline in
gross profit resulted from lower factory utilization, with the vast majority of
the underutilization expense incurred in the first half of
2009.  

        Operating
expenses were $1.48 billion for R D and $1.32 billion for SG A. R D
expense decreased $464 million, or 24 percent, from 2008, with the largest
impact in Wireless. SG A expense decreased $294 million, or 18 percent, from
2008. The operating expense decreases in both comparisons were primarily due to
the combination of the effects of our previously-announced employment reductions
and, to a lesser extent, our other cost-control efforts throughout the year. For
2010, we expect R D expense of about $1.5 billion.  

        Charges
for restructuring actions were $212 million compared with $254 million in 2008.
The restructuring charges in 2009 consisted of $201 million for severance and
benefit costs and $11 million related to impairments of long-lived assets. This
compared with restructuring charges in 2008 that consisted of $218 million for
severance and benefit costs and $36 million related to impairments of long-lived
assets. These actions eliminated about 3,900 jobs and were completed in 2009.
See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for additional
information.  

        Operating
profit was $1.99 billion, or 19.1 percent of revenue, compared with $2.44
billion, or 19.5 percent of revenue, in 2008. This was an 18 percent decrease
due to the decline in revenue and the associated lower gross profit. This
decrease more than offset a reduction in operating expenses and lower
restructuring charges. Operating profit decreased from 2008 in all
segments.  

        Other
income (expense) net (OI E) was $26 million, a decrease of $18 million from
2008 due to lower interest income. The decrease in interest income from a year
ago was due to lower interest rates, which more than offset higher average
balances of interest-bearing investments. Additionally, we had expenses
associated with former businesses in 2008 that did not recur in
2009. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
39 

The tax
provision was $547 million, compared with $561 million for the prior year. The
decrease was primarily due to lower income before income taxes, partially offset
by lower discrete tax benefits, and to a lesser extent, a lower federal R D
tax credit. The tax provision for 2009 contained net discrete tax benefits of $7
million. The tax provision for 2008 contained net discrete tax benefits of $122
million, primarily resulting from our decision to indefinitely reinvest the
accumulated earnings of a non-U.S. subsidiary. See Note 5 to the Financial
Statements for a reconciliation of tax rates to the statutory federal tax
rate.  

        Our
annual effective tax rate for 2010 is estimated to be about 31 percent, an
increase from 27 percent in 2009 primarily due to higher income before income
taxes. The estimated tax rate is based on the current tax law in effect and does
not assume reinstatement of the federal R D tax credit, which expired on
December 31, 2009.  

        Income
from continuing operations was $1.47 billion, a decrease of $450 million from
2008. EPS for 2009 was $1.15 per share, compared with $1.44 per share for 2008.
See Note 1 for a discussion of the effect of the adoption of a new accounting
standard on previously reported EPS. EPS in 2009 benefited $0.05 from a lower
number of average shares outstanding as a result of our stock repurchase
program.  

        Orders
were $11.36 billion, which was 4 percent lower than 2008. The decline reflected
lower demand for baseband wireless products. 

Segment
results  

A
detailed discussion of our segment results appears below. When reviewing each
segment s results, bear in mind that restructuring charges negatively impacted
each segment s operating profit as follows: 

Analog  

Analog
revenue declined $587 million, or 12 percent, from 2008 primarily due to lower
shipments of high-volume analog   logic products. Also contributing to the
decline, but to a lesser extent, was high-performance analog, where although
shipments were about flat compared with 2008, revenue fell due to a higher
proportion of shipments of lower-priced products. Revenue from power management
products was about flat.  

        Operating
profit was $753 million, or 17.6 percent of revenue. This was a decrease of $297
million from 2008 due to lower revenue and associated lower gross profit,
partially offset by lower operating expenses. 

Embedded
Processing  

Embedded
Processing revenue declined $160 million, or 10 percent, compared with 2008
primarily due to lower revenue from catalog products. The decline in catalog
revenue was primarily due to a higher proportion of shipments of lower-priced
products. Lower shipments of products for automotive applications contributed to
a lesser extent to the segment s revenue decline.  

        Operating
profit was $194 million, or 13.2 percent of revenue. This was a decrease of $74
million, or 28 percent, compared with 2008 due to lower revenue and associated
lower gross profit, partially offset by lower operating
expenses. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
40 

Wireless 

Wireless
revenue declined $825 million, or 24 percent, from 2008 due to lower shipments
of baseband products, and to a lesser extent, lower shipments of OMAP
applications processors. These decreases more than offset higher shipments of
connectivity products. Baseband revenue for 2009 was $1.73 billion, a decrease
of $813 million, or 32 percent, from 2008.  

        Operating
profit was $332 million, or 13.0 percent of revenue. This was a decrease of $15
million, or 4 percent, from 2008 due to lower revenue and associated lower gross
profit, partially offset by lower operating and restructuring expenses. As noted
above, most of our reductions in R D were in Wireless. 

Other 

Revenue
from Other was $2.13 billion in 2009. This was a decline of $502 million, or 19
percent, from 2008 due to a decrease in shipments across a broad range of
products, especially RISC microprocessors.  

        Operating
profit for 2009 from Other was $712 million, or 33.5 percent of revenue. This
was a decrease of $60 million, or 8 percent, compared with 2008 due to lower
revenue and associated lower gross profit, largely offset by lower operating
expenses. 

Prior
results of operations 

2008 compared with
2007   

        The year
2008 was marked by a dramatic decrease in global demand for semiconductors in
the second half, a decline that accelerated in the fourth quarter. Given this
significant change in the economy, we began to reduce costs and realign our
expenses and inventory so that our financial performance would remain solid even
in a period of prolonged economic weakness. We focused most of the cost
reductions in our non-core product areas and internal support
functions. 

Details of 2008 financial
results   

        Revenue
was $12.50 billion, down $1.33 billion, or 10 percent, from 2007. As the year
progressed and the global economy weakened, the decline in our revenue
accelerated and broadened. In the fourth quarter, all segments experienced
double-digit declines compared with the year-ago quarter.  

        Gross
profit was $6.24 billion, or 50.0 percent of revenue, down 15 percent from $7.37
billion in 2007. This decline was due to lower revenue and, to a lesser extent,
the impact of lower factory utilization resulting from our efforts to reduce
inventory. About $140 million of the decline in gross profit resulted from lower
factory utilization. The gross profit decline affected all segments. Gross
profit in 2007 included a $39 million pre-tax gain on the sale of our broadband
digital subscriber line (DSL) customer-premises equipment product
line.  

        Operating
expenses were $1.94 billion for R D and $1.61 billion for SG A. R D
expense decreased $200 million, or 9 percent, from 2007 due to the combination
of expense reductions in Wireless and, to a lesser extent, the benefit from our
collaborative work with foundries on advanced logic manufacturing technologies.
We previously developed these manufacturing technologies almost exclusively
in-house. SG A expense decreased $66 million, or 4 percent, from 2007 due to
the combination of lower compensation-related expenses and lower expenses for
consumer advertisements for DLP high-definition television
products.  

        Restructuring
charges of $254 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 included $121
million for a portion of the employment actions described above, $109 million
for actions announced in October 2008 to re-focus our Wireless segment and $24
million for asset impairments related to an action announced in 2007 to shut
down an older digital factory in connection with our decision to work with
foundries on advanced logic manufacturing technology. The restructuring costs
recognized consisted of $218 million for severance and benefit costs and $36
million related to impairments of long-lived assets. 2007 restructuring costs
relating to the factory shutdown were $52 million, consisting of severance and
benefit costs of $31 million and acceleration of depreciation on the factory s
assets of $21 million. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
41 

Operating
profit was $2.44 billion, or 19.5 percent of revenue, compared with $3.50
billion, or 25.3 percent of revenue, in 2007. This was a 30 percent decrease due
to the decline in revenue and the associated lower gross profit, the impact of
underutilized manufacturing assets, and higher restructuring charges. These more
than offset a reduction in operating expenses.  

        Other
income (expense) net (OI E) was $44 million, a decrease of $151 million from
2007 primarily due to lower interest income. The decrease in interest income
from a year ago was primarily due to lower interest rates, and to a lesser
extent, lower average interest-bearing investments.  

        The tax
provision was $561 million, compared with $1.05 billion for 2007. The decrease
was primarily due to lower income before income taxes. The tax provision for
2008 contained net discrete tax benefits of $122 million, primarily resulting
from our decision to indefinitely reinvest the accumulated earnings of a
non-U.S. subsidiary. The tax provision for 2007 contained net discrete tax
benefits of $28 million.  

        Income
from continuing operations was $1.92 billion, a decrease of $721 million from
2007. EPS for 2008 was $1.44 per share, compared with $1.82 per share for 2007.
The impact of restructuring costs reduced EPS by $0.12 per share in 2008 and by
$0.02 per share in 2007. EPS in 2008 benefited $0.12 from a lower number of
average shares outstanding as a result of our stock repurchase
program.  

        Orders
were $11.86 billion, which was 13 percent lower than 2007. In the fourth quarter
of 2008, orders were $1.86 billion, which was 42 percent lower than in the third
quarter of 2008. The declines in both periods reflected lower demand over a
broad range of our products. 

Segment
results  

A
detailed discussion of our segment results appears below. When reviewing each
segment s results, bear in mind that restructuring charges negatively impacted
each segment s operating profit as follows: 

Analog 

Analog
revenue was about even with 2007 as growth in shipments of high-performance
analog products was more than offset by a decline in shipments of high-volume
analog   logic products.  

        Operating
profit was $1.05 billion, or 21.6 percent of revenue. This was a decrease of
$498 million from 2007 due to lower gross profit, and to a lesser extent, higher
operating expenses. Higher operating expenses were primarily due to continued
investment in R D and SG A, reflecting the strategic importance of this
segment to our future growth. 

Embedded
Processing 

Embedded
Processing revenue grew 3 percent compared with 2007 due to increased shipments
during the earlier part of 2008, although revenue declined during the fourth
quarter. The increase in revenue from 2007 was due to increased shipments of
products for communications infrastructure applications, and to a lesser extent,
catalog products. These increases more than offset lower revenue from a decline
in shipments of products for automotive applications.  

        Operating
profit was $268 million, or 16.5 percent of revenue. This was a decrease of $22
million compared with 2007 due to higher restructuring
charges.  

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
42 

Wireless 

Wireless
revenue declined $812 million, or 19 percent, from 2007 primarily due to lower
shipments of baseband products, and to a lesser extent, lower shipments of OMAP
application processors. As announced in December 2006, LM Ericsson Telephone
Company added a second supplier of 3G basebands for handset applications, which
began to affect our results in the fourth quarter of 2007 and continued to do so
in 2008.  

        Operating
profit was $347 million, or 10.3 percent of revenue. This was a decrease of $416
million from 2007 due to lower gross profit, and to a lesser extent, higher
restructuring costs. These decreases were partially offset by lower operating
expenses. 

Other  

Revenue
from Other was $2.63 billion in 2008. This was a decline of $495 million, or 16
percent, from 2007 due to, in decreasing order, a decrease in shipments across a
broad range of products, the effect of the sale of our DSL customer-premises
equipment product line in 2007 and lower royalties.  

        Operating
profit for 2008 from Other was $772 million, or 29.3 percent of revenue. This
was a decrease of $124 million compared with 2007 due to lower
revenue. 

Financial
condition  

        At the
end of 2009, total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments)
was $2.92 billion, an increase of $385 million from the end of
2008.  

        Accounts
receivable were $1.28 billion at the end of 2009. This was an increase of $364
million compared with the end of 2008. Days sales outstanding were 38 at the end
of 2009, compared with 33 at the end of 2008. The increase in accounts
receivable was the result of higher revenue experienced throughout the fourth
quarter of 2009, compared with a sharp decline in revenue in the fourth quarter
of 2008, particularly in December.  

        Inventory
was $1.20 billion at the end of 2009, $173 million lower than a year ago, and
days of inventory at the end of 2009 were 76, compared with 89 at the end of
2008. The higher days of inventory at the end of 2008 reflected sharply
declining demand due to the global economic downturn. 

Liquidity
and capital resources  

        Our
sources of liquidity are cash flow from operations, cash and cash equivalents,
short-term investments and revolving credit facilities.  

        Our
primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Cash flow from
operations for 2009 was $2.64 billion, a decrease of $687 million from the prior
year due to changes in accounts receivable.  

        We have
$1.18 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $1.74 billion of short-term
investments as of December 31, 2009. We have a multi-year $1 billion revolving
credit facility, and we have a non-U.S. revolving credit facility of $175
million that expires in November 2010. See Note 10 to the Financial
Statements for additional information. As of December 31, 2009, these facilities
were not being utilized.  

        In 2009,
investing activities used $1.10 billion in cash, primarily for capital
expenditures, and to a lesser extent, acquisitions. For 2009, capital
expenditures were $753 million, about even with 2008. We used $155 million for
acquisitions in 2009.  

        For 2009,
net cash used in financing activities was $1.41 billion, compared with $2.43
billion in 2008. We used $954 million to repurchase 45 million shares of our
common stock in 2009, compared with $2.12 billion used to repurchase 80 million
shares of our common stock in 2008. Dividends paid in 2009 of $567 million,
compared with $537 million in 2008, reflect the effect of increases in the
quarterly dividend rate, partially offset by the lower number of shares
outstanding. Employee exercises of TI stock options are also reflected in cash
from financing activities. In 2009, these exercises provided cash proceeds of
$109 million, compared with $210 million in 2008.  

        Cumulatively,
our board of directors has authorized $20.0 billion in stock repurchases since
September 2004. At year-end 2009, $2.6 billion of these authorizations
remain. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
43 

We
believe we have the necessary financial resources and operating plans to fund
our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other
business requirements for at least the next 12 months. 

Long-term
contractual obligations 

(a) 

Includes
      minimum payments for leased facilities and equipment, as well as purchases
      of industrial gases under contracts accounted for as operating
      leases. 

(b) 

Includes
      payments under license agreements for electronic design automation
      software. 

(c) 

Includes
      contractual arrangements with suppliers where there is a fixed
      non-cancellable payment schedule or minimum payments due with a reduced
      delivery schedule. Excluded from the table are cancellable arrangements.
      However, depending on when certain purchase arrangements may be cancelled,
      an additional $3 million of cancellation penalties may be required to be
      paid, which are not reflected in the
table. 

(d) 

Includes
      the minimum contributions expected to be made during 2010. Funding
      projections beyond 2010 are not practical to estimate due to the rules
      affecting tax-deductible contributions and the impact from the plans 
      asset performance, interest rates and potential U.S. and international
      legislation. 

(e) 

Includes
      an estimate of payments under this plan for the liability that existed at
      December 31, 2009. 

(f) 

Excluded
      from the table above are $56 million of uncertain tax liabilities. These
      amounts have been excluded because of the difficulty in making reasonably
      reliable estimates of the timing of cash settlements with the respective
      taxing authorities. 

Critical
accounting policies  

        In
preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States, we use statistical analyses,
estimates and projections that affect the reported amounts and related
disclosures and may vary from actual results. We consider the following
accounting policies to be both those that are most important to the portrayal of
our financial condition and that require the most subjective judgment. If actual
results differ significantly from management s estimates and projections, there
could be a significant effect on our financial statements. 

Revenue
recognition   

        Revenue
from sales of our products is recognized upon shipment or delivery, depending
upon the terms of the sales order, provided that persuasive evidence of a sales
arrangement exists, title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer, the
sales amount is fixed or determinable and collection of the revenue is
reasonably assured. A portion of our sales is to distributors. We recognize
revenue from sales of our products to distributors upon delivery of product to
the distributors consistent with the above principles.  

        We reduce
revenue based on estimates of future credits to be granted to customers. Credits
include volume-based incentives, other special pricing arrangements and product
returns due to quality issues. We also grant discounts to some distributors for
prompt payments. Our estimates of future credits are based on historical
experience, analysis of product shipments and contractual arrangements with
customers and distributors.  

        Distributor
revenue is recognized net of allowances, which are management s estimates based
on analysis of historical data, current economic conditions and contractual
terms. These allowances recognize the impact of credits granted to distributors
under certain programs common in the semiconductor industry whereby distributors
receive certain price adjustments to meet individual competitive opportunities,
or are allowed to return or scrap a limited amount of product in accordance with
contractual terms agreed upon with the distributor, or receive price protection
credits when our standard published prices are lowered from the price the
distributor paid for product still in its inventory. Historical claims data are
maintained for each of the programs, with differences among geographic regions
taken into consideration. We continually monitor the actual claimed allowances
against our estimates, and we adjust our estimates as appropriate to reflect
trends in distributor revenue and inventory levels. Allowances are also adjusted
when recent historical data do not represent anticipated future
activity. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
44 

In
addition, we monitor collectibility of accounts receivable primarily through
review of the accounts receivable aging. When collection is at risk, we assess
the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, will record a
charge in the period such determination is made. 

Income
taxes   

        In
determining net income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain
estimates and judgments in the calculation of tax provisions and the resultant
tax liabilities, and in the recoverability of deferred tax assets that arise
from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition
of revenue and expense.  

        In the
ordinary course of global business, there may be many transactions and
calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. The calculation of tax
liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex
tax laws. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in
the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on an estimate of the ultimate
resolution of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due.
Although we believe the estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that
the final outcome of these matters will not be different than what is reflected
in the historical income tax provisions and accruals.  

        As part
of our financial process, we must assess the likelihood that our deferred tax
assets can be recovered. If recovery is not likely, the provision for taxes must
be increased by recording a reserve in the form of a valuation allowance for the
deferred tax assets that are estimated not to be ultimately recoverable. In this
process, certain relevant criteria are evaluated including the existence of
deferred tax liabilities that can be used to absorb deferred tax assets, the
taxable income in prior years that can be used to absorb net operating losses
and credit carrybacks, and taxable income in future years. Our judgment
regarding future taxable income may change due to market conditions, changes in
U.S. or international tax laws and other factors. These changes, if any, may
require material adjustments to the deferred tax assets and an accompanying
reduction or increase in net income in the period when such determinations are
made.  

        In
addition to the factors described above, the effective tax rate reflected in
forward-looking statements is based on then-current tax law. Significant changes
during the year in enacted tax law could affect these estimates. 

Inventory valuation
allowances   

        Inventory
is valued net of allowances for unsalable or obsolete raw materials,
work-in-process and finished goods. Allowances are determined quarterly by
comparing inventory levels of individual materials and parts to historical usage
rates, current backlog and estimated future sales and by analyzing the age of
inventory, in order to identify specific components of inventory that are judged
unlikely to be sold. Allowances are also calculated quarterly for instances
where inventoried costs for individual products are in excess of market prices
for those products. In addition to this specific identification process,
statistical allowances are calculated for remaining inventory based on
historical write-offs of inventory for salability and obsolescence reasons.
Actual future write-offs of inventory for salability and obsolescence reasons
may differ from estimates and calculations used to determine valuation
allowances due to changes in customer demand, customer negotiations, technology
shifts and other factors. 

Impairment of long-lived
assets, intangibles and goodwill   

        We review
long-lived assets for impairment when certain indicators suggest the carrying
amount may not be recoverable. This review process primarily focuses on
acquisition-related intangible assets; property, plant and equipment; and
software for internal use or embedded in products sold to customers. Factors
considered include the under-performance of an asset compared with expectations
and shortened useful lives due to planned changes in the use of the assets.
Recoverability is determined by comparing the carrying amount of long-lived
assets to estimated future undiscounted cash flows. If future undiscounted cash
flows are less than the carrying amount of the long-lived assets, an impairment
charge would be recognized for the excess of the carrying amount over fair value
determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by
utilizing a discounted cash-flow technique. Additionally, in the case of assets
that will continue to be used in future periods, a shortened depreciable life
may be utilized if appropriate, resulting in accelerated amortization or
depreciation based upon the expected net realizable value of the asset at the
date the asset will no longer be utilized. Actual results may vary from
estimates due to, among other things, differences in operating results, shorter
useful lives of assets and lower market values for excess assets. Additionally,
we review goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if certain
impairment indicators arise such as significant changes in business climate,
operating performance or competition, or upon the disposition of a significant
portion of a reporting unit. This review compares the fair value for each
reporting unit containing goodwill to its carrying value. 

Valuation of auction-rate
securities   

        The fair
value of our auction-rate securities is estimated using a discounted cash flow
(DCF) model that requires inputs that are supported by little or no market
activity and reflect significant management judgment. Assumptions used in
preparing the DCF model include estimates for the amount and timing of future
interest and principal payments and the rate of return required by investors to
own these securities in the current environment. In making these assumptions, we
consider relevant factors including: the formula 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
45 

for each
security that defines the interest rate paid to investors in the event of a
failed auction; forward projections of the interest rate benchmarks specified in
such formulas; the likely timing of principal repayments; the probability of
full repayment considering the guarantees by the U.S. Department of Education of
the underlying student loans, guarantees by other third parties, and additional
credit enhancements provided through other means; and, publicly available
pricing data for recently traded student loan asset-backed securities that are
not subject to auctions. Our estimate of the rate of return required by
investors to own these securities also considers the current reduced liquidity
for auction-rate securities. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for details
of fair-value measurements. 

Changes
in accounting standards  

        See
Changes in Accounting Standards in Note 1 to the Financial Statements for a
discussion of new accounting and reporting standards that have not yet been
adopted. 

Off-balance
sheet arrangements  

        As of
December 31, 2009, we had no significant off-balance sheet arrangements as
defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. 

Commitments
and contingencies  

        See Note
11 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our commitments and
contingencies. 

Quantitative
and qualitative disclosures about market risk 

Foreign exchange
risk   

        The U.S.
dollar is the functional currency for financial reporting. We use forward
currency exchange contracts to reduce the earnings impact exchange rate
fluctuations may have on our non-U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures. For
example, at year-end 2009, we had forward currency exchange contracts
outstanding with a notional value of $465 million to hedge net balance sheet
exposures (including $220 million to sell Japanese yen, $37 million to sell
euros and $49 million to buy Taiwan dollars). Similar hedging activities existed
at year-end 2008.  

        Because
most of the aggregate non-U.S. dollar balance sheet exposure is hedged by these
forward currency exchange contracts, based on year-end 2009 balances and
currency exchange rates, a hypothetical 10 percent plus or minus fluctuation in
non-U.S. currency exchange rates would result in a pre-tax currency exchange
gain or loss of approximately $2 million. 

Interest rate
risk   

        As of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had no debt. Therefore, our primary exposure to
changes in interest rates is limited to the effects on the fair values of our
investments in cash equivalents and short-term investments. The effect of
changes in interest rates on the fair value of our cash equivalents and
short-term investments has not been material during 2009 or 2008 due to the
primarily short-term duration of our investments. A hypothetical increase or
decrease of 100 basis points in the applicable interest rates associated with
these investments as of year-end 2009 would have resulted in a decrease of
approximately $10 million and an increase of approximately $5 million in the
fair value of these securities, respectively (in the instance of falling rates,
the hypothetical change in value assumes that no interest rate on any individual
security could drop below zero). Because the coupon rates applicable to our
auction-rate securities reset every 7, 28 or 35 days to maximum rates indexed to
short-term interest rate benchmarks defined for each security, a change in the
general level of interest rates is not expected to cause a significant change in
the fair value of our long-term investments in those securities. While an
increase in interest rates reduces the fair value of the investment portfolio,
we will not recognize the losses in other income (expense) net unless the
individual securities are sold prior to recovery or the impairment is determined
to be other-than-temporary. 

Equity
risk   

        Long-term
investments at year-end 2009 include the following: 

Investments
      in mutual funds   includes mutual funds that were selected to generate
      returns that offset changes in certain liabilities related to deferred
      compensation arrangements. The mutual funds hold a variety of debt and
      equity investments. 

Investments
      in venture capital funds   includes investments in limited partnerships
      (accounted for under either the equity or cost
  method). 

Equity
      investments   includes non-marketable (non-publicly traded) equity
      securities. 

Investments
in mutual funds are stated at fair value. Changes in prices of the mutual fund
investments are expected to offset related changes in deferred compensation
liabilities such that a 10 percent increase or decrease in the investments  fair
values would not materially affect operating results. Non-marketable equity
securities and some venture capital funds are stated at cost. Impairments deemed
to be other-than-temporary are expensed in net income. Investments in the
remaining venture capital funds are stated using the equity method. See Note 7
to the Financial Statements for details of equity and other long-term
investments. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
46 

Included
in the results above were the following items: 

(a) 

See
      Note 2 to the Financial Statements for additional
    information. 

(b) 

The
      U.S. federal research tax credit was reinstated in October 2008 and was
      retroactive to the beginning of
2008. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009
ANNUAL REPORT  n  PAGE
47 

Common
stock prices and dividends 

TI common
stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and traded principally in that
market. The table below shows the high and low closing prices of TI common stock
as reported by Bloomberg L.P. and the dividends paid per common share for each
quarter during the past two years. 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 7
 ex21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

ex21.htm 

Exhibit
21  

TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES 

        LIST OF
SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT 

The
following are current subsidiaries of the Registrant. 

Subsidiary and Name Under
      Which Business is Done  

Where
      Organized  

Benchmarq
      Microelectronics Corporation of South Korea 

Delaware 

Burr-Brown
      Europe Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Burr-Brown
      International Holding Corporation 

Delaware 

Butterfly
      Communications Inc. 

Delaware 

Integrated
      Circuit Designs, Inc. 

Maryland 

Luminary
      Micro Asia Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Luminary
      Micro Europe Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Luminary
      Micro India Private Limited 

India 

Telogy
      Networks, Inc. 

Delaware 

Texas
      Instruments Asia Limited 

Delaware 

Texas
      Instruments Austin Incorporated 

Delaware 

Texas
      Instruments Australia Pty Limited 

Australia 

Texas
      Instruments Belgium S.A. 

Belgium 

Texas
      Instruments Berlin GmbH 

Germany 

Texas
      Instruments Business Expansion GmbH 

Germany 

Texas
      Instruments Canada Limited 

Canada 

Texas
      Instruments China Incorporated 

Delaware 

Texas
      Instruments China Trading Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Texas
      Instruments (Cork) Limited 

Ireland 

Texas
      Instruments CZ, s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Texas
      Instruments de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Texas
      Instruments Denmark A/S 

Denmark 

Texas
      Instruments Deutschland GmbH 

Germany 

Texas
      Instruments Espana, S.A. 

Spain 

Texas
      Instruments Foreign Sales Corporation 

Barbados 

Texas
      Instruments France S.A. 

France 

Texas
      Instruments Gesellschaft m.b.H. 

Austria 

Texas
      Instruments Holland B.V. 

Netherlands 

Texas
      Instruments Hong Kong Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Texas
      Instruments (India) Private Limited 

India 

Texas
      Instruments International Capital Corporation 

Delaware 

Texas
      Instruments International Holding Company S.  R.L. 

Luxembourg 

Texas
      Instruments International Management Company S.  R.L. 

Luxembourg 

Texas
      Instruments International (Overseas) Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Texas
      Instruments International Trade Corporation 

Delaware 

Texas
      Instruments International (U.S.A.) Inc. 

Delaware 

Texas
      Instruments (Ireland) Limited 

Ireland 

Texas
      Instruments Israel Ltd. 

Israel 

Texas
      Instruments Israel Medical (2009) Ltd. 

Israel 

Texas
      Instruments Israel Trading (2003) Ltd. 

Israel 

Texas
      Instruments Japan Limited 

Japan 

Texas
      Instruments Korea Limited 

Korea 

Texas
      Instruments Lehigh Valley Incorporated 

Delaware 

Texas
      Instruments Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Texas
      Instruments Low Power Wireless San Diego LLC 

Delaware 

Texas
      Instruments Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. 

Malaysia 

Texas
      Instruments Marketing   Finance GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

Texas
      Instruments Melbourne Incorporated 

Florida 

Texas
      Instruments Northern Virginia Incorporated 

Delaware 

Texas
      Instruments Norway AS 

Norway 

Texas
      Instruments Oy 

Finland 

Texas
      Instruments Palo Alto Incorporated 

California 

Texas
      Instruments (Philippines) LLC 

Delaware 

Texas
      Instruments Richardson LLC 

Delaware 

Texas
      Instruments Santa Rosa Incorporated 

California 

Texas
      Instruments Semiconductor Technologies (Shanghai) Co.,
Ltd. 

China 

Texas
      Instruments Semiconductores e Tecnologias Ltda. 

Brazil 

Texas
      Instruments (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Texas
      Instruments Singapore (Pte) Limited 

Singapore 

Texas
      Instruments Sunnyvale Incorporated 

Delaware 

Texas
      Instruments Taiwan Limited 

Taiwan 

Texas
      Instruments Trade   Investment Company S.A. 

Panama 

Texas
      Instruments Tucson Corporation 

Delaware 

TI
      Europe Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

TI
      (Philippines), Inc. 

Philippines 

Unitrode
      Corporation 

Maryland 

Unitrode-Maine 

Maine 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 ex23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

ex23.htm 

Exhibit
23  

CONSENT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Texas Instruments Incorporated of our reports dated February 23, 2010, with
respect to the consolidated financial statements of Texas Instruments
Incorporated and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
of Texas Instruments Incorporated, included in the 2009 Annual Report to
Stockholders of Texas Instruments Incorporated. 

We also
consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration
statements, and in the related prospectuses thereto, of our reports dated
February 23, 2010, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of
Texas Instruments Incorporated, and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting of Texas Instruments Incorporated, incorporated by reference
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009:
Registration Statements (Forms S-8) No. 33-42172, No. 33-54615, No. 33-61154,
No. 333-07127 (as amended), No. 333-41913, No. 333-41919, No. 333-31321 (as
amended), No. 333-31323, No. 333-48389, No. 333-44662, No. 333-107759, No.
333-107760, No. 333-107761, and No. 333-127021; Registration Statement (Forms
S-3) No. 333-141048; and Registration Statements (Forms S-4) No. 333-89433 (as
amended), No. 333-87199, No. 333-80157 (as amended), and No. 333-41030 (as
amended). 

/S/
      ERNST   YOUNG LLP 

ERNST
        YOUNG LLP 

Dallas,
Texas 

        February
23, 2010 

</EX-23>

<EX-31.A>
 9
 ex31_a.htm
 EXHIBIT 31(A)

ex31_a.htm 

Exhibit
31(a)  

CERTIFICATIONS 

I,
Richard K. Templeton, certify that: 

1. 

I
      have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Texas Instruments
      Incorporated; 

2. 

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3. 

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4. 

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and
  have: 

(a)
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)
Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c)
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d)
Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report)
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

(a) All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

(b) Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
February 23, 2010 

/s/
       Richard
      K. Templeton  

Richard
      K. Templeton 

Chairman,
      President and 

Chief
      Executive Officer 

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 10
 ex31_b.htm
 EXHIBIT 31(B)

ex31_b.htm 

Exhibit
31(b)  

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Kevin
P. March, certify that: 

1. 

I
      have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Texas Instruments
      Incorporated; 

2. 

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3. 

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4. 

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
  have: 

(a)
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)
Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c)
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d)
Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report)
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

(a) All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

(b) Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
February 23, 2010 

/s/
      Kevin P. March 

Kevin
      P. March 

Senior
      Vice President and 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 11
 ex32_a.htm
 EXHIBIT 32(A)

ex32_a.htm 

Exhibit
32(a)  

Certification
of Periodic Report 

        Pursuant
to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350 

For
purposes of 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, Richard K. Templeton,
President and Chief Executive Officer of Texas Instruments Incorporated (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge: 

(i) the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2009,
as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
 Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(ii) the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Dated:
February 23, 2010 

/s/
       Richard
      K. Templeton  

Richard
      K. Templeton 

Chairman,
      President and 

Chief
      Executive Officer 

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 12
 ex32_b.htm
 EXHIBIT 32(B)

ex32_b.htm 

Exhibit
32(b)  

Certification
of Periodic Report 

        Pursuant
to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350 

For
purposes of 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, Kevin P. March, Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Texas Instruments Incorporated
(the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge: 

(i) the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2009,
as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
 Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(ii) the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Dated:
February 23, 2010 

/s/   Kevin P.
      March  

Kevin
      P. March 

Senior
      Vice President and 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

</EX-32.B>

<EX-101.INS>
 13
 txn-20091231.xml
 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 14
 txn-20091231.xsd
 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 15
 txn-20091231_cal.xml
 CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 16
 txn-20091231_def.xml
 DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 17
 txn-20091231_lab.xml
 LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 18
 txn-20091231_pre.xml
 PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

