<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20180807_10-K_edgar_data_80424_0000080424-18-000055_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>19616337</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>507995</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2255884</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4772222</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5121141</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>6756519</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>45</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000080424-18-000055.hdr.sgml : 20180807
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20180807161922
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000080424-18-000055
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		136
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20180630
FILED AS OF DATE:		20180807
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20180807

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PROCTER & GAMBLE Co
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000080424
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SOAP, DETERGENT, CLEANING PREPARATIONS, PERFUMES, COSMETICS [2840]
		IRS NUMBER:				310411980
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			OH
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00434
		FILM NUMBER:		18998362

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE PROCTER & GAMBLE PLAZA
		CITY:			CINCINNATI
		STATE:			OH
		ZIP:			45202
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5139831100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE PROCTER & GAMBLE PLAZA
		CITY:			CINCINNATI
		STATE:			OH
		ZIP:			45202

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PROCTER & GAMBLE CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000080424-18-000055.txt : 20180807

10-K
 1
 fy171810-kreport.htm
 FY1718 10-K

<EX-10.1>
 2
 fy171810-kexhibit10x1.htm
 THE P&G 2001 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (10-1) 
    
  The Procter   Gamble Stock   Incentive Plan  
  (as amended on August 14, 2007) 

The Procter   Gamble Company 
  Executive Offices 
  1 Procter   Gamble Plaza, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202-3315 

August 14, 2007 

To:    Participants in The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan 

This document provides a copy of The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan followed by important Additional Information. Please save this with your stock option materials. 
    
  Very truly yours, 

James J. Johnson 
  Secretary 

This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933. 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2001 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 
  (as adjusted for stock split on May 21, 2004 and amended on August 14, 2007) 

ARTICLE A -- Purpose. 
    
  The purposes of The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") are to strengthen the alignment of interests between those employees of The Procter   Gamble Company (the "Company") and its subsidiaries who are largely responsible for the success of the business (the  Participants ) and the Company's shareholders through ownership behavior and the increased ownership of shares of the Company's common stock (the  Common Stock ), and to encourage the Participants to remain in the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries. This will be accomplished through the granting of options to purchase shares of Common Stock, the granting of performance related awards, the payment of a portion of the Participants' remuneration in shares of Common Stock, the granting of deferred awards related to the increase in the price of Common Stock, and the granting of restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or other awards that are related to the price of Common Stock. 
    
  ARTICLE B -- Administration. 
    
  1.    The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), or such other committee as may be designated by the Board. The Committee shall consist of not fewer than three (3) members of the Board who are "Non-Employee Directors" as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), or any successor rule or definition adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, to be appointed by the Board from time to time and to serve at the discretion of the Board. The Committee may establish such regulations, provisions, and procedures within the terms of the Plan as, in its opinion, may be advisable for the administration and operation of the Plan, and may designate the Secretary of the Company or other employees of the Company to assist the Committee in the administration and operation of the Plan and may grant authority to such persons to execute documents on behalf of the Committee. The Committee shall report to the Board on the administration of the Plan not less than once each year. 
    
  2.    Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have authority: to grant nonstatutory and incentive stock options; to grant stock appreciation rights either freestanding or in tandem with simultaneously granted stock options; to grant Performance Awards (as defined in Article J); to award a portion of a Participant's remuneration in shares of Common Stock subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine; to award RSUs or other awards that are related to the price of Common Stock; to determine all the terms and provisions of the respective stock option, stock appreciation right, stock award, RSU, or other award agreements including setting the dates when each stock option or stock appreciation right or part thereof may be exercised and determining the conditions and restrictions, if any, of any shares of Common Stock acquired through the exercise of any stock option; to provide for special terms for any stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards, RSUs or other awards granted to Participants who are foreign nationals or who are employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries outside of the United States of America in order to fairly accommodate for differences in local law, tax policy or custom and to approve such supplements to or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of the Plan as the Committee may consider necessary or appropriate for such purposes (without affecting the terms of the Plan for any other purpose); and to make all other determinations it deems necessary or advisable for administering the Plan. In addition, at the time of grant the Committee shall have the further authority to: 
    
  (a)    waive the provisions of Article F, Paragraph 1(a); 
    
  (b)    waive the provisions of Article F, Paragraph 1(b); 
    
  (c)    waive the provisions of Article G, Paragraph 4(a), 4(b) and 4(c); and 
    
  (d)    impose conditions in lieu of those set forth in Article G, Paragraphs 4 through 7, for nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards, RSUs, or Performance Awards which do not increase or extend the rights of the Participant. 
    
  ARTICLE C -- Participation. 
    
  The Committee shall select as Participants those employees of the Company and its subsidiaries who, in the opinion of the Committee, have demonstrated a capacity for contributing in a substantial manner to the success of such companies. 

ARTICLE D -- Limitation on Number of Shares Available Under the Plan. 
    
  1.    Unless otherwise authorized by the shareholders and subject to Paragraph 2 of this Article D, the maximum aggregate number of shares available for award under the Plan shall be one hundred ninety million (190,000,000) shares. Any of the authorized shares may be used for any of the types of awards described in the Plan, except that no more than fifteen percent (15%) of the authorized shares may be awarded as restricted or unrestricted stock. 
    
  2.    In addition to the shares authorized for award by Paragraph 1 of this Article, the following shares may be awarded under the Plan: 
    
  (a)    shares that were authorized to be awarded under The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (the  1992 Plan ), but that were not awarded under the 1992 Plan; 
    
  (b)    shares awarded under the Plan or the 1992 Plan that are subsequently forfeited in accordance with the Plan or the 1992 Plan, respectively; 
    
  (c)    shares tendered by a Participant in payment of all or part of the exercise price of a stock option awarded under the Plan or the 1992 Plan; 
    
  (d)    shares tendered by or withheld from a Participant in satisfaction of withholding tax obligations with respect to a stock option awarded under the Plan or the 1992 Plan. 
    
  ARTICLE E -- Shares Subject to Use Under the Plan. 
    
  1.    The shares to be delivered by the Company upon exercise of stock options or stock appreciation rights shall be determined by the Board and may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares. In the case of redemption of stock appreciation rights by one of the Company's subsidiaries, such shares shall be shares acquired by that subsidiary. 
    
  2.    For purposes of the Plan, restricted or unrestricted stock awarded or issued following redemption of RSUs under the terms of the Plan shall be authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares, or shares acquired in the open market by the Company or a subsidiary, as determined by the Board. 
    
  ARTICLE F -- Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. 
    
  1.    In addition to such other conditions as may be established by the Committee, in consideration of the granting of stock options or stock appreciation rights under the terms of the Plan, each Participant agrees as follows: 
    
  (a)    The right to exercise any stock option or stock appreciation right shall be conditional upon certification by the Participant at time of exercise that the Participant intends to remain in the employ of the Company or one of its subsidiaries for at least one (1) year following the date of the exercise of the stock option or stock appreciation right (provided that termination of employment due to Retirement or Special Separation shall not constitute a breach of such certification), and, 
    
  (b)    In order to better protect the goodwill of the Company and its subsidiaries and to prevent the disclosure of the Company's or its subsidiaries' trade secrets and confidential information and thereby help insure the long-term success of the business, the Participant, without prior written consent of the Company, will not engage in any activity or provide any services, whether as a director, manager, supervisor, employee, adviser, consultant or otherwise, for a period of three (3) years following the date of the Participant's termination of employment with the Company, in connection with the manufacture, development, advertising, promotion, or sale of any product which is the same as or similar to or competitive with any products of the Company or its subsidiaries (including both existing products as well as products known to the Participant, as a consequence of the Participant's employment with the Company or one of its subsidiaries, to be in development): 
    
           (1) 
    with respect to which the Participant's work has been directly concerned at any time during the two (2) years preceding termination of employment with the Company or one of its subsidiaries or 
       
           (2) 
    with respect to which during that period of time the Participant, as a consequence of the Participant's job performance and duties, acquired knowledge of trade secrets or other confidential information of the Company or its subsidiaries. 

For purposes of this paragraph, it shall be conclusively presumed that Participants have knowledge of information they were directly exposed to through actual receipt or review of memos or documents containing such information, or through actual attendance at meetings at which such information was discussed or disclosed. 
    
  (c)    The provisions of this Article are not in lieu of, but are in addition to the continuing obligation of the Participant (which Participant hereby acknowledges) to not use or disclose the Company's or its subsidiaries' trade secrets and confidential information known to the Participant until any particular trade secret or confidential information become generally known (through no fault of the Participant), whereupon the restriction on use and disclosure shall cease as to that item. Information regarding products in development, in test marketing or being marketed or promoted in a discrete geographic region, which information the Company or one of its subsidiaries is considering for broader use, shall not be deemed generally known until such broader use is actually commercially implemented. As used in this Article, "generally known" means known throughout the domestic U. S. industry or, in the case of Participants who have job responsibilities outside of the United States, the appropriate foreign country or countries' industry. As used in this Article, "trade secrets and other confidential information" also includes personnel knowledge about a manager, or managers, of the Company or its subsidiaries gained in the course of Participant's employment with the Company or its subsidiaries (including personnel ratings or rankings, manager or peer evaluations, performance records, special skills or abilities, compensation, work and development plans, training, nature of specific project and work assignments, or specialties developed as a result of such assignments) which directly or indirectly affords the Participant a confidential basis to solicit, encourage, or participate in soliciting any manager, or managers, of the Company or any subsidiary to terminate his or her relationship with the Company or that subsidiary. 
    
  (d)    By acceptance of any offered stock option or stock appreciation rights granted under the terms of the Plan, the Participant acknowledges that if the Participant were, without authority, to use or disclose the Company's or any of its subsidiaries' trade secrets or confidential information or threaten to do so, the Company or one of its subsidiaries would be entitled to injunctive and other appropriate relief to prevent the Participant from doing so. The Participant acknowledges that the harm caused to the Company by the breach or anticipated breach of this Article is by its nature irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of proof as to the monetary harm that would ensue. The Participant consents that any interim or final equitable relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction shall, at the request of the Company or one of its subsidiaries, be entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over the Participant, without prejudice to any rights either party may have to appeal from the proceedings which resulted in any grant of such relief. 
    
  (e)    If any of the provisions contained in this Article F shall for any reason, whether by application of existing law or law which may develop after the Participant's acceptance of an offer of the granting of stock appreciation rights or stock options, be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be overly broad as to scope of activity, duration, or territory, the Participant agrees to join the Company or any of its subsidiaries in requesting such court to construe such provision by limiting or reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent compatible with then applicable law. If any one or more of the terms, provisions, covenants, or restrictions of this Article shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, then the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants, and restrictions of this Article shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired, or invalidated. 
    
  2.    The fact that a Participant has been granted a stock option or a stock appreciation right under the Plan shall not limit the right of the employer to terminate the Participant's employment at any time. 
    
  Because a main purpose of the Plan is to strengthen the alignment of interests between employees of the Company (including all subsidiaries) and its shareholders to ensure the continued success of the Company, the Committee is authorized to suspend or terminate any outstanding stock option or stock appreciation right of a Participant if the Committee determines the Participant has acted significantly contrary to the best interests of the Company or its subsidiaries. For purposes of this paragraph, an action taken  significantly contrary to the best interests of the Company or its subsidiaries  includes without limitation any action taken or threatened by the Participant that the Committee determines has, or is reasonably likely to have, a significant adverse impact on the reputation, goodwill, stability, operation, personnel retention and management, or business of the Company or any subsidiary. This paragraph is in addition to any remedy the Company or a subsidiary may have at law or in equity, including without limitation injunctive and other appropriate relief. 
    
  3.    The maximum number of shares with respect to which stock options or stock appreciation rights may be granted to any Participant in any calendar year shall not exceed 2,000,000 shares. 
    
  4.    The aggregate fair market value (determined at the time when the incentive stock option is exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year) of the shares for which any Participant may be granted incentive stock options under the Plan and all other stock option plans of the Company and its subsidiaries in any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000  

(or such other amount as reflected in the limits imposed by Section 422(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to time). 
    
  5.    If the Committee grants incentive stock options, all such stock options shall contain such provisions as permit them to qualify as "incentive stock options" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as may be amended from time to time. 
    
  6.    With respect to stock options granted in tandem with stock appreciation rights, the exercise of either such stock options or such stock appreciation rights will result in the simultaneous cancellation of the same number of tandem stock appreciation rights or stock options, as the case may be. 
    
  7.    The exercise price for all stock options and stock appreciation rights shall be established by the Committee at the time of their grant and shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant. 
    
  8.    Unless otherwise authorized by the shareholders of the Company, neither the Board nor the Committee shall authorize the amendment of any outstanding stock option or stock appreciation right to reduce the exercise price. 
    
  9.    No stock option or stock appreciation right shall be cancelled and replaced with awards having a lower exercise price without the prior approval of the shareholders of the Company. This Article F, Paragraph 9 is intended to prohibit the repricing of  underwater  stock options and stock appreciation rights and shall not be construed to prohibit the adjustments permitted under Article K of the Plan. 
    
  10.    The Committee may require any Participant to accept any stock options or stock appreciation rights by means of electronic signature. 
    
  ARTICLE G -- Exercise of Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. 
    
  1.    All stock options and stock appreciation rights granted hereunder shall have a maximum life of no more than ten (10) years from the date of grant. 
    
  2.    No stock options or stock appreciation rights shall be exercisable within one (1) year from their date of grant, except in the case of the death of the Participant. 
    
  3.    Unless a transfer has been duly authorized by the Committee pursuant to Article G, Paragraph 6 of the Plan, during the lifetime of the Participant, stock options and stock appreciation rights may be exercised only by the Participant personally, or, in the event of the legal incompetence of the Participant, by the Participant's duly appointed legal guardian. 
    
  4.    In the event that a Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries while holding an unexercised stock option or stock appreciation right: 
    
           (a)     
    Any unexercisable portions thereof are then void, except in the case of: (1) death of the Participant; (2) Retirement or Special Separation that occurs more than six months from the date the options were granted; or (3) any option as to which the Committee has waived, at the time of grant, the provisions of this Article G, Paragraph 4(a). 
       
           (b) 
    Any exercisable portions thereof are then void, except in the case of: (1) death of the Participant; (2) Retirement or Special Separation; or (3) any option as to which the Committee has waived, at the time of grant, the provisions of this Article G, Paragraph 4(b). 
       
           (c) 
    In the case of a Special Separation which occurs prior to October 2, 2007, any stock option or stock appreciation right must be exercised within the time specified in the original grant or five (5) years from the date of Special Separation, whichever is shorter. For a Special Separation which occurs on or after October 2, 2007, any stock option or stock appreciation right must be exercised within the time specified in the original grant. 
       
  5.    In the case of the death of a Participant, the persons to whom the stock options or stock appreciation rights have been transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution shall have the privilege of exercising remaining stock options, stock appreciation rights or parts thereof, whether or not exercisable on the date of death of such Participant, at any time prior to the expiration date of the stock options or stock appreciation rights. 

6.    Stock options and stock appreciation rights are not transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. For the purpose of exercising stock options or stock appreciation rights after the death of the Participant, the duly appointed executors and administrators of the estate of the deceased Participant shall have the same rights with respect to the stock options and stock appreciation rights as legatees or distributees would have after distribution to them from the Participant's estate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may authorize the transfer of stock options and stock appreciation rights upon such terms and conditions as the Committee may require. Such transfer shall become effective only upon the Committee's complete satisfaction that the proposed transferee has strictly complied with such terms and conditions, and both the original Participant and the transferee shall be subject to the same terms and conditions hereunder as the original Participant. 
    
  7.    Upon the exercise of stock appreciation rights, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a redemption differential for each such stock appreciation right which shall be the difference between the then fair market value of one share of Common Stock and the exercise price of one stock appreciation right then being exercised. In the case of the redemption of stock appreciation rights by a subsidiary of the Company not located in the United States, the redemption differential shall be calculated in United States dollars and converted to the appropriate local currency on the exercise date. As determined by the Committee, the redemption differential may be paid in cash, Common Stock to be valued at its fair market value on the date of exercise, any other mode of payment deemed appropriate by the Committee or any combination thereof. 
    
  8.    Time spent on leave of absence shall be considered as employment for the purposes of the Plan. Leave of absence means any period of time away from work granted to any employee by his or her employer because of illness, injury, or other reasons satisfactory to the employer. 
    
  9.    The Company reserves the right from time to time to suspend the exercise of any stock option or stock appreciation right where such suspension is deemed by the Company as necessary or appropriate for corporate purposes. No such suspension shall extend the life of the stock option or stock appreciation right beyond its expiration date, and in no event will there be a suspension in the five (5) calendar days immediately preceding the expiration date. 
    
  10.    The Committee may require any Participant to exercise any stock options or stock appreciation rights by means of electronic signature. 
    
  ARTICLE H -- Payment for Stock Options and Tax Withholding. 
    
  Upon the exercise of a stock option, payment in full of the exercise price shall be made by the Participant. As determined by the Committee, the stock option exercise price may be paid by the Participant either in cash, shares of Common Stock valued at their fair market value on the date of exercise, a combination thereof, or such other method as determined by the Committee. In addition to payment of the exercise price, the Committee may authorize the Company to charge a reasonable administrative fee for the exercise of any stock option. Furthermore, to the extent the Company is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes in connection with any Participant's stock option exercise, the Committee may require the Participant to make such arrangements as the Company may deem necessary for the payment of such taxes required to be withheld (including, without limitation, relinquishment of a portion of such stock options or relinquishment of a portion of the proceeds received by the Participant in a simultaneous exercise and sale of stock during a  cashless  exercise). In no event, however, shall the Committee be permitted to require payment from a Participant in excess of the maximum required tax withholding rates. 
    
  ARTICLE I -- Grant of Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock or RSUs. 
    
  The Committee may grant Common Stock or RSUs to Participants under the Plan subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine. To the extent the Company is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes in connection with the lapse of restrictions on any Participant's shares of Common Stock, the Committee may require the Participant to make such arrangements as the Company may deem necessary for the payment of such taxes required to be withheld (including, without limitation, relinquishment of a portion of such shares of Common Stock). In no event, however, shall the Committee be permitted to require payment from a Participant in excess of the maximum required tax withholding rates. 
    
  ARTICLE J -- Performance Related Awards. 
    
  1.    The Committee, in its discretion, may establish performance goals for selected Participants and authorize the granting of cash, stock options, stock appreciation rights, Common Stock, RSUs or other awards that are related to the price of Common Stock, other property, or any combination thereof ( Performance Awards ) to such Participants upon achievement of such established performance goals during a specified time period (the  Performance Period ). The Committee, in its discretion, shall determine the Participants eligible for Performance Awards, the performance goals to be achieved during each Performance Period,  

the amount of any Performance Awards to be paid, and the method of payment for any Performance Awards. Performance Awards may be granted either alone or in addition to other grants made under the Plan. 
    
  2.    Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Performance Awards granted under Article J, Paragraph 1 to any Participant subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ) shall comply with all of the following requirements: 
    
  (a)    Each grant shall specify the specific performance objectives (the  Performance Objectives ) which, if achieved, will result in payment or early payment of the Performance Award. The Performance Objectives may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives that are related to the individual Participant or objectives that are related to a subsidiary, division, department, region, function or business unit of the Company in which the Participant is employed, and may consist of one or more or any combination of the following criteria: stock price, market share, sales revenue, cash flow, earnings per share, return on equity, total shareholder return, gross margin, stock price growth measures, operating total shareholder return, net earnings or net income (before or after taxes), return on assets or capital, earnings (before or after interest, taxes, depreciation and/or amortization), operating margin, acquisition integration metrics, economic value added, and/or costs. The Performance Objectives may be made relative to the performance of other corporations. The Committee, in its discretion, may change or modify these criteria, however, at all times the criterion must be valid performance criterion for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee may not change the criteria or Performance Objectives for any Performance Period that has already been approved by the Committee. The Committee may cancel a Performance Period or replace a Performance Period with a new Performance Period, provided that any such cancellation or replacement shall not cause the Performance Award to fail to meet the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code. 
    
  (b)    Each grant shall specify the minimum level of achievement required by the Participant relative to the Performance Objectives to qualify for a Performance Award. In doing so, the grant shall establish a formula for determining the percentage of the Performance Award to be awarded if performance is at or above the minimum level, but falls short of full achievement of the specified Performance Objectives. Each grant may also establish a formula for determining an additional award above and beyond the Performance Award to be granted to the Participant if performance is at or above the specified Performance Objectives. Such additional award shall also be established as a percentage of the Performance Award. The Committee may decrease a Performance Award as determined by the Performance Objectives, but in no case may the Committee increase any Performance Award as determined by the Performance Objectives. 
    
  (c)    The maximum Performance Award that may be granted to any Participant for any one-year Performance Period shall not exceed $20,000,000 or 800,000 shares of Common Stock (the  Annual Maximum ). The maximum Performance Award that may be granted to any Participant for a Performance Period greater than one year shall not exceed the Annual Maximum multiplied by the number of full years in the Performance Period. 
    
  ARTICLE K -- Adjustments. 
    
  In the event of any future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification, distribution, spin-off or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common Stock of the Company occuring after the date of approval of the Plan by the Company's shareholders, (i) the amount of shares authorized to be issued under the Plan and (ii) the number of shares and/or the exercise prices covered by outstanding stock options, stock appreciation rights or RSUs shall be adjusted appropriately and equitably to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights under the Plan. Following any such change, the term "Common Stock" shall be deemed to refer to such class of shares or other securities as may be applicable. 
    
  ARTICLE L -- Additional Provisions and Definitions. 
    
  1.    The Board may, at any time, repeal the Plan or may amend it except that no such amendment may amend this paragraph, increase the total aggregate number of shares subject to the Plan, reduce the price at which stock options or stock appreciation rights may be granted or exercised, alter the class of employees eligible to receive stock options, or increase the percentage of shares authorized to be transferred as restricted or unrestricted stock. Participants and the Company shall be bound by any such amendments as of their effective dates, but if any outstanding stock options or stock appreciation rights are materially affected adversely, notice thereof shall be given to the Participants holding such stock options and stock appreciation rights and such amendments shall not be applicable without such Participant's written consent. If the Plan is repealed in its entirety, all theretofore granted unexercised stock options or stock appreciation rights shall continue to be exercisable in accordance with their terms and shares subject to conditions or restrictions granted pursuant to the Plan shall continue to be subject to such conditions or restrictions. 

2.    In the case of a Participant who is an employee of a subsidiary of the Company, performance under the Plan, including the granting of shares of the Company, may be by the subsidiary. Nothing in the Plan shall affect the right of the Company or any subsidiary to terminate the employment of any employee with or without cause. None of the Participants, either individually or as a group, and no beneficiary, transferee or other person claiming under or through any Participant, shall have any right, title, or interest in any shares of the Company purchased or reserved for the purpose of the Plan except as to such shares, if any, as shall have been granted or transferred to him or her. Nothing in the Plan shall preclude the awarding or granting of shares of the Company to employees under any other plan or arrangement now or hereafter in effect. 
    
  3.    "Subsidiary" means any company in which more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or, if the company does not issue stock, more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined ownership interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company. In addition, the Board may designate for participation in the Plan as a "subsidiary," except for the granting of incentive stock options, those additional companies affiliated with the Company in which the Company's direct or indirect stock ownership is fifty percent (50%) or less of the total combined voting power of all classes of such company's stock, or, if the company does not issue stock, the Company's direct or indirect ownership is fifty percent (50%) or less of the company's total combined ownership interest. 
    
  4.    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, stock options and stock appreciation rights granted hereunder shall vest immediately and any conditions or restrictions on Common Stock shall lapse upon a  Change in Control.  A  Change in Control  shall mean the occurrence of any of the following: 
    
           (a) 
    An acquisition (other than directly from the Company) of any voting securities of the Company (the "Voting Securities") by any "Person" (as the term person is used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act), immediately after which such Person has "Beneficial Ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of twenty percent (20%) or more of the then outstanding shares or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities;   provided, however,   in determining whether a Change in Control has occurred pursuant to this Paragraph 4(a), shares or Voting Securities which are acquired in a "Non-Control Acquisition" (as hereinafter defined) shall not constitute an acquisition which would cause a Change in Control. A "Non-Control Acquisition" shall mean an acquisition by (i) an employee benefit plan (or a trust forming a part thereof) maintained by (A) the Company or (B) any corporation or other Person of which a majority of its voting power or its voting equity securities or equity interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company (for purposes of this definition, a "Related Entity"), (ii) the Company or any Related Entity, or (iii) any Person in connection with a "Non-Control Transaction" (as hereinafter defined); 
       
           (b) 
    The individuals who, as of July 10, 2001 are members of the Board (the "Incumbent Board"), cease for any reason to constitute at least half of the members of the Board; or, following a Merger (as hereinafter defined) which results in a Parent Corporation (as hereinafter defined), the board of directors of the ultimate Parent Corporation;   provided, however  , that if the election, or nomination for election by the Company's common stockholders, of any new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Board, such new director shall, for purposes of the Plan, be considered as a member of the Incumbent Board;   provided further, however  , that no individual shall be considered a member of the Incumbent Board if such individual initially assumed office as a result of either an actual or threatened "Election Contest" (as described in Rule 14a-11 promulgated under the Exchange Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board (a "Proxy Contest") including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest; or 
       
           (c) 
    The consummation of: 
       
           (i) 
    A merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Company or in which securities of the Company are issued (a  Merger ), unless such Merger is a "Non-Control Transaction." A "Non-Control Transaction" shall mean a Merger where: 
       
           (A) 
    the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such Merger own directly or indirectly immediately following such Merger at least fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of (x) the corporation resulting from such Merger (the "Surviving Corporation") if fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Surviving Corporation is not Beneficially Owned, directly or indirectly by another Person (a "Parent Corporation"), or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; 
       
           (B) 
    the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such Merger constitute at least half of the members of the board of directors of (x) the Surviving  

Corporation, if there is no Parent Corporation, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; and 
    
           (C) 
    no Person other than (1) the Company, (2) any Related Entity, (3) any employee benefit plan (or any trust forming a part thereof) that, immediately prior to such Merger was maintained by the Company or any Related Entity, or (4) any Person who, immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or reorganization had Beneficial Ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the then outstanding Voting Securities or shares, has Beneficial Ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities or common stock of (x) the Surviving Corporation if there is no Parent Corporation, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; 
       
           (ii) 
    A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or 
       
           (iii) 
    The sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to any Person (other than a transfer to a Related Entity or under conditions that would constitute a Non-Control Transaction with the disposition of assets being regarded as a Merger for this purpose or the distribution to the Company's stockholders of the stock of a Related Entity or any other assets). 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the then outstanding shares or Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of shares or Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of shares or Voting Securities then outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Persons, provided that if a Change in Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of shares or Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares or Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the then outstanding shares or Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall occur. 
    
  5.    The term  Special Separation  shall mean any termination of employment that occurs prior to the time a Participant is eligible to retire, except a termination for cause or a voluntary resignation that is not initiated or encouraged by the Company. 
    
  6.    The term  Retirement  shall mean: (a) retirement in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate retirement plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries; or (b) termination of employment under the permanent disability provision of any retirement plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 
    
  ARTICLE M -- Consent. 
    
  Every Participant who receives a stock option, stock appreciation right, RSU, or grant of shares pursuant to the Plan shall be bound by the terms and provisions of the Plan and of the stock option, stock appreciation right, RSU, or grant of shares agreement referable thereto, and the acceptance of any stock option, stock appreciation right, RSU, or grant of shares pursuant to the Plan shall constitute a binding agreement between the Participant and the Company and its subsidiaries and any successors in interest to any of them. Every Person who receives a stock option, stock appreciation right, RSU, or grant of shares from a Participant pursuant to the Plan shall, in addition to such terms and conditions as the Committee may require upon such grant, be bound by the terms and provisions of the Plan and of the stock option, stock appreciation right, RSU, or grant of shares agreement referable thereto, and the acceptance of any stock option, stock appreciation right, RSU, or grant of shares by such Person shall constitute a binding agreement between such Person and the Company and its subsidiaries and any successors in interest to any of them. The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio, United States of America. 
    
  ARTICLE N - Purchase of Shares or Stock Options. 
    
  The Committee may authorize any Participant to convert cash compensation otherwise payable to such Participant into stock options or shares of Common Stock under the Plan upon such terms and conditions as the Committee, in its discretion, shall determine. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in any such conversion the shares of Common Stock shall be valued at no less than one hundred percent (100%) of their fair market value. 
    
  ARTICLE O -- Duration of Plan. 
    
  The Plan will terminate on July 10, 2011 unless a different termination date is fixed by the shareholders or by action of the Board of Directors, but no such termination shall affect the prior rights under the Plan of the Company (or any subsidiary) or  

of anyone to whom stock options or stock appreciation rights were granted prior thereto or to whom shares or RSUs have been transferred prior to such termination. 
    
  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
    
  1.    Shares Awarded as a Portion of Remuneration 
       
  Any shares of Common Stock of the Company awarded as a portion of a participant's remuneration shall be valued at not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the Company's Common Stock on the date of the award. These shares may be subject to such conditions or restrictions as the Committee may determine, including a requirement that the participant remain in the employ of the Company or one of its subsidiaries for a set period of time, or until retirement. Failure to abide by any applicable restriction will result in forfeiture of the shares. 
    
  2.        U.S. Tax Effects 
    
  Incentive Stock Options 
    
  With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the optionee, counsel advises that if the optionee has continuously been an employee from the time an option has been granted until at least three months before it is exercised, under existing law no taxable income results to the optionee from the exercise of an incentive stock option at the time of exercise. However, the spread at exercise is an "adjustment" item for alternative minimum tax purposes. 
    
  Any gain realized on the sale or other disposition of stock acquired on exercise of an incentive stock option is considered as long-term capital gain for tax purposes if the stock has been held more than two years after the date the option was granted and more than one year after the date of exercise of the option. If the stock is disposed of within one year after exercise, the lesser of any gain on such disposition or the spread at exercise (i.e., the excess of the fair market value of the stock on the date of exercise over the option price) is treated as ordinary income, and any appreciation after the date of exercise is considered long-term or short-term capital gain to the optionee depending on the holding period prior to sale. However, the spread at exercise (even if greater than the gain on the disposition) is treated as ordinary income if the disposition is one on which a loss, if sustained, is not recognized--e.g., a gift, a "wash" sale or a sale to a related party. The amount of ordinary income recognized by the optionee is treated as a tax deductible expense to the Company. No other amount relative to an incentive stock option is a tax deductible expense to the Company. 
    
  Nonstatutory Stock Options 
    
  With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the optionee, counsel advises that under existing tax law gain taxable as ordinary income to the optionee is deemed to be realized at the date of exercise of the option, the gain on each share being the difference between the market price on the date of exercise and the option price. This amount is treated as a tax deductible expense to the Company at the time of the exercise of the option. Any appreciation in the value of the stock after the date of exercise is considered a long-term or short-term capital gain to the optionee depending on whether or not the stock was held for the appropriate holding period prior to sale. 
    
  Stock Appreciation Rights 
    
  With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the recipient, counsel advises that "United States persons," as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "I.R.C."), must recognize ordinary income as of the date of exercise equal to the amount paid to the recipient, i.e., the difference between the grant price and the value of the shares on the date of exercise. 
    
  Shares Awarded as a Portion of Remuneration 
    
  With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the recipient, counsel advises that "United States persons" as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "I.R.C."), must recognize ordinary income in the first taxable year in which the recipient's rights to the stock are transferable or are not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, whichever is applicable. Recipients who are "United States persons" may also elect to include the income in their tax returns for the taxable year in which they receive the shares by filing an election to do so with the appropriate office of the Internal Revenue Service within 30 days of the date the shares are transferred to them. 

The amount includable in income is the fair market value of the shares as of the day the shares are transferable or not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, whichever is applicable; if the recipient has elected to include the income in the year in which the shares are received, the amount of income includable is the fair market value of the shares at the time of transfer. 
    
  For non-United States persons, the time when income is realized, its measurement and its taxation, will depend on the laws of the particular countries in which the recipients are residents and/or citizens at the time of transfer or when the shares are first transferable and not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, as the case may be. "United States persons" who receive shares awarded as a portion of remuneration may also have tax consequences with respect to the receipt of shares or the expiration of restrictions or substantial risk of forfeiture on such shares under the laws of the particular country other than the United States of which such person is a resident or citizen. 
    
  Notwithstanding the above advice received by the Company, it is each individual recipient's responsibility to check with his or her personal tax adviser as to the tax effects and proper handling of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units and Common Stock acquired. The above advice relates specifically to the U.S. consequences of stock options, stock appreciation rights and Common Stock acquired, including the U.S. consequences to "United States persons" whether or not resident in the U.S. In addition to U.S. tax consequences, for all persons who are not U.S. residents, the time when income, if any, is realized, the measurement of such income and its taxation will also depend on the laws of the particular country other than the U.S. of which such persons are resident and/or citizens at the time of grant or the time of exercise, as the case may be. 
    
  The Plan is not subject to the qualification requirements of Section 401(a) of the I.R.C. 
    
  3.        Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 
    
  The Plan is not subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"), as amended. 
    
  4.        Incorporation of Certain Documents by Reference 
    
  The following documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (File No. 1-434) pursuant to the 1934 Act are incorporated into this document by reference: 
    
  1.    The Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the most recent fiscal year ended June 30; 
  2.    The Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the most recent quarter(s); and 
  3.    All other documents filed by the Company pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act after the date 
  of this Prospectus and prior to the filing of a post-effective amendment which indicates that all securities offered have been sold or which deregisters all securities then remaining unsold. 
    
  The Company will provide without charge to each participant in the Plan, upon oral or written request, a copy of any or all of these documents other than exhibits to such documents, unless such exhibits are specifically incorporated by reference into such documents. In addition, the Company will provide without charge to such participants a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders, proxy statement, and other communications distributed generally to security holders of the Company. Requests for such copies should be directed to Mr. Jay A. Ernst, Manager, Shareholder Services, The Procter   Gamble Company, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201, (513) 983-3413. 
    
  5.        Additional Information 
    
  Additional information about the Plan and its administrators may be obtained from Mr. E.J. Wunsch, Assistant Secretary, The Procter   Gamble Company, One Procter   Gamble Plaza, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202, (513) 983-4370. 

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 fy171810-kexhibit10x2.htm
 THE P&G 1992 STOCK PLAN

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (10-2) 
    
  The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan 
  (as amended December 11, 2001) 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 1992 STOCK PLAN 
  (as amended December 11, 2001) 
    
  ARTICLE A - Purpose. 
    
  The purpose of The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (hereinafter referred to as the  Plan) is to encourage those employees of The Procter   Gamble Company (hereinafter referred to as the  Company ) and its subsidiaries who are largely responsible for the long-term success and development of the business to strengthen the alignment of interests between employees and the Company's shareholders through the increased ownership of shares of the Company's Common Stock, and to encourage those employees to remain in the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries. This will be accomplished through the granting to employees of options to purchase shares of the Common Stock of the Company, payment of a portion of the employees' remuneration in shares of the Common Stock, and the granting to them by the Company and a subsidiary, if appropriate, of deferred awards related to the increase in the price of the Common Stock of the Company as provided by the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan. 
    
  ARTICLE B - Administration. 
    
  1.    The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (hereinafter referred to as the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company (hereinafter referred to as the "Board"), or such other committee as may be designated by the Board. The Committee shall consist of not less than three (3) members of the Board who are neither officers nor employees, or members of the Board who are "Non-Employee Directors" as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (hereinafter referred to as the "1934 Act"), or any successor rule or definition adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, to be appointed by the Board from time to time and to serve at the discretion of the Board. 
    
  2.    It shall be the duty of the Committee to administer this Plan in accordance with its provisions, to report thereon not less than once each year to the Board and to make such recommendations of amendments or otherwise as it deems necessary or appropriate. A decision by a majority of the Committee shall govern all actions of the Committee. 
    
  3.    Subject to the express provisions of this Plan, the Committee shall have authority: to grant nonstatutory and incentive stock options; to grant to recipients stock appreciation rights either freestanding, in tandem with simultaneously granted stock options, or in parallel with simultaneously granted stock options; to award a portion of a recipient's remuneration in shares of Common Stock of the Company subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine; to determine all the terms and provisions of the respective stock option, stock appreciation right, and stock award agreements including setting the dates when each stock option or stock appreciation right or part thereof may be exercised and determining the conditions and restrictions, if any, of any shares of Common Stock acquired through the exercise of any stock option; and to make all other determinations it deems necessary or advisable for administering this Plan; provided, however, the Committee shall have the further authority at time of grant to: 
    
  (a)    waive the provisions of Article F, paragraph 1(a); 
    
  (b)     waive the provisions of Article F, paragraph 1(b); 
    
  (c)    waive the provisions of Article G, paragraph 4(a); and 
    
  (d)    impose conditions in lieu of those set forth in Article G, paragraphs 4 through 7, for nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, and stock award grants which do not increase or extend the rights of the recipient, 
    
  to take into consideration the differences, limitations, and requirements of foreign laws or conditions including tax regulations, exchange controls or investment restrictions, possible unenforceability of any part of this Plan, or other matters deemed appropriate by it. 
    
  4.    The Committee may establish from time to time such regulations, provisions, and procedures within the terms of this Plan as, in its opinion, may be advisable in the administration of this Plan. 
    
  5.    The Committee may designate the Secretary of the Company or other employees of the Company to assist the Committee in the administration of this Plan and may grant authority to such persons to execute documents on behalf of the Committee. 

ARTICLE C -- Participation. 
    
  The Committee shall select those employees of the Company and its subsidiaries who, in the opinion of the Committee, have demonstrated a capacity for contributing in a substantial manner to the success of such companies and shall determine the number of shares of the Common Stock of the Company to be transferred under this Plan subject to such conditions or restrictions as the Committee may determine and the number of shares with respect to which stock options or stock appreciation rights will be granted. The Committee may consult with the Chief Executive, but nevertheless the Committee has the full authority to act, and the Committee's actions shall be final. 
    
  ARTICLE D -- Limitation on Number of Shares for the Plan. 
    
  1.    Unless otherwise authorized by the shareholders, the maximum aggregate number of shares available for award under this Plan for each calendar year the Plan is in effect shall be one percent (1%) of the total issued shares of Common Stock of the Company as of June 30 of the immediately preceding fiscal year. 
    
  2.    Any of the authorized shares may be used in respect of any of the types of awards described in this Plan, except that no more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the authorized shares in any calendar year may be issued as restricted or unrestricted stock and no more than 50,000,000 of the authorized shares during the term of the Plan may be issued as incentive stock options. 
    
  3.    Any authorized shares not used in a calendar year shall be available for awards under this Plan in succeeding calendar years. 
    
  ARTICLE E -- Shares Subject to Use Under the Plan. 
    
  1.    The shares to be delivered by the Company upon exercise of stock options or stock appreciation rights shall be either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares, as determined by the Board. In the case of redemption of stock appreciation rights by one of the Company's subsidiaries, such shares shall be shares acquired by that subsidiary. 
    
  2.    For purposes of this Plan, restricted or unrestricted stock awarded under the terms of this Plan shall be authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares, or shares acquired for purposes of the Plan by the Company or a subsidiary, as determined by the Board. 
    
  ARTICLE F -- Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. 
    
  1.    In addition to such other conditions as may be established by the Committee, in consideration of the granting of stock options or stock appreciation rights under the terms of this Plan, the recipient agrees as follows: 
    
  (a)    The right to exercise any stock option or stock appreciation right shall be conditional upon certification by the recipient at time of exercise that the recipient intends to remain in the employ of the Company or one of its subsidiaries (except in cases of retirement, disability or Special Separation as defined in section 6 of Article G) for at least one (1) year following the date of the exercise of the stock option or stock appreciation right, and, 
    
  (b)    In order to better protect the goodwill of the Company and its subsidiaries and to prevent the disclosure of the Company's or it subsidiaries' trade secrets and confidential information and thereby help insure the long-term success of the business, the recipient, without prior written consent of the Company, will not engage in any activity or provide any services, whether as a director, manager, supervisor, employee, adviser, consultant or otherwise, for a period of three (3) years following the date of the recipient's termination of employment with the Company (except for terminations of employment resulting from retirement or Special Separation), in connection with the manufacture, development, advertising, promotion, or sale of any product which is the same as or similar to or competitive with any products of the Company or its subsidiaries (including both existing products as well as products known to the recipient, as a consequence of the recipient's employment with the Company or one of its subsidiaries, to be in development): 
    
           (1) 
    with respect to which the recipient's work has been directly concerned at any time during the two (2) years preceding termination of employment with the Company or one of its subsidiaries or 
       
           (2) 
    with respect to which during that period of time the recipient, as a consequence of the recipient's job performance and duties, acquired knowledge of trade secrets or other confidential information of the Company or its subsidiaries. 

For purposes of this section, it shall be conclusively presumed that recipients have knowledge of information they were directly exposed to through actual receipt or review of memos or documents containing such information, or through actual attendance at meetings at which such information was discussed or disclosed. 
    
  (c)    The provisions of this Article are not in lieu of, but are in addition to the continuing obligation of the recipient (which recipient hereby acknowledges) to not use or disclose the Company's or its subsidiaries' trade secrets and confidential information known to the recipient until any particular trade secret or confidential information become generally known (through no fault of the recipient), whereupon the restriction on use and disclosure shall cease as to that item. Information regarding products in development, in test marketing or being marketed or promoted in a discrete geographic region, which information the Company or one of its subsidiaries is considering for broader use, shall not be deemed generally known until such broader use is actually commercially implemented. As used in this Article, "generally known" means known throughout the domestic U. S. industry or, in the case of recipients who have job responsibilities outside of the United States, the appropriate foreign country or countries' industry. 
    
  (d)    By acceptance of any offered stock option or stock appreciation rights granted under the terms of this Plan, the recipient acknowledges that if the recipient were, without authority, to use or disclose the Company's or any of its subsidiaries' trade secrets or confidential information or threaten to do so, the Company or one of its subsidiaries would be entitled to injunctive and other appropriate relief to prevent the recipient from doing so. The recipient acknowledges that the harm caused to the Company by the breach or anticipated breach of this Article is by its nature irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of proof as to the monetary harm that would ensue. The recipient consents that any interim or final equitable relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction shall, at the request of the Company or one of its subsidiaries, be entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over the recipient, without prejudice to any rights either party may have to appeal from the proceedings which resulted in any grant of such relief. 
    
  (e)    If any of the provisions contained in this Article shall for any reason, whether by application of existing law or law which may develop after the recipient's acceptance of an offer of the granting of stock appreciation rights or stock options, be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be overly broad as to scope of activity, duration, or territory, the recipient agrees to join the Company or any of its subsidiaries in requesting such court to construe such provision by limiting or reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent compatible with then applicable law. If any one or more of the terms, provisions, covenants, or restrictions of this Article shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, then the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants, and restrictions of this Article shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired, or invalidated. 
    
  2.    The fact that an employee has been granted a stock option or a stock appreciation right under this Plan shall not limit the right of the employer to terminate the recipient's employment at any time. The Committee is authorized to suspend or terminate any outstanding stock option or stock appreciation right for actions taken prior to termination of employment if the Committee determines the recipient has acted significantly contrary to the best interests of the Company. 
    
  3.    More than one stock option or stock appreciation right may be granted to any employee under this Plan but the maximum number of shares with respect to which stock options or stock appreciation rights may be granted to any employee in any calendar year shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the number of shares which can be issued or transferred annually hereunder. 
    
  4.    The aggregate fair market value (determined at the time when the incentive stock option is exercisable for the first time by an employee during any calendar year) of the shares for which any employee may be granted incentive stock options under this Plan and all other stock option plans of the Company and its subsidiaries in any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000 (or such other amount as reflected in the limits imposed by Section 422(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to time). 
    
  5.    If the Committee grants incentive stock options, all such stock options shall contain such provisions as permit them to qualify as "incentive stock options" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as may be amended from time to time. 
    
  6.    With respect to stock options granted in tandem with or parallel to stock appreciation rights, the exercise of either such stock options or such stock appreciation rights will result in the simultaneous cancellation of the same number of tandem or parallel stock appreciation rights or stock options, as the case may be. 

7.    The exercise price for all stock options and stock appreciation rights shall be established by the Committee at the time of their grant and shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock of the Company on the date of grant. 
    
  ARTICLE G -- Exercise of Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. 
    
  1.    All stock options and stock appreciation rights granted hereunder shall have a maximum life of no more than fifteen (15) years from the date of grant; provided, however, that any stock options or stock appreciation rights with a life of more than ten (10) years from the date of grant that have been conditionally granted to the Chief Executive or to any other executive officer subject to the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and subject to taxation under United States law, as it may be amended from time to time, prior to the annual meeting of shareholders scheduled for October 12, 1999 shall automatically be canceled effective October 12, 1999 if the shareholders do not adopt a resolution at such annual meeting approving grants to such officers with a maximum life of up to fifteen (15) years from the date of grant. 
    
  2.    No stock options or stock appreciation rights shall be exercisable within one (1) year from their date of grant, except in the case of the death of the recipient. 
    
  3.    During the lifetime of the recipient, stock options and stock appreciation rights may be exercised only by the recipient personally, or, in the event of the legal incompetence of the recipient, by the recipient's duly appointed legal guardian. 
    
  4.    In case a recipient of stock options or stock appreciation rights ceases to be an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries while holding an unexercised stock option or stock appreciation right: 
    
  (a)    Any unexercisable portions thereof are then void, except in the case of: (1) death of the recipient; (2) any Special Separation (as defined in section 6 of this Article G) that occurs more than six months from the date the options were granted; or (3) any option as to which the Committee has waived, at the time of grant, the provisions of this Article G, paragraph 4(a) pursuant to the authority granted by Article B, paragraph 3. 
    
  (b) Any exercisable portions thereof are then void, except in the case of death, retirement in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate profit sharing or retirement plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or Special Separation (as defined in section 6 of this Article G) of the recipient. 
    
  5.    In the case of the death of a recipient of stock options or stock appreciation rights while an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, the persons to whom the stock options or stock appreciation rights have been transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution shall have the privilege of exercising remaining stock options, stock appreciation rights or parts thereof, whether or not exercisable on the date of death of such employee, at any time prior to the expiration date of the stock options or stock appreciation rights. 
    
  6.    Termination of employment under the permanent disability provision of any appropriate profit sharing or retirement plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries shall be deemed the same as retirement. Special Separation means any termination of employment, except a termination for cause or a voluntary resignation that is not initiated or encouraged by the Company, that occurs prior to the time a recipient is eligible to retire. The death of a recipient of stock options or stock appreciation rights subsequent to retirement or Special Separation shall not render exercisable stock options or stock appreciation rights which were unexercisable at the time of the retirement or Special Separation. The persons to whom the exercisable stock options or stock appreciation rights have been transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution shall have the privilege of exercising such remaining stock options, stock appreciation rights or parts thereof, at any time prior to the expiration date of the stock options or stock appreciation rights. 
    
  7.    Stock options and stock appreciation rights are not transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. For the purpose of exercising stock options or stock appreciation rights after the death of the recipient, the duly appointed executors and administrators of the estate of the deceased recipient shall have the same rights with respect to the stock options and stock appreciation rights as legatees or distributees would have after distribution to them from the recipient's estate. 
    
  8.    Upon the exercise of stock appreciation rights, the recipient shall be entitled to receive a redemption differential for each such stock appreciation right which shall be the difference between the then fair market value of one share of the Common Stock of the Company and the exercise price of one stock appreciation right then being exercised. In the case of the redemption of stock appreciation rights by a subsidiary of the Company not located in the United States, the redemption differential shall be calculated in United States dollars and converted to the appropriate local currency on the exercise date. As determined by the Committee, the redemption differential may be paid in cash, Common Stock of the Company to be valued at its fair market value  

on the date of exercise, any other mode of payment deemed appropriate by the Committee or any combination thereof. The number of shares with respect to which stock appreciation rights are being exercised shall not be available for granting future stock options or stock appreciation rights under this Plan. 
    
  9.    The Committee may, in its sole discretion, permit a stock option which is being exercised either (a) by an optionee whose retirement is imminent or who has retired or (b) after the death of the optionee, to be surrendered, in lieu of exercise, for an amount equal to the difference between the stock option exercise price and the fair market value of shares of the Common Stock of the Company on the day the stock option is surrendered, payment to be made in shares of the Company's Common Stock which are subject to this Plan valued at their fair market value on such date, cash, or a combination thereof, in such proportion and upon such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Committee. The difference between the number of shares subject to stock options so surrendered and the number of shares, if any, issued upon such surrender shall represent shares which shall not be available for granting future stock options under this Plan. 
    
  10.    Time spent on leave of absence shall be considered as employment for the purposes of this Plan. Leave of absence means any period of time away from work granted to any employee by his or her employer because of illness, injury, or other reasons satisfactory to the employer. 
    
  11.    The Company reserves the right from time to time to suspend the exercise of any stock option or stock appreciation right where such suspension is deemed by it necessary or appropriate for corporate purposes. No such suspension shall extend the life of the stock option or stock appreciation right beyond its expiration date, and in no event will there be a suspension in the five (5) calendar days immediately preceding the expiration date. 
    
  ARTICLE H -- Payment for Stock Options. 
    
  Upon the exercise of a stock option, payment in full of the exercise price shall be made by the optionee. As determined by the Committee, the stock option exercise price may be paid for by the optionee either in cash, shares of the Common Stock of the Company to be valued at their fair market value on the date of exercise, a combination thereof, or such other method as determined by the Committee. 
    
  ARTICLE I -- Transfer of Shares. 
    
  1.    The Committee may transfer Common Stock of the Company under the Plan subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine. The conditions and restrictions may vary from time to time and with respect to particular employees or group of employees and may be set forth in agreements between the Company and the employee or in the awards of stock to them, all as the Committee determines. It is contemplated that the conditions and restrictions established by the Committee will be consistent with the objectives of this Plan and may be of the following types. In giving these examples, it is not intended to restrict the Committee's authority to impose other restrictions or conditions, or to waive restrictions or conditions under circumstances deemed by the Committee to be appropriate and not contrary to the best interests of the Company. 
    
  (a)        Restrictions 
    
  The employee will not be able to sell, pledge, or dispose of the shares during a specified period except in accordance with the agreement or award. Such restrictions will lapse either after a period of, for example, five years, or in fifteen or fewer annual installments following retirement or termination of employment, as the Committee from time to time may determine. However, upon the transfer of shares subject to restrictions, an employee will have all incidents of ownership in the shares, including the right to dividends (unless otherwise restricted by the Committee), to vote the shares, and to make gifts of them to family members (still subject to the restrictions). 
    
  (b)        Lapse of Restrictions 
    
  In order to have the restrictions lapse, an employee may be required to continue in the employ of the Company or a subsidiary for a prescribed period of time. Exemption from this requirement may be prescribed in the case of death, disability, or retirement, or as otherwise prescribed by the Committee. 
    
  ARTICLE J -- Adjustments. 
    
  In the event of any future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification, distribution, spin-off or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common Stock of the Company occurring after the date of approval of the Plan by the Company's shareholders,  

(i) the amount of shares authorized to be issued under the Plan and (ii) the number of shares and/or the exercise prices covered by outstanding stock options and stock appreciation rights shall be adjusted appropriately and equitably to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights under the Plan. Following any such change, the term "Common Stock" shall be deemed to refer to such class of shares or other securities as may be applicable. 
    
  ARTICLE K -- Additional Provisions. 
    
  1.    The Board may, at any time, repeal this Plan or may amend it from time to time except that no such amendment may amend this paragraph, increase the annual aggregate number of shares subject to this Plan, reduce the price at which stock options or stock appreciation rights may be granted, exercised, or surrendered, alter the class of employees eligible to receive stock options, or increase the percentage of shares authorized to be transferred as restricted or unrestricted stock. The recipient of awards under this Plan and the Company shall be bound by any such amendments as of their effective dates, but if any outstanding stock options or stock appreciation rights are affected, notice thereof shall be given to the holders of such stock options and stock appreciation rights and such amendments shall not be applicable to such holder without his or her written consent. If this Plan is repealed in its entirety, all theretofore granted unexercised stock options or stock appreciation rights shall continue to be exercisable in accordance with their terms and shares subject to conditions or restrictions transferred pursuant to this Plan shall continue to be subject to such conditions or restrictions. 
    
  2.    In the case of an employee of a subsidiary company, performance under this Plan, including the transfer of shares of the Company, may be by the subsidiary. Nothing in this Plan shall affect the right of the Company or any subsidiary to terminate the employment of any employee with or without cause. None of the participants, either individually or as a group, and no beneficiary or other person claiming under or through any participant, shall have any right, title, or interest in any shares of the Company purchased or reserved for the purpose of this Plan except as to such shares, if any, as shall have been granted or transferred to him or her. Nothing in this Plan shall preclude the issuance or transfer of shares of the Company to employees under any other plan or arrangement now or hereafter in effect. 
    
  3.    "Subsidiary" means any company in which greater than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company. In addition, the Board may designate for participation in this Plan as a "subsidiary," except for the granting of incentive stock options, those additional companies affiliated with the Company in which the Company's direct or indirect stock ownership is less than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of such company's stock. 
    
  4.    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the this Plan, stock options and stock appreciation rights granted hereunder shall vest immediately and any conditions or restrictions on Common Stock shall lapse upon a  Change in Control.  A  Change in Control  shall mean the occurrence of any of the following: 
    
           (a)     
    An acquisition (other than directly from the Company) of any voting securities of the Company (the "Voting Securities") by any "Person" (as the term person is used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act), immediately after which such Person has "Beneficial Ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of twenty percent (20%) or more of the then outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities;   provided, however,   in determining whether a Change in Control has occurred pursuant to this Section 4(a), Shares or Voting Securities which are acquired in a "Non-Control Acquisition" (as hereinafter defined) shall not constitute an acquisition which would cause a Change in Control. A "Non-Control Acquisition" shall mean an acquisition by (i) an employee benefit plan (or a trust forming a part thereof) maintained by (A) the Company or (B) any corporation or other Person of which a majority of its voting power or its voting equity securities or equity interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company (for purposes of this definition, a "Related Entity"), (ii) the Company or any Related Entity, or (iii) any Person in connection with a "Non-Control Transaction" (as hereinafter defined); 
       
           (b) 
    The individuals who, as of July 11, 2000 are members of the Board (the "Incumbent Board"), cease for any reason to constitute at least half of the members of the Board; or, following a Merger (as hereinafter defined) which results in a Parent Corporation (as hereinafter defined), the board of directors of the ultimate Parent Corporation;   provided, however  , that if the election, or nomination for election by the Company's common stockholders, of any new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Board, such new director shall, for purposes of this Plan, be considered as a member of the Incumbent Board;   provided further, however  , that no individual shall be considered a member of the Incumbent Board if such individual initially assumed office as a result of either an actual or threatened "Election Contest" (as described in Rule 14a-11 promulgated under the Exchange Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board (a "Proxy Contest") including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest; or 

(c)    The consummation of: 

(i) 
    A merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Company or in which securities of the Company are issued (a  Merger ), unless such Merger is a "Non-Control Transaction." A "Non-Control Transaction" shall mean a Merger where: 
       
           (A) 
    the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such Merger own directly or indirectly immediately following such Merger at least fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of (x) the corporation resulting from such Merger (the "Surviving Corporation") if fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Surviving Corporation is not Beneficially Owned, directly or indirectly by another Person (a "Parent Corporation"), or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; 
       
           (B) 
    the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such Merger constitute at least half of the members of the board of directors of (x) the Surviving Corporation, if there is no Parent Corporation, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; and 
       
           (C) 
    no Person other than (1) the Company, (2) any Related Entity, (3) any employee benefit plan (or any trust forming a part thereof) that, immediately prior to such Merger was maintained by the Company or any Related Entity, or (4) any Person who, immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or reorganization had Beneficial Ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the then outstanding Voting Securities or Shares, has Beneficial Ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities or common stock of (x) the Surviving Corporation if there is no Parent Corporation, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; 
       
           (ii) 
    A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or 
       
           (iii) 
    The sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to any Person (other than a transfer to a Related Entity or under conditions that would constitute a Non-Control Transaction with the disposition of assets being regarded as a Merger for this purpose or the distribution to the Company's stockholders of the stock of a Related Entity or any other assets). 
       
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the then outstanding Shares or Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Shares or Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Shares or Voting Securities then outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Persons, provided that if a Change in Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of Shares or Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional Shares or Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the then outstanding Shares or Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall occur. 
    
  ARTICLE L -- Consent. 
    
  Every recipient of a stock option, stock appreciation right, or transfer of shares pursuant to this Plan shall be bound by the terms and provisions of this Plan and of the stock option, stock appreciation right, or transfer of shares agreement referable thereto, and the acceptance of any stock option, stock appreciation right, or transfer of shares pursuant to this Plan shall constitute a binding agreement between the recipient and the Company and its subsidiaries and any successors in interest to any of them. This Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio, United States of America. 
    
  ARTICLE M -- Duration of Plan. 
    
  This Plan will terminate on July 14, 2002 unless a different termination date is fixed by the shareholders or by action of the Board of Directors, but no such termination shall affect the prior rights under this Plan of the Company (or any subsidiary) or  

of anyone to whom stock options or stock appreciation rights were granted prior thereto or to whom shares have been transferred prior to such termination. 
    
  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
    
  1.    Shares Awarded as a Portion of Remuneration 
    
  Any shares of Common Stock of the Company awarded as a portion of a participant's remuneration shall be valued at not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the Company's Common Stock on the date of the award. These shares may be subject to such conditions or restrictions as the Committee may determine, including a requirement that the participant remain in the employ of the Company or one of its subsidiaries for a set period of time, or until retirement. Failure to abide by any applicable restriction will result in forfeiture of the shares. 
    
  2.        Tax Effects 
    
  Incentive Stock Options 
    
  With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the optionee, counsel advises that if the optionee has continuously been an employee from the time an option has been granted until at least three months before it is exercised, under existing law no taxable income results to the optionee from the exercise of an incentive stock option at the time of exercise. However, the spread at exercise is an "adjustment" item for alternative minimum tax purposes. 
    
  Any gain realized on the sale or other disposition of stock acquired on exercise of an incentive stock option is considered as long-term capital gain for tax purposes if the stock has been held more than two years after the date the option was granted and more than one year after the date of exercise of the option. If the stock is disposed of within one year after exercise, the lesser of any gain on such disposition or the spread at exercise (i.e., the excess of the fair market value of the stock on the date of exercise over the option price) is treated as ordinary income, and any appreciation after the date of exercise is considered long-term or short-term capital gain to the optionee depending on the holding period prior to sale. However, the spread at exercise (even if greater than the gain on the disposition) is treated as ordinary income if the disposition is one on which a loss, if sustained, is not recognized--e.g., a gift, a "wash" sale or a sale to a related party. The amount of ordinary income recognized by the optionee is treated as a tax deductible expense to the Company. No other amount relative to an incentive stock option is a tax deductible expense to the Company. 
    
  Nonstatutory Stock Options 
    
  With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the optionee, counsel advises that under existing tax law gain taxable as ordinary income to the optionee is deemed to be realized at the date of exercise of the option, the gain on each share being the difference between the market price on the date of exercise and the option price. This amount is treated as a tax deductible expense to the Company at the time of the exercise of the option. Any appreciation in the value of the stock after the date of exercise is considered a long-term or short-term capital gain to the optionee depending on whether or not the stock was held for the appropriate holding period prior to sale. 
    
  Stock Appreciation Rights 
    
  With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the recipient, counsel advises that "United States persons," as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "I.R.C."), must recognize ordinary income as of the date of exercise equal to the amount paid to the recipient, i.e., the difference between the grant price and the value of the shares on the date of exercise. 
    
  Shares Awarded as a Portion of Remuneration 
    
  With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the recipient, counsel advises that "United States persons" as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "I.R.C."), must recognize ordinary income in the first taxable year in which the recipient's rights to the stock are transferable or are not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, whichever is applicable. Recipients who are "United States persons" may also elect to include the income in their tax returns for the taxable year in which they receive the shares by filing an election to do so with the appropriate office of the Internal Revenue Service within 30 days of the date the shares are transferred to them. 

The amount includable in income is the fair market value of the shares as of the day the shares are transferable or not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, whichever is applicable; if the recipient has elected to include the income in the year in which the shares are received, the amount of income includable is the fair market value of the shares at the time of transfer. 
    
  For non-United States persons, the time when income is realized, its measurement and its taxation, will depend on the laws of the particular countries in which the recipients are residents and/or citizens at the time of transfer or when the shares are first transferable and not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, as the case may be. "United States persons" who receive shares awarded as a portion of remuneration may also have tax consequences with respect to the receipt of shares or the expiration of restrictions or substantial risk of forfeiture on such shares under the laws of the particular country other than the United States of which such person is a resident or citizen. 
    
  Notwithstanding the above advice received by the Company, it is each individual recipient's responsibility to check with his or her personal tax adviser as to the tax effects and proper handling of stock options, stock appreciation rights and Common Stock acquired. The above advice relates specifically to the U.S. consequences of stock options, stock appreciation rights and Common Stock acquired, including the U.S. consequences to "United States persons" whether or not resident in the U.S. In addition to U.S. tax consequences, for all persons who are not U.S. residents, the time when income, if any, is realized, the measurement of such income and its taxation will also depend on the laws of the particular country other than the U.S. of which such persons are resident and/or citizens at the time of grant or the time of exercise, as the case may be. 
    
  The Plan is not subject to the qualification requirements of Section 401(a) of the I.R.C. 
    
  3.        Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 
    
  The Plan is not subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"), as amended. 
    
  4.        Incorporation of Certain Documents by Reference 
    
  The following documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (File No. 1-434) pursuant to the 1934 Act are incorporated into this document by reference: 
    
  1.    The Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001; 
  2.    The Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001; and 
  3.    All other documents filed by the Company pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act after 
  the date of this Prospectus and prior to the filing of a post-effective amendment which indicates that all securities offered have been sold or which deregisters all securities then remaining unsold. 
    
  The Company will provide without charge to each participant in the Plan, upon oral or written request, a copy of any or all of these documents other than exhibits to such documents, unless such exhibits are specifically incorporated by reference into such documents. In addition, the Company will provide without charge to such participants a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders, proxy statement, and other communications distributed generally to security holders of the Company. Requests for such copies should be directed to Mr. James C. Ashley, Manager, Shareholder Services, The Procter   Gamble Company, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201, (513) 983-3413. 
    
  5.        Additional Information 
    
  Additional information about the Plan and its administrators may be obtained from Mr. Terry L. Overbey, Secretary, The Procter   Gamble Company, One Procter   Gamble Plaza, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202, (513) 983-4463. 

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.3>
 4
 fy171810-kexhibit10x3.htm
 THE P&G EXECUTIVE GROUP LIFE INSURANCE POLICY

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (10-3) 
    
  The Procter   Gamble Executive Group Life Insurance Policy 

1997 Policy 
    
  MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 
  This memorandum dated as of December 30, 1997, reflects the understanding and agreement between The Procter   Gamble Company as policyholder ( Policyholder/P G ) of a Flexible Premium Group Variable Life Insurance Policy (the  Policy ) and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( Carrier/Metropolitan ). 
    
  Policyholder and Carrier understand and agree that the following is in no way inconsistent with the Policy: 
    
  Qualification of the Policy as Life Insurance (IRC Sections 7702 and 101) 
    
  Assuming insurable interest by the Policyholder, Carrier will administer the Policy to qualify as a life insurance contract under Section 7702 of the Internal Revenue Code (the  IRC ), to have a bona fide element of risk, and to provide death benefits under the Policy that will be excludible from taxable income to the extent provided under IRC section 101(a). On or before the date of this memorandum, Carrier has provided an opinion from outside counsel addressed to Policyholder that the Policy complies with the requirements of section 7702. 
    
  Qualification of the Policy as a Variable Contract 
    
  Subject to the conditions stated below, Carrier will administer the Policy to (a) be a  variable contract  within the meaning of Section 817(d) of the Internal Revenue Code and (b) be based on one or more segregated asset accounts, the assets of which are owned by Carrier and are adequately diversified, as required by Internal Revenue Code Section 817(h). 
    
  Policyholder may determine the percentage of premium payments and/or policy cash value that is allocated to a specific separate account and will have the right to reallocate amounts among the separate accounts as provided in the Policy. The Policyholder shall not have the right to manage the assets of the separate accounts or to direct the purchase or sale of specific investment assets and will not communicate directly or in any manner with respect to these separate accounts with any of the managers or sub investment managers of the separate accounts. 
    
  Metropolitan will be the investment manager for any Separate Accounts under this Policy. Separate Accounts may have sub-investment managers chosen by Metropolitan. 
    
  The Policy will state that the assets held in each Separate Account will be maintained solely for the liabilities of the participants in that Separate Account. The Carrier will make provision that the income, gains and losses of each Separate Account shall be credited to or charged against that Separate Account's assets and none of the assets held in a Separate Account will be charged as chargeable with liabilities arising out of any other business of the Carrier or used for purposes unrelated to the terms and provisions of that Separate Account. On or before the date of this memorandum, Carrier has provided a letter from its counsel addressed to Policyholder on these issues. 
    
  Underwriting 
  Based on the census in the November 11, 1998 illustrations, current participants who are domestic actives and retirees will be covered under Carrier's Guaranteed Issue program for the plan benefit and cost recovery amounts in effect on the date the Policy is issued. 
    
  Future new participants will be subject to the following  Active at Work  criteria: 
    
  not been absent from work due to illness or medical treatment for a period of more than 5 consecutive days in the last 3 months; and 
    
  are actively at work, full time performing all duties of regular occupation, at customary place of employment. 
    
  The guaranteed issue limit upon entry into the plan by new participants will be $2 million. Based on the current plan design, death benefits under the Policy may be increased without additional underwriting: 
    
  by reason of promotional increases verified by P G, and 
    
  by up to 15% per year (with any unused portion of such increment rolling forward for five years on a cumulative basis) to reflect compensation (salary and bonus) increases, 

subject to a lifetime guaranteed issue limit of $5,000,000 per life, which limit will be reviewed at least every five years and (absent retention, reinsurance or adverse selection constraints) adjusted to accommodate anticipated plan benefit and cost recovery amounts. Amounts in excess of the guaranteed issue limits will, at Carrier's request, be subject to underwriting. 
    
  Carrier will not deny claims by reason of the suicide exclusion provision of the Policy. Carrier acknowledges, accepts and agrees to be bound by consents to insurance, beneficiary designations and assignments in effect under P G's executive life insurance program. 
    
  Cost of Term Insurance Charges 
    
  The Cost of Term Insurance charges ( COI ) for the current active population and new entrants (meeting the  active at work  requirements) will be based on 90% of Carrier's current Corporate Universal Life Guaranteed Issue, Sex Distinct, Unismoker rates. The current retirees will have rates equal to 120% of Carrier's Corporate Universal Life Guaranteed Issue, Sex Distinct, Unismoker rates. 
    
  P   G will have COI rates equal to the foregoing unless Carrier's Corporate Universal Life Guaranteed Issue, Sex Distinct, Unismoker rates are increased to the maximum rates of 1980 CSO table (Table A for males and Table G for females). Only at that time will the rates under this Policy for actives and new entrants be increased to up to 100% of Corporate Universal Life Guaranteed Issue, Sex Distinct, Unismoker rates, with a corresponding change in the COI for current retirees. Any future changes in COI rates will be determined based on changes in Corporate Universal Life Guaranteed Issue Rates. Metropolitan shall inform the Policyholder in writing at least 60 days in advance of any changes in such rates. 
    
  The Guaranteed Issue, Sex Distinct COI rates are the rates that Metropolitan charges in Individual Executive Pooled Policies which are selected by the Guaranteed Issue Underwriting procedure and are filed with the state Insurance Departments. The Corporate Universal Life Product is one of those policies included in this pool. Any changes in these rates are required to be filed with the state Insurance Departments and must be justifiable in terms of experience of the Guaranteed Issue mortality pool. Therefore, the insured employees of this Policy join the mortality pool which is the aggregate of all insured executives who are selected by the Guaranteed Issue Underwriting procedure. The future determination of the COI of this pool is by the mortality experience of the pool in total and is not by the mortality experience of each case or a subgroup of insured lives of the pool. Any changes in these rates must apply to all policies which are charged the Guaranteed Issue COI rates, including the Policy. 
    
  Upon reasonable notice from Policyholder, Metropolitan will develop COI charges, retention and retrospective deductions based on the demographics of insured lives in the plan at that time. 
    
  The guaranteed maximum COI will never exceed those based on the 1980 CSO Table (Table A for males and Table G for females). 
    
  Enhanced Policy Administration 
    
  At Policyholder's request, Carrier will provide enhanced administrative services with respect to the Policy. Such services will include: 
    
  A.    Program Analysis 
    
  1. Prepare feasibility studies and recommendations of various funding level alternatives. 
    
  2. Provide financial analysis of the program. 
    
  B.    Program Establishment 
    
  1. Provide specimen documents to and reviewing specimen documents with Policyholder's legal counsel and auditors. 
    
  2. Prepare financial projections and, where applicable, proxy statement text with respect to the program. 
    
  3. Coordinate and establish program implementation and administration, and set up records and other systems for the program. 
    
  4. Process section 1035 exchange. 
    
  C.    Program Documentation. Provide program documentation, including: 

1. Program explanation (including original assumptions). 
    
  2. Insurance schedule. 
    
  3. Funding assumptions and corporate composite projections. 
    
  4. Participant census. 
    
  5. Individual participant information. 
    
  6. Definition of Payment procedures. 
    
  a. Premiums 
    
  b. Death benefits 
    
  c. Withdrawals/surrenders 
    
  d. Loans 
    
  D.    Program Servicing 
    
  1. Provide periodic reports on program and policy financial status. 
    
  2. Provide information for possible program modifications. 
    
  3. Provide ongoing program coordination. 
    
  4. Compile updated program data with assistance from Policyholder. 
    
  a. New participants 
    
  b. Terminations 
    
  c. Retirees 
    
  d. Deaths 
    
  5. Determine current and ongoing funding requirements. 
    
  6. Assist with enrollment of new participants. 
    
  7. Prepare detailed annual reviews of program experience to include: 
    
  a. Corporate composite projections 
    
  b. Program participant census including insurance amount 
    
  8. Compile composite billing for program. 
    
  9. Timely provide assistance to accountants and auditors for reporting program transactions on financial statements and or tax return and other reports or analyses as reasonably required from time to time by Policyholder. 
    
  10. Advise the Policyholder of transactions necessary or desirable to meet program goals and commitments. 
    
  11. Execute quarterly social security sweeps. 
    
  12. Annually determine and provide to Policyholder the amount of imputed taxable income for each participant. 

13. Conduct annual performance review. 
    
  E.    Performance Criteria 
    
  Carrier's enhanced policy administration will be subject to performance criteria mutually agreed by Carrier and Policyholder from time to time. 
    
  F.    Termination of Enhanced Policy Administration 
    
  Policyholder may terminate Carrier's enhanced policy administration at any time on written notice. 
    
  Policy Expenses 
    
    Front End Load Charges 
    
  1.    State Premium Tax - state premium tax will be handled as a pass-through. Taxes will be assessed based upon the Insureds' state of residence as of the date of issue of the Policy. 
    
  2.    Policy DAC Tax -1.20% 
    
  3.    Other Charge - if enhanced policy administration is in effect, a one time set-up charge of $100,000 in the aggregate for all Policies in the program, in the first policy year. 
    
    Mortality and Expense (M E) Charge 
    
  The M E risk charge is assessed against the average monthly value of the total policy cash value in all separate accounts and is deducted monthly. The following M E risk charge is based upon a 4-tier sliding scale and applies for any period when enhanced policy administration is in effect: 

Under the foregoing schedule, Carrier will not take into consideration the combined assets in both policies (VEBA Plan and the Split Dollar Plan) for purposes of calculating the monthly M E expenses for this Policy. Carrier would, however, take the assets under this Policy into consideration when determining the M E under the VEBA policy. 
    
  For any period when enhanced policy administration is not in effect, the M E risk charge is as follows: 

Under this schedule, Carrier will take into consideration the combined assets on both policies (VEBA Plan and the Split Dollar Plan) in calculating the monthly M E risk charge for both policies. 
    
    Investment Management Fees 
    
  Investment management fees for each separate account are assessed against the average monthly value of the policy cash value in a separate account. In calculating the monthly fee per separate account Carrier will take into consideration the combined assets in both policies (VEBA Plan and the Split Dollar Plan) which are invested in the same separate account(s). The investment management fees for the current commingled separate accounts can be found in the Offering Memorandum. 

Custody and Securities Accounting/Valuation 
    
  There are no separate charges for these functions for the commingled separate accounts. However, there are pass through charges for these functions for single customer accounts. 
    
    Policy Administration Charge 
    
  Currently, and as illustrated, the Policy Administration Charge is a per insured life charge of $5.00 per month in all policy years. The current charge may be reduced by the Carrier from time to time, and reductions in the Carrier's costs incurred to service the Policy will be commensurately reflected in the current charge. The guaranteed maximum monthly charge for administration is $5.00 per insured. 
    
  Changes in Pricing for Other Than the Cost of Insurance Charges 
    
  Carrier will not change the charges or fees related to factors under its control. Changes based on external factors may be reflected in the Policy. 
    
  For purposes of this paragraph, Carrier's profit goals and the contribution of Specialized Benefit Resources organization to overhead are not external factors. The external factors that may be reflected include (i) Federal and State legislation and state insurance statutory and regulatory changes, and (ii) after the first three policy years, increase in investment management, custody and securities accounting/valuation charges pertaining to P G single-customer accounts by the providers of these services. 
    
  Any increase in price due to external factors will be documented and the price increase, if appropriate, will be only to recover the increased cost of the Carrier. With respect to any increase in charges pursuant to this section, P G may audit the relevant records of Metropolitan pursuant to an appropriate nondisclosure document. 
    
  Governing Law 
    
  The validity, construction, interpretation, and effect of this memorandum of understanding and the Policy shall be governed by the laws of the state of Ohio, without regard to Ohio's choice of law rules. 
    
  Changes to this Memorandum 
    
  Except with respect to changes mandated by state and federal law and as otherwise specifically provided in this Memorandum or the Policy, this Memorandum may be changed only by mutual agreement among the affected parties. 
    
  Notices 
    
  Unless and until the parties give written notice otherwise, whenever this Memorandum provides for notices or consents in writing to be given by one of the parties hereto to the other, such notices or consent will be given when addressed and delivered to the following or their successors: 

All such notices or consents must be sent by U.S. Certified Mail, Return Receipt Requested. 
    
  Agreed: 
    
                       THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 
      
    METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 

By: 
     /s/ C. S. Clark 
      
    By: 
     /s/ John J. Ryan 

Group Manager Global Pensions 

Vice President 
        
    (Title) 

(Title) 

C.S. Clark 

John J. Ryan 
        
    (Print or Type Name) 

(Print of Type Name) 

Dec. 30, 1997 

Dec. 30, 1997 
        
    (Date) 

(Date) 

AMENDMENT TO MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 
    
  Any references to the Cost of Tenn Insurance charges in the Memorandum of Understanding dated December 30, 1997 should be amended to read Carrier's current Corporate Universal Life Guaranteed Issue, Unisex, Unismoke rates. 
    
  Agreed: 
    
  THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY        METROPOLITAN LIFE     INSURANCE COMPANY 
    
  March 30, 1998 

AMENDMENT TO MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 
    
  The following amends the Memorandum of Understanding between The Procter   Gamble Company as policyholder ( Policyholder ) and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( Carrier ) dated December 30, 1997, as amended March 30, 1998. 
    
  All defined terms in this Amendment have the same meaning as in the Memorandum of Understanding. 
    
  Underwriting   -   this section is removed in its entirety from the Memorandum of Understanding and is substituted as follows: 
    
  New Participants 
  New participants eligible for insurance on or after January 1, 2009 ( New Participants ) will be covered under Group Policy 191526-G (the  New Policy ). New Participants will be subject to the following  Active at Work  criteria: 

not been absent from work due to illness or medical treatment for a period of more than 5 consecutive days in the last 3 months; and 
                
    are actively at work, full time performing all duties of regular occupation, at customary place of employment. 
       
  The guaranteed issue limit upon entry into the plan by New Participants will be $2 million of Specified Face Amount. 
    
  Increases in Specified Face Amounts 
  Based upon current plan design and consistent with our underwriting criteria since 2002, the Specified Face Amounts may be increased without additional underwriting: 

For Active Employees, by up to 25% per year (any unused portion will not be cumulative) to reflect compensation increases, promotional increases and corporate cost recovery amounts. 
                
    For Retired Employees, by up to 25% per year (any unused portion will not be cumulative) to reflect corporate cost recovery amounts. 
                
    For Active and Retired Employees whose compensation is not denominated in U.S. dollar, the Specified Face Amounts may be adjusted to reflect the foreign exchange rate of their home currency. 
       
  Increases in Specified Face Amount issued on a Guaranteed Issue basis will be allowed up to maximum total coverage of $5,000,000. For Active Employees, these Guaranteed Issue increases will be applicable so long as the insured meets the  Active at Work  criteria described under New Participants and is still eligible for the plan and the plan is still in effect. For Retired Employees, these Guaranteed Issue increases will be applicable if the insured is still eligible for the plan and the plan is still in effect. For the Retired Employees, these Guaranteed Issue increases are not subject to the  Active at Work  criteria described under New Participants. 
    
  Annual increases in excess of 25% will require documentation explaining the reason for the increase, in a letter endorsed by a representative of the company who has been designated by a Procter   Gamble Company Officer as an authorized signor for such purposes, for review and consideration by MetLife's underwriters and may require supporting evidence of insurability. These types of increases are subject to the Carrier's current underwriting requirements. In no instance may the total coverage in force exceed $5,000,000. 
    
  Carrier will not deny claims by reason of suicide exclusion provision of the Policy. Carrier acknowledges, accepts and agrees to be bound by consents to insurance, beneficiary designations and assignments in effect under Policyholders executive life insurance program. 
    
  2.   Cost of Term Insurance 
  The Cost of Term Insurance charges ( COI ) for all participants under the New Policy (meeting the  Active at Work  requirements) will be based on 100% of Carrier's current Corporate Universal Life Guaranteed Issue, Unisex, Unismoke rates. The guaranteed maximum COI under the New Policy will never exceed those based on the 

2001 CSO (60) Composite U ALB Table. 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY        METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 

2009 Policy 
    
  Policyholder: The Procter   Gamble Company 
  Group Policy No: 191526-G 
  Date of Issue: January 30, 2009 
    
  In consideration of the application of the Policyholder and the payment of contributions as provided herein, 
    
  Metlife 
  Metropolitan Life Insurance Company 
  New York, New York 10166 
  (Herein called MetLife) 
    
  certifies that the benefits as described herein are provided under and subject to the terms and provisions of this Policy. The Schedule of Exhibits sets forth each Exhibit, which is to be attached to and made a part of this Policy. 
    
                      /s/ Gwenn L. Carr 
      
     /s/ Robert Henrikson 
      
       Vice-President and Secretary 
      
     President and Chief Executive Officer 

Flexible Premium Group Variable Life Insurance Policy 
  NON-DIVIDEND PAYING 
  THE BENEFITS IN THIS POLICY ARE ON A VARIABLE BASIS. 
  THE AMOUNT OR DURATION OF THE DEATH BENEFIT MAY BE FIXED OR VARIABLE UNDER SPECIFIED CONDITIONS. 
    
  CASH VALUES MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE EXPERIENCE OF THE SEPARATE ACCOUNTS. 
    
  THE DEATH BENEFIT APPLICABLE TO EACH EMPLOYEE COVERED HEREIN MAY BE DETERMINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 12 OF THIS POLICY. 
    
  Section 1. DEFINITIONS 
  Section 2. ELIGIBILITY AND EFFECTIVE DATES OF INSURANCE 
  A. ELIGIBILITY FOR INSURANCE 
  B. EFFECTIVE DATES OF INSURANCE 
  Section 3. PLAN DEDUCTIONS 
  Section 4. INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES 
  Section 5. MORTALITY AND EXPENSE RISK CHARGE 
  Section 6. COST OF TERM INSURANCE 
  Section 7. RETROSPECTIVE DEDUCTIONS 
  Section 8. CONTRIBUTION PAYMENTS 
  Section 9. FAILURE OF THE POLICYHOLDER TO MAKE CONTRIBUTION PAYMENTS 
  Section 10. FIXED ACCOUNT 
  A. VALUE 
  B. INTEREST RATE 
  Section 11. SEPARATE ACCOUNTS 
  A. DESCRIPTION 
  B. VALUE 
  Section 12. RIGHT TO CHANGE ALLOCATION 
  Section 13. DEATH BENEFIT 
  A. DESCRIPTION 
  B. MINIMUM DEATH BENEFIT 
  Section 14. PAYMENTS DURING AN EMPLOYEE'S LIFETIME 
  A. MATURITY DATE 
  B. PARTIAL CASH WITHDRAWAL 

C. LOAN 
  D. LOAN REPAYMENT 
  E. EFFECT OF A LOAN ON THE CASH SURRENDER VALUE 
  F. DEFERMENT 
  G. RESTRICTIONS ON ACCOUNT REDUCTIONS 
  Section 15. POLICYHOLDER'S GENERAL RIGHTS 
  Section 16. RECORDS TO BE MAINTAINED 
  Section 17. INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED 
  Section 18. ENTIRE CONTRACT 
  Section 19. INCONTESTABILITY; STATEMENTS 
  Section 20. MISSTATEMENT OF AGE 
  Section 21. CHANGES IN THE POLICY 
  Section 22. CHANGES IN POLICY COST FACTORS 
  Section 23. REPORTS 
  Section 24. RIGHT TO CHANGE THIS POLICY 
  Section 25. TERMINATION OF AN EMPLOYEE'S COVERAGE 
  Section 26. DISCONTINUANCE OF THE POLICY 
  Section 27. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS 
  SCHEDULE OF EXHIBITS 

Section 1. DEFINITIONS 
    
  1. "Policyholder" is as shown on the first page of this Group Policy. 
    
  2. "Employer" is as shown in the Policy Rider attached. 
    
  3. "This Plan" means the group insurance plan for insured Employees of the Employer under this Group Policy. 
    
  4. "Employee" means a person who is in a class designated as eligible for insurance as described in the Policy Rider attached to this Group Policy as a part hereof. 
    
  5. "Specified Face Amount of Insurance" for each Employee is the amount of insurance as filed with the records for the insurance provided under this Group Policy. 
    
  6. "Anniversary Date" is the date indicated in the Policy Rider attached. 
    
  7. "Monthly Date" means a monthly anniversary date of the Anniversary Date. 
    
  8. "Net Contribution" means the contribution received by MetLife on behalf of Employees who are covered under This Plan minus any Front End Load Charge indicated in the Policy Rider attached. The Net Contribution is allocated by the Policyholder to either the Fixed Account, the Separate Account(s), or a combination thereof. 
    
  9. "Fixed Account" is the account under this Group Policy to which MetLife will add the payments that the Policyholder allocates thereto. The Fixed Account is part of MetLife's general account. 
    
  10. "Separate Account(s)" as described in the Exhibits attached are the investment account(s) under this Group Policy to which MetLife will add the payments that the Policyholder allocates thereto. 
    
  11. "Variable Account" is the account under this Group Policy that consists of the Separate Account(s) that are described in the Exhibits attached. 
    
  12. "Policy Loan Account" is the account to which MetLife will transfer the amount of any policy loan from the Fixed Account and any Separate Account(s). 
    
  13. "Business Day" means a day on which both the New York Stock Exchange and MetLife's Home Office are open for business. 
    
  14. "Plan Year" means a period from one Anniversary Date to the following Anniversary Date. 
    
  15. "Policy Cash Value" is the sum of: (a) the total cash value in the Fixed Account; (b) the total cash value in the Variable Account; and the total cash value in the Policy Loan Account. 
    
  16. "Cash Surrender Value" is the Policy Cash Value, less any Loan and Loan Interest. 
    
  17. "Loan and Loan Interest" means the total amount of money borrowed by the Policyholder and the interest due on that borrowed amount. 
    
  18. "Account Value" means the part of the Policy Cash Value applicable to an Employee. 
    
  19. "Loan Amount" means the part of the Loan and Loan Interest applicable to an Employee. 
    
  20. "Cash Amount" means the part of a Cash Withdrawal applicable to an Employee. 
    
  21. "Cash Withdrawal" means a full or partial withdrawal of the Cash Surrender Value by the Policyholder. 

Section 2. ELIGIBILITY AND EFFECTIVE DATES OF INSURANCE 
    
  A. ELIGIBILITY FOR INSURANCE 
    
  Each Employee will be eligible for insurance in accordance with the requirements of the Employer. In no event will any Employee become eligible for insurance prior to the Date of Issue. 
    
  B. EFFECTIVE DATES OF INSURANCE 
    
  Active Work Requirement 
    
  The Employee must be Actively at Work in the employ of the Employer in order for the insurance to be effective. 
    
  "Actively at Work" means that the Employee is actively at work and physically able to perform all the duties of his occupation. 
    
  MetLife reserves the right to change this provision by giving written notice of such change to the Policyholder at least 31 days prior to the date such change is to become effective. 
    
  If retirees of an Employer are insured under this Group Policy, the above active work requirement will not apply to such retirees. 
    
  Once a year on the Anniversary Date, the Policyholder may add additional Employees to This Plan. These employees must be Actively at Work on such Anniversary Date. 
    
  Section 3. PLAN DEDUCTIONS 
    
  Plan Deductions are made from each Employee's Account Value for: 
    
  the Investment Management Fees, if applicable (see Investment Management Fees below); 
    
  the Mortality and Expense Risk Charge, if applicable (see Mortality and Expense Risk Charge below); 
    
  the Administration Charge indicated in the Policy Rider attached; 
    
  the Cost of Term Insurance for each Employee (See Cost of Term Insurance below); and 
    
  the Retrospective Deduction (See Retrospective Deductions below); for the insurance applicable to each of the Employees insured under This Plan. 
    
  The Plan Deductions stated above will be charged proportionately to the Fixed Account and/or the Separate Account(s) in which the Policyholder participates. Plan Deductions are made periodically. The Mode of Plan Deduction indicated in the Policy Rider attached will be used. 
    
  Section 4. INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES 
    
  If the Policyholder participates in one or more Separate Accounts an Investment Management Fee will be charged based upon the Policyholder's participation in the particular Separate Account(s). 
  The Investment Management Fees are indicated in the Policy Rider attached. 
    
  This fee will be deducted periodically by canceling investment units from the Separate Account(s) in which the Policyholder participates. The Mode of Plan Deduction indicated in the Policy Rider attached will be used. 
    
  Section 5. MORTALITY AND EXPENSE RISK CHARGE 
    
  If the Policyholder participates in one or more Separate Accounts the Mortality and Expense Risk Charge will be charged based upon the gross asset value of the Separate Account(s) in which the Policyholder participates. The Mortality and Expense Risk Charge are indicated in the Policy Rider attached. 

This charge will be deducted periodically by canceling investment units from the Separate Account(s) in which the Policyholder participates. The Mode of Plan Deduction indicated in the Policy Rider attached will be used. 
    
  Section 6. COST OF TERM INSURANCE 
    
  The Cost of Term Insurance on the life of an Employee is equal to the term insurance rate multiplied by each $1,000 of the amount of term insurance for which the Employee is insured. Term insurance rates will be set by MetLife from time to time based on the Employee's age. The Table of Guaranteed Maximum Rates are shown below. The rates charged will never be more than the maximum rates listed in such Table. 
    
  Section 7. RETROSPECTIVE DEDUCTIONS 
    
  If the Plan Deductions for the Cost of Term Insurance for each Employee during a Plan Year, are less than the Charges applicable for that time period, a Retrospective Deduction will be made. The Retrospective Deduction will not be more than the Retrospective Deduction Percentage indicated in the Policy Rider attached multiplied by the Cost of Term Insurance. Charges will be determined by Metropolitan and will include items such as claims paid from Metropolitan's funds (including interest thereon), open and unreported claim reserves, approved claim reserves, taxes, pooling, expenses, cash flow and risk charges. 
    
  Section 8. CONTRIBUTION PAYMENTS 
    
  Planned Contributions as shown in the Policy Rider attached will be payable to MetLife, according to a mode of contribution payments that has been selected by the Policyholder. 
    
  The amount of the Planned Contributions may be changed by the Policyholder from time to time. 
    
  The Policyholder may skip Planned Contribution payments or change their frequency and amount if the Cash Surrender Value is large enough to pay the next Plan Deduction due. 
    
  LIMITS 
  The Policyholder's first contribution may not be less than the Planned Contribution. 
    
  Any contribution that is not a Planned Contribution is an Unplanned Contribution. Unplanned Contributions by the Policyholder cannot be less than the Minimum Unplanned Contribution indicated in the Policy Rider attached. 
    
  MetLife reserves the right not to accept an Unplanned Contribution to the Fixed Account for up to 6 months from the date a partial Cash Withdrawal is paid from the Fixed Account to the Policyholder; however MetLife will accept an Unplanned Contribution if such Contribution is needed to keep the insurance coverage in force. See the Partial Cash Withdrawal provision. 
    
  Section 9.     FAILURE OF THE POLICYHOLDER TO MAKE CONTRIBUTION PAYMENTS 
    
  If an Employee's Account Value reduced by any Loan Amount is less than the Plan Deduction due for that Employee, there will be a grace period of 60 days after such date to pay an amount that will cover the Plan Deduction due for that Employee. MetLife will send the Policyholder a notice at the start of the grace period. 
    
  If MetLife does not receive a sufficient amount by the end of the grace period, the insurance applicable to such Employee will terminate. If such Employee dies during the grace period, MetLife will pay the Death Benefit applicable to such Employee minus (i) the Loan Amount for such Employee and (ii) the due and unpaid Plan Deduction applicable to such Employee. 
    
  If the Cash Surrender Value is less than the Plan Deduction due, there will be a grace period of 60 days after such date to pay an amount that will cover the Plan Deduction due. MetLife will send the Policyholder a notice at the start of the grace period. 
    
  If MetLife does not receive a sufficient amount by the end of the grace period, MetLife may discontinue this Group Policy on or after the last day of the grace period. (See the Discontinuance of the Policy provision.) If an insured Employee dies during the grace period, MetLife will pay the Death Benefit minus (i) the Loan Amount for such Employee and (ii) the due and unpaid Plan Deduction applicable to all Employees. 

Section 10.     FIXED ACCOUNT 
  A.   VALUE 
    
  On the Date of Issue the cash value in the Fixed Account applicable to an Employee covered under This Plan is equal to: 
    
  1. The portion of the Net Contributions applicable to such Employee which have been paid by the Policyholder and allocated to the Fixed Account; 
  MINUS 
    
  2. The portion of the Plan Deduction applicable to such Employee charged to the Fixed Account on the Date of Issue. 
    
  The cash value in the Fixed Account applicable to an Employee covered under This Plan on any day after the Date of Issue is equal to: 
    
  1. The portion of the cash value in the Fixed Account applicable to such Employee on the preceding day, with interest on such  
    
  PLUS 
    
  2. Any portion of the Net Contributions applicable to such Employee paid and allocated to the Fixed Account on that day; 
    
  PLUS 
    
  3. Any amounts applicable to such Employee transferred by the Policyholder from the Variable Account to the Fixed Account on that day; 
    
  PLUS 
    
  4. Any loan repayments applicable to such Employee allocated by the Policyholder to the Fixed Account on that day; 
    
  PLUS 
    
  5. That portion of any interest credited on outstanding loans taken by the Policyholder applicable to such Employee which is allocated to the Fixed Account on that day; 
    
  MINUS 
    
  6. Any amounts applicable to such Employee transferred by the Policyholder from the Fixed Account to the Variable Account on that day; 
    
  MINUS 
    
  7. Any Cash Withdrawals applicable to such Employee made by the Policyholder from the Fixed Account on that day; 
    
  MINUS 
    
  8. Any amounts applicable to such Employee transferred from the Fixed Account to the Policy Loan Account on that day; 
    
  MINUS 
    
  9. Any Plan Deductions applicable to such Employee which are charged to the Fixed Account on that day. 
    
  The cash value in the Fixed Account is equal to the sum of the cash values in the Fixed Account applicable to each Employee covered under This Plan Minus any Death Benefits paid to the Policyholder (see the Death Benefit provision). 

B. INTEREST RATE 
    
  The Guaranteed Interest Rate for the Fixed Account is at the effective rate of 3% a year. Interest will be credited to the Fixed Account in the manner and at the rates MetLife sets from time to time. Any rates MetLife sets will never be less than the Guaranteed Interest Rate. 
    
  Section 11. SEPARATE ACCOUNTS 
    
  A. DESCRIPTION 
    
  Separate Accounts are investment accounts established and maintained by MetLife, separate from MetLife's general account and other separate investment accounts. 
    
  MetLife owns the assets in the Separate Accounts. Assets equal to the reserves and other liabilities of the Separate Accounts will not be charged with liabilities that arise from any other business MetLife conducts. MetLife may from time to time transfer to its general account cash in excess of such reserves and liabilities. 
    
  Income and realized and unrealized gains and losses from assets in the Separate Accounts are credited to or charged against the Separate Accounts without regard to MetLife's other income, gains or losses. 
    
  The Separate Accounts may be valued at the end of each Business Day or less frequently. In any event, a valuation will be determined as described in the Exhibits attached to this Group Policy. 
    
  The Separate Accounts available on the Date of Issue are described in the Exhibits attached as of such date. The initial Separate Account(s) selected by the Policyholder are shown in the Policy Rider attached. MetLife may from time to time make other Separate Accounts available to the Policyholder. MetLife will provide the Policyholder with written notice of all material details including investment objectives and all charges. 
    
  Each Separate Account is established and maintained pursuant to the Insurance Law of the State of New York. 
    
  B. VALUE 
    
  The total cash value in the Variable Account is equal to the sum of the Policyholder's Cash Value in each of the Separate Accounts. 
    
  The Policyholder's Cash Value in a Separate Account will be determined by multiplying the number of units owned by the Policyholder in such Separate Account by the unit value of such Separate Account. The unit value of the Separate Account is determined as described in the Exhibits attached to this Group Policy. 
    
  Section 12.     RIGHT TO CHANGE ALLOCATION 
    
  The Policyholder can change the allocation of future Net Contributions among the Fixed Account and/or Separate Account(s). The Policyholder must allocate a minimum amount of Net Contributions to each alternative chosen. Such minimum amount is on file with the records for the insurance provided under this Group Policy. Percentages must be in whole numbers. For example, 33 1/3% may not be chosen. The Policyholder must notify MetLife in writing of a change in the allocation percentages. The change will take effect on the date MetLife receives written notice from the Policyholder at MetLife's Home Office or Administrative Office. 
    
  The Policyholder may also change the allocation of the Policy Cash Value. To do this, the Policyholder may transfer amounts among the Fixed Account and/or the Separate Account(s) up to four times in a Plan Year without paying a transfer fee. Any additional transfer will be subject to the Transfer Charge indicated in the Policy Rider attached. 
    
  Transfers must be in either dollar amounts or a percentage in whole numbers. The minimum amount that may be transferred is the amount indicated in the Policy Rider attached or, if less, the Cash Value in a Separate Account or the Cash Value in the Fixed Account. 
    
  Transfers to or from any part of the Variable Account are subject to the following conditions: 
    
  (1) Unless MetLife agrees otherwise, no transfer will be made sooner than 10 Business Days after the date MetLife receives the written request of transfer, or within 10 Business Days after any prior transfer. 

(2) Any transfer to or from a Separate Account is subject to any restrictions set out in the applicable Separate Account Exhibit relating to additions thereto or withdrawals there from. 
    
  (3) If in MetLife's reasonable judgment any transfer would involve the sale of Separate Account assets for which there is no readily available market, MetLife will defer the withdrawal of all or part of the transfer amount for such period as it deems necessary. 
    
  (4) Any transfer to or from any part of the Variable Account will be made in cash. 
    
  (5) No transfer to or from any part of the Variable Account will be made on or after the Discontinuance of the Policy. (See the Discontinuance of the Policy provision.) 
    
  Transfers may be subject to certain restrictions. (See the Restrictions on Reductions in the Fixed Account provision .) 
    
  Section 13. DEATH BENEFIT 
    
  A. DESCRIPTION 
    
  When MetLife receives satisfactory proof that an Employee whose life is insured under the Group Policy has died, MetLife will pay to the Policyholder: 
    
  The Death Benefit in effect on the life of such Employee at the time of death; 
    
  MINUS 
    
  The Loan Amount. 
    
  The amount of Death Benefit on the life of an Employee is the Specified Face Amount of Insurance as filed with the records for insurance provided under this Group Policy, less any Cash Amount taken by the Policyholder. See the Partial Cash Withdrawal provision. The Death Benefit is composed of two parts - Term Insurance and an Account Value. The amount of Term Insurance varies depending upon the amount of the Account Value. The amount of Term Insurance is determined by subtracting the amount of the Account Value from the amount of Death Benefit. 
    
  B.     MINIMUM DEATH BENEFIT 
    
  Not withstanding any other provision of the Policy, the amount to be paid as a Death Benefit on each insured's life shall never be less than an amount which would allow the portion of the policy attributable to such insured life, and the entire Policy, to be treated as life insurance for federal income tax purposes. In no event will the Death Benefit be less than the amount calculated by multiplying the Account Value applicable to the deceased Employee by the applicable Minimum Death Benefit Factor listed in Section 28 of this Group Policy based on the deceased Employee's attained age as of the most recent Anniversary Date. 
    
  Section 14. PAYMENTS DURING AN EMPLOYEE'S LIFETIME 
    
  A. MATURITY DATE 
    
  If an Employee is alive on the Maturity Date as described in the Policy Rider attached, MetLife will pay to the Policyholder the Account Value applicable to such Employee minus any Loan Amount. 
    
  B.     PARTIAL CASH WITHDRAWAL 
    
  The Policyholder may request a partial Cash Withdrawal. Only four partial Cash Withdrawals each Plan Year may be taken without paying a fee. Any additional partial withdrawals will be subject to the Partial Cash Withdrawal Charge indicated in the Policy Rider attached. Each partial Cash Withdrawal must be at least the Minimum Partial Cash Withdrawal indicated in the Policy Rider attached. The available Cash Surrender Value will be determined as of the date MetLife receives the request. When a partial Cash Withdrawal is made, it will reduce the Cash Surrender Value by the amount of the partial Cash Withdrawal. The withdrawal will be allocated from the Fixed Account and/or any Separate Account(s) in accordance with the Policyholder's request. If no allocation is made, the withdrawal will be allocated proportionately from the Fixed Account and/or any Separate Account(s). 

The Maximum Partial Cash Withdrawal during the first Plan Year is the Policyholder's current Cash Surrender Value less the Plan Deduction due in the first Plan Year. 
    
  The Maximum Partial Cash Withdrawal at any time after the first Plan Year is the current Cash Surrender Value less the Plan Deductions made for the year preceding the last Anniversary Date. 
    
  Cash Withdrawals from the Fixed Account are subject to certain restrictions. (See the Restrictions In The Fixed Account provision.) 
    
  The total Specified Face Amounts of Insurance on the lives of all Employees covered under. 
    
  This Plan will be concurrently reduced by the total of the amounts withdrawn above, proportionately for each such Employee. However, the Policyholder may request that the partial Cash Withdrawal be made on a basis other than proportionately. MetLife will reduce the Account Values of the affected Employees in accordance with the Policyholder's request. If the Policyholder requests that the partial Cash Withdrawal be made other than proportionately for each Employee covered under This Plan, MetLife will charge the Policyholder an administrative fee. 
    
  C.     LOAN 
    
  The Policyholder may take a loan as described below. The maximum amount available is the Cash Surrender Value less the Plan Deductions made for the year preceding the last Anniversary Date (except in the first Plan Year where the Plan Deductions due in the first Plan Year will be used) and less interest on such loan to the next Plan Anniversary Date at the current loan interest rate. The loan must be for at least the Minimum Loan Amount indicated in the Policy Rider attached. 
    
  The loan will be allocated from the Fixed Account and/or the Separate Account(s) in accordance with the Policyholder's request. If no allocation is made, the loan will be allocated proportionately from the Fixed Account and/or the Separate Account(s). Loans from the Fixed Account are subject to certain restrictions. (See the Restrictions On Reductions in the Fixed Account provision.) The Policyholder may request that the loan be made on a basis other than proportionately. MetLife will reduce the Account Values of the affected Employees in accordance with the Policyholder's request. If the Policyholder requests that the loan be made other than proportionately for each Employee covered under This Plan, MetLife may charge the Policyholder an administrative fee. 
    
  Loan interest is charged at an adjustable interest rate. This rate will never be more than the maximum permitted by law and will not change more often than once a year on the Anniversary Date. 
    
  The rate of interest MetLife sets for a Plan Year may not exceed a maximum limit which is the higher of: 
    
  (a) The Published Monthly Average for the calendar month ending 2 months before the Anniversary Date at the beginning of the Plan Year; or 
    
  (b) The Guaranteed Interest Rate, plus 1%. 
    
  The Published Monthly Average means: 
    
  (a) Moody's Corporate Bond Yield Average-Monthly Average Corporates, as published by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to that service; or 
    
  (b) if that average is no longer published, a substantially similar average, established by regulation issued by the insurance supervisory official of the state in which the Group Policy is delivered. 
    
  If the Published Monthly Average rate is erroneously reported, the corrected rate will be used. 
    
  If the maximum limit for a Plan Year is at least 112% higher than the rate set for the previous Plan Year, MetLife may increase the rate to no more than that limit. If the maximum limit for a Plan Year is at least 1/2% lower than the rate set for the previous Plan Year, MetLife will reduce the rate to at least that limit. 
    
  When a loan is made, the Policyholder will be informed of the initial rate applicable to that loan. Advance notice will be given to the Policyholder if there is to be an increase in the rate applicable to an existing loan. 

Loan interest is due on each Anniversary Date. Interest not paid when due will be deducted proportionately from the Cash Surrender Value in the Fixed Account and/or the Separate Account(s) and will be transferred to the Policy Loan Account. The amount transferred will be treated as an increase to the loan and will be subject to applicable interest rates. 
    
  D.     LOAN REPAYMENT 
    
  The Policyholder may repay all or part (but not less than the Minimum Loan Repayment indicated in the Policy Rider attached) of a loan while the insurance is in force. MetLife must be notified if the payment is intended as a loan repayment. Otherwise, it will be treated as a Contribution. Loan repayments on loans made on a proportionate basis will be allocated in the same manner as Net Contributions. Loan repayments on loans made on other than a proportionate basis will be allocated as directed by the Policyholder. 
    
  Failure to repay a loan or to pay loan interest will not result in Discontinuance Of The Policy unless the Cash Surrender Value is less than the Plan Deduction due. In that case, the provisions in Failure Of The Policyholder To Make Contribution Payments will apply. 
    
  If a loan amount is deducted from the Fixed and Separate Accounts applicable to a specific Employee, failure to repay the loan or loan interest will not result in the termination of such Employee's coverage unless the Cash Surrender Value applicable to such Employee is less than the Plan Deduction due for that Employee. 
    
  E.     EFFECT OF A LOAN ON THE CASH SURRENDER VALUE 
    
  When the Policyholder takes a loan, the Cash Surrender Value in the Separate Account(s) equal to the portion of the policy loan allocated to such Separate Account(s), will be transferred to the Policy Loan Account. The Cash Surrender Value in the Fixed Account equal to the portion of the policy loan allocated to that Account will also be transferred to the Policy Loan Account. A proportionate amount of the loan will be applicable to the Fixed and Separate of each Employee who is covered under This Plan. If a loan amount is deducted from the Fixed and Separate Accounts of a specific Employee, the amount of the policy loan applicable to such Employee will be transferred to the Policy Loan Account of that Employee. Amounts in the Policy Loan Account will be credited with interest at the rate MetLife sets. That rate will be based on the rate charged on policy loans, less expenses for such loans, but will never be less than the Guaranteed Interest Rate for the Fixed Account. Interest credited to amounts in the Policy Loan Account will be allocated at least once a year among the Fixed Account and the Separate Account(s) in the same proportions as Net Contributions are then being allocated. 
    
  F.     DEFERMENT 
    
  MetLife reserves the right to defer calculation and payment in the following circumstances: 
    
  1. If insurance is in force with a portion of the Cash Surrender Value in a Separate Account, it will generally not be practical to determine the investment experience of such Separate Account during any period when the New York Stock Exchange is closed for trading, or when the Securities and Exchange Commission restricts trading or determines that an emergency exists. In such a case and with respect to such Separate Account, MetLife reserves the right to defer: (a) a change in the allocation among the Separate Accounts; and (b) payment of (i) a Cash Withdrawal, (ii) policy loans and (iii) the Death Benefit. 
    
  2. If insurance is in force with a portion of the Cash Surrender Value in the Fixed Account, MetLife may defer paying a Cash Withdrawal from the Fixed Account for up to 6 months from the date MetLife receives a request for payment. If MetLife delays payment for 30 days or more, interest will be paid at a rate not less than 3% a year. 
    
  3. MetLife may delay making a loan from the Fixed Account for up to 6 months from the date a loan is requested. 
    
  G.     RESTRICTIONS ON ACCOUNT REDUCTIONS 
    
  The maximum reduction in the portion of the Policy Cash Value in the Fixed Account due to any combination of loans, cash withdrawals or transfers by the Policyholder during a Plan Year is limited to the Maximum Fixed Account Reduction Percentage indicated in the Policy Rider multiplied by the Policy Cash Value in the Fixed Account at the beginning of such period; however, a different maximum fixed account reduction percentage may be used if agreed upon by MetLife and the Policyholder. 

Section 15.     POLICYHOLDER'S GENERAL RIGHTS 
    
  These are the Policyholder's general rights with respect to coverage on Employees' lives under the Group Policy, subject to the provisions of this Group Policy: 
    
  (a) Right to discontinue coverage; 
  (b) Right to make Cash Withdrawals; 
  (c) Right to obtain loans; 
  (d) Right to pay contributions; 
  (e) Right to select and to change the allocation of Net Contributions and to transfer the Policy Cash Value between the Fixed Account and the Variable Account. 
    
  Section 16.     RECORDS TO BE MAINTAINED 
    
  Records which relate to the insurance under this Policy will be maintained. Such records will include at least the following: 
    
  (a) The names and ages of all Employees who are insured. 
  (b) The amount of insurance in force on each Employee. 
  (c) The effective date of each Employee's insurance. 
  (d) The effective date of any change in an amount of an Employee's insurance. 
  (e) The Policyholder's allocation of Net Contributions. 
    
  Such records will be maintained by MetLife; the records may, with the consent of MetLife, be maintained by the Policyholder. 
    
  Section 17.     INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED 
    
  The Policyholder will furnish to MetLife all of the information which MetLife may reasonably require with regard to the matters which relate to the insurance. The Policyholder will allow MetLife to inspect all documents, books and records of the Policyholder which relate to the insurance or to the contributions. 
    
  Section 18. ENTIRE CONTRACT 
    
  This Policy including all Policy Riders and Exhibits attached hereto, and the application of the Policyholder constitute the entire contract between the parties. A copy of the application is attached to this Policy. 
    
  Section 19.     INCONTESTABILITY; STATEMENTS 
    
  Any statement made by the Policyholder or by an Employee will be deemed a representation and not a warranty. No such statement will avoid the insurance or reduce the benefits under this Policy or be used in defense to a claim under this Policy unless it is contained in a written application. No such statement of the Policyholder will be used at all after two years from the Date of Issue. 
    
  No such statement made by an Employee which relates to insurability will be used in contesting the validity of the insurance with respect to which such statement was made or to reduce the benefits unless the conditions listed in items (1) and (2) below have been met: 
    
  (1) The statement must be contained in a written application which has been signed by the Employee. 
  (2) A copy of the application has been furnished to the Employee or to the Policyholder. 
    
  No such statement of the Employee will be used at all after such insurance has been in force prior to the contest for a period of two years during the lifetime of the person to whom the statement applies. 
    
  Section 20.     MISSTATEMENT OF AGE 
    
  In the case of the misstatement of the age of an Employee, an adjustment of the Death Benefit will be made, if appropriate. The adjusted Death Benefit will be that which the Plan Deductions paid would have provided at the correct age. 

Section 21.     CHANGES IN THE POLICY 
    
  No change in this Policy will be valid unless it is approved by an authorized officer of MetLife. Each such change must be evidenced by an amendment signed by both the Policyholder and by MetLife or by an endorsement signed by MetLife. 
    
  No agent may make a change in this Policy or waive any of its provisions. 
    
  Section 22.     CHANGES IN POLICY COST FACTORS 
    
  Policy cost factors are interest rates, cost of term insurance rates, expense charges and administrative charges. Changes in policy cost factors will be by class and based on changes in future expectations for such elements as investment earnings, mortality, persistency, expenses and taxes. Any change in policy cost factors will be determined in accordance with procedures and standards on file, if required, with the insurance supervisory official of the jurisdiction in which the Group Policy is delivered. Policy cost factors for in-force insurance coverage will be reviewed at least once every five years to determine whether an adjustment in policy cost factors should be made. 
    
  Section 23. REPORTS 
    
  Each year, MetLife will send the Policyholder a report showing the current death benefit, Cash Surrender Value, and any outstanding policy loans. 
    
  It will also show the amount and type of credits to and deductions from the Cash Surrender Value during the past policy year. 
    
  The report will also include any other information required by the insurance supervisory official of the jurisdiction in which the Group Policy is delivered. 
    
  MetLife will also provide any reports required pursuant to the Federal Securities laws or any regulations thereunder. 
    
  Upon payment of a fee determined by MetLife, the Policyholder may request MetLife to prepare any special reports. 
    
  Section 24. RIGHT TO CHANGE THIS POLICY 
    
  MetLife reserves the right to make changes in this Group Policy in order to continue to qualify this coverage with respect to each Employee as life insurance under the Internal Revenue Code Section 7702 or successor law. MetLife will give the Policyholder written notice of any such change. 
    
  MetLife also reserves the right to make certain changes if, in its judgment, they would best serve the interests of the Policyholder. Any changes will be made only to the extent and in the manner permitted by applicable laws. Also, when required by law, MetLife will obtain approval of the changes from the Policyholder and the approval of any appropriate regulatory authority. 
    
  Examples of the changes MetLife may make include: 
    
  To operate the Separate Accounts in any form permitted by law. 
  To take any action necessary to comply with or obtain and continue any exemptions from the Investment Company Act of 1940. 
  To transfer in cash any assets in a Separate Account to another Separate Account or to one or more Separate Accounts, or to MetLife's general account; or to add, combine, or remove Separate Accounts. 
  To change the way MetLife assesses charges. 
  To make any other necessary technical changes in this Group Policy in order to conform with any action this provision permits MetLife to take. 
    
  If any of these changes result in a material change in the underlying investments of a Separate Account, MetLife will notify the Policyholder of such change. If the Policyholder has funds allocated to that Separate Account, the Policyholder may then make a new choice of Separate Accounts. 

Section 25. TERMINATION OF AN EMPLOYEE'S COVERAGE 
    
  The insurance on the life of an Employee will terminate on the earliest of these dates: 
    
  (a) The date of Discontinuance of the Policy. 
  (b) The date the Employee dies. 
  (c) The Maturity Date as described in the Policy Rider attached. 
  (d) The Monthly Date after the Policyholder requests to terminate the Account Value applicable to that Employee. 
    
  Section 26. DISCONTINUANCE OF THE POLICY 
    
  MetLife will have the right to discontinue this Group Policy at the end of the grace period. (See Failure Of The Policyholder To Make Contribution Payments.) Notice, in writing, that this Policy is to be discontinued must be given to the Policyholder by MetLife. The notice must be given at least sixty days prior to the last day of the grace period. 
    
  The Policyholder will have the right to discontinue this Policy. Notice, in writing, that this Policy is to be discontinued must be given to MetLife by the Policyholder. The notice must be given at least sixty days prior to the date this Policy is to be discontinued. 

If this Policy is discontinued. the Cash Surrender Value minus a pro-rata share of any Plan Deduction which has not been made in the current Plan Year will be payable by MetLife to such Policyholder as follows: 
    
  (a) If any of the Policy Cash Value is in a Separate Account, MetLife will pay the Cash Surrender Value of such Account. If in MetLife's reasonable judgment any such payment would involve the sale of Separate Account assets for which there is then no readily available market, MetLife will defer all or a portion of such payment for such time as it deems necessary. 
    
  (b) If any of the Policy Cash Value is in the Fixed Account, MetLife will pay, over the Cancellation Period indicated in the Policy Rider attached, the Cash Surrender Value divided into equal monthly installments. If the payout is delayed in excess of thirty days, MetLife will credit interest on any unpaid balance at the Payout Interest Rate indicated in the Policy Rider attached. 
    
  The Cash Surrender Value will be determined as of the date this Policy is discontinued. 
    
  Section 27. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS 
    
  None. 

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.5>
 5
 fy171810-kexhibit10x5.htm
 THE P&G 1993 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS' STOCK PLAN

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (10-5) 
    
  The Procter   Gamble 1993 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan 
  (as amended September 10, 2002) 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 1993 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS' 
  STOCK PLAN 
  (as amended September 10, 2002) 
    
  ARTICLE A -- Purpose. 
    
  The purpose of The Procter   Gamble 1993 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan") is to strengthen the alignment of interests between non-employee Directors (hereinafter referred to as "Participants") and the shareholders of The Procter   Gamble Company (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") through the increased ownership of shares of the Company's Common Stock. This will be accomplished by allowing Participants to elect voluntarily to convert a portion or all of their cash fees for services as a Director into Common Stock, by granting Participants a fixed value of shares of Common Stock restricted until retirement (hereinafter referred to as "Retirement Shares") and by granting Participants non-qualified options to purchase shares of Common Stock (hereinafter referred to as "Stock Options"). 
    
  ARTICLE B -- Administration. 
    
  1.    The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (hereinafter referred to as the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company (hereinafter referred to as the "Board"), or such other committee as may be designated by the Board. The Committee shall consist of not less than three (3) members of the Board who are  Non-Employee Directors  as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor rule or definition adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, to be appointed by the Board from time to time and to serve at the discretion of the Board. 
    
  2.    It shall be the duty of the Committee to administer this Plan in accordance with its provisions and to make such recommendations of amendments or otherwise as it deems necessary or appropriate. A decision by a majority of the Committee shall govern all actions of the Committee. 
    
  3.    Subject to the express provisions of this Plan, the Committee shall have authority to allow Participants the right to elect to receive fees for services as a director in either cash or an equivalent amount of whole shares of Common Stock of the Company, or partly in cash and partly in whole shares of the Common Stock of the Company, subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine. The Committee also has the authority to make all other determinations it deems necessary or advisable for administering this Plan. 
    
  4.    The Committee may establish from time to time such regulations, provisions, and procedures within the terms of this Plan as, in its opinion, may be advisable in the administration of this Plan. 
    
  5.    The Committee may designate the Secretary of the Company or other employees of the Company to assist the Committee in the administration of this Plan and may grant authority to such persons to execute documents on behalf of the Committee. 
    
  ARTICLE C -- Participation. 
    
  Participation in the Plan shall be limited to all non-employee Directors of the Company. 
    
  ARTICLE D -- Limitation on Number of Shares for the Plan. 
    
  The total number of shares of Common Stock of the Company that may be awarded each year shall not exceed 50,000 shares. 
    
  ARTICLE E -- Shares Subject to Use Under the Plan. 
    
  Shares of Common Stock to be awarded under the terms of this Plan shall be treasury shares. 
    
  ARTICLE F -- Retirement Shares. 
    
  1.    On the first business day in January, each Participant shall receive Retirement Shares with a fair market value of $45,000 on the date of grant. 
    
  2.    All shares awarded under this Article shall be valued as set forth in Article I. 

ARTICLE G -- Stock Options. 
    
  1.    The Committee may, from time to time, grant Participants a Stock Option to purchase shares of Common Stock having an exercise price of one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of the grant. 
    
  2.    The Stock Options shall have a term of ten (10) years from the date of grant, subject to earlier termination as provided herein, and shall be exercisable 100% three (3) years from the date of grant, except in the case of death, in which case the Stock Options shall be immediately exercisable. 
    
  3.    Stock Options are not transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Legatees, distributees and duly appointed executors and administrators of the estate of a deceased Participant shall have the right to exercise such Stock Options at any time prior to the expiration date of the Stock Options. 
    
  4.    If a Participant ceases to be a Director while holding unexercised Stock Options, such stock options are then void, except in the case of (i) death, (ii) disability, (iii) retirement at the end of a term, (iv) retirement after attaining the age of sixty-nine (69), (v) resignation from the Board following the Participant's retirement from a principal employer under the terms of an appropriate retirement plan or (vi) resignation from the Board for reasons of the antitrust laws or the conflict of interest, corporate governance or continued service policies. 
    
  5.    Upon the exercise of a Stock Option, payment in full of the exercise price shall be made by the Participant. The exercise price may be paid for by the Participant either in cash, shares of the Common Stock of the Company to be valued at their fair market value on the date of exercise, or a combination thereof. 
    
  ARTICLE H -- Adjustments. 
    
  In the event of any future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification, distribution, spin-off or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common Stock of the Company occuring after the date of approval of the Plan by the Company's shareholders, (i) the amount of shares authorized to be issued under the Plan and (ii) the number of shares and/or the exercise prices covered by outstanding stock options and stock appreciation rights shall be adjusted appropriately and equitably to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights under the Plan. Following any such change, the term "Common Stock" shall be deemed to refer to such class of shares or other securities as may be applicable. 
    
  ARTICLE I -- Transfer of Shares. 
    
  1.    The Committee may transfer Common Stock of the Company under the Plan subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine. The conditions and restrictions may vary from time to time and may be set forth in agreements between the Company and the Participant or in the awards of stock to them, all as the Committee determines. 
    
  2.    The shares awarded shall be valued at the average of the high and low quotations for Common Stock of the Company on the New York Stock Exchange on the day of the transfer to a Participant. All shares awarded shall be full shares, rounded up to the nearest whole share. 
    
  ARTICLE J -- Additional Provisions. 
    
  1.    The Board may, at any time, repeal this Plan or may amend it from time to time except that no such amendment may amend this paragraph, increase the annual aggregate number of shares subject to this Plan, or alter the persons eligible to participate in this Plan. The Participants and the Company shall be bound by any such amendments as of their effective dates, but if any outstanding awards are affected, notice thereof shall be given to the holders of such awards and such amendments shall not be applicable to such holder without his or her written consent. If this Plan is repealed in its entirety, all theretofore awarded shares subject to conditions or restrictions transferred pursuant to this Plan shall continue to be subject to such conditions or restrictions. 
    
  2.    Every recipient of shares pursuant to this Plan shall be bound by the terms and provisions of this Plan and of the transfer of shares agreement referable thereto, and the acceptance of any transfer of shares pursuant to this Plan shall constitute a binding agreement between the recipient and the Company. 
    
  3.    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, stock options and stock appreciation rights granted hereunder shall vest immediately and any conditions or restrictions on Common Stock shall lapse upon a  Change in Control.  A  Change in Control  shall mean the occurrence of any of the following: 

(a) 
    An acquisition (other than directly from the Company) of any voting securities of the Company (the "Voting Securities") by any "Person" (as the term person is used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act), immediately after which such Person has "Beneficial Ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of twenty percent (20%) or more of the then outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities;   provided, however,   in determining whether a Change in Control has occurred pursuant to this Section 4(a), Shares or Voting Securities which are acquired in a "Non-Control Acquisition" (as hereinafter defined) shall not constitute an acquisition which would cause a Change in Control. A "Non-Control Acquisition" shall mean an acquisition by (i) an employee benefit plan (or a trust forming a part thereof) maintained by (A) the Company or (B) any corporation or other Person of which a majority of its voting power or its voting equity securities or equity interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company (for purposes of this definition, a "Related Entity"), (ii) the Company or any Related Entity, or (iii) any Person in connection with a "Non-Control Transaction" (as hereinafter defined); 
       
           (b) 
    The individuals who, as of July 11, 2000 are members of the Board (the "Incumbent Board"), cease for any reason to constitute at least half of the members of the Board; or, following a Merger (as hereinafter defined) which results in a Parent Corporation (as hereinafter defined), the board of directors of the ultimate Parent Corporation;   provided, however  , that if the election, or nomination for election by the Company's common stockholders, of any new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Board, such new director shall, for purposes of this Plan, be considered as a member of the Incumbent Board;   provided further, however  , that no individual shall be considered a member of the Incumbent Board if such individual initially assumed office as a result of either an actual or threatened "Election Contest" (as described in Rule 14a-11 promulgated under the Exchange Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board (a "Proxy Contest") including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest; or 
       
           (c) 
    The consummation of: 
       
           (i) 
    A merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Company or in which securities of the Company are issued (a  Merger ), unless such Merger is a "Non-Control Transaction." A "Non-Control Transaction" shall mean a Merger where: 
       
           (A) 
    the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such Merger own directly or indirectly immediately following such Merger at least fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of (x) the corporation resulting from such Merger (the "Surviving Corporation") if fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Surviving Corporation is not Beneficially Owned, directly or indirectly by another Person (a "Parent Corporation"), or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; 
       
           (B) 
    the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such Merger constitute at least half of the members of the board of directors of (x) the Surviving Corporation, if there is no Parent Corporation, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; and 
       
           (C) 
    no Person other than (1) the Company, (2) any Related Entity, (3) any employee benefit plan (or any trust forming a part thereof) that, immediately prior to such Merger was maintained by the Company or any Related Entity, or (4) any Person who, immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or reorganization had Beneficial Ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the then outstanding Voting Securities or Shares, has Beneficial Ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities or common stock of (x) the Surviving Corporation if there is no Parent Corporation, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; 
       
           (ii) 
    A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or 
       
           (iii) 
    The sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to any Person (other than a transfer to a Related Entity or under conditions that would constitute a Non-Control Transaction with the disposition of assets being regarded as a Merger for this purpose or the distribution to the Company's stockholders of the stock of a Related Entity or any other assets). 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the then outstanding Shares or Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Shares or Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Shares or Voting Securities then outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Persons, provided that if a Change in Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of Shares or Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional Shares or Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the then outstanding Shares or Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall occur. 
    
  ARTICLE K -- Duration of Plan. 
    
  This Plan shall be effective as of January 1, 1994. This Plan will terminate on December 31, 2003 unless a different termination date is fixed by the shareholders or by action of the Board but no such termination shall affect the prior rights under this Plan of the Company or of anyone to whom shares have been transferred prior to such termination. 
    
  Plan adopted November 9, 1993 
  Plan approved by shareholders on October 11, 1994 
  Plan Amended January 10, 1995 
  Plan Amended June 11, 1996 
  Adjusted for August 22, 1997 stock split 
  Plan amended January 12, 1999 
  Plan amended July 11, 2000 
  Plan amended December 12, 2000 
  Plan amended December 11, 2001 
  Plan amended September 10, 2002 

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.8>
 6
 fy171810-kexhibit10x8.htm
 THE P&G 2003 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS' STOCK PLAN

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (10-8) 
    
  The Procter   Gamble 2003 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan 
    
  (as amended October 9, 2007) 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2003 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS' 
  STOCK PLAN 
  (as amended October 9, 2007) 

ARTICLE A -- Purpose. 
    
  The purposes of The Procter   Gamble 2003 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan (the "Plan") are to strengthen the alignment of interests between the non-employee Directors ("Participants") and the shareholders of The Procter   Gamble Company (the "Company") through ownership behavior and the increased ownership of shares of the Company's common stock ( Common Stock ). This will be accomplished by allowing each Participant to elect voluntarily to convert a portion or all of his/her cash fees for services as a Director into Common Stock or RSUs (as hereinafter defined), and by granting Participants (i) restricted stock units or other awards related to the price of Common Stock ( RSUs ), (ii) shares of Common Stock restricted in a manner determined by the Committee ("Restricted Shares"), (iii) non-qualified options to purchase shares of Common Stock ( Stock Options ), and/or (iv) stock appreciation rights ( SARs ). 
    
  ARTICLE B -- Administration. 
    
           1. 
    The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), or such other committee as may be designated by the Board (the "Committee"). The Committee shall consist of not less than three (3) members of the Board who are  Non-Employee Directors  as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  1934 Act ), as amended, or any successor rule or definition adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or such other number of Non-Employee Directors required from time to time by such rule or any successor rule adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, to be appointed by the Board from time to time and to serve at the discretion of the Board. The Committee may establish such regulations, provisions, and procedures within the terms of the Plan as, in its opinion, may be advisable for the administration and operation of the Plan, and may designate the Secretary of the Company or other employees of the Company to assist the Committee in the administration and operation of the Plan and may grant authority to such persons to execute documents on behalf of the Committee. The Committee shall report to the Board on the administration of the Plan not less than once each year. 
       
           2. 
    Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have authority: (i) to allow Participants the right to elect to receive fees for services as a Director in either cash or an equivalent amount of whole shares of Common Stock or RSUs of the Company, or partly in cash and partly in whole shares of the Common Stock or RSUs of the Company, subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine; (ii) to grant Participants Restricted Shares, subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine; (iii) to grant RSUs, subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine; (iv) to grant Participants Stock Options, subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine; (v) to grant Participants SARs, subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine; (vi) to make all other determinations it deems necessary or advisable for administering the Plan; and (vii) to provide for special terms for any RSUs, Restricted Shares, Stock Options, SARs or other awards granted to Participants who are foreign nationals or who reside outside of the United States of America in order to fairly accommodate for differences in local law, tax policy or custom and to approve such supplements to or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of the Plan as the Committee may consider necessary or appropriate for such purposes (without affecting the terms of the Plan for any purpose); and to make all other determinations it deems necessary or advisable for administering the Plan. 
       
  ARTICLE C -- Participation. 
    
  Participation in the Plan shall be limited to non-employee Directors of the Company. 
    
  ARTICLE D -- Limitation on Number of Shares Available Under the Plan. 
    
           1  . 
    The maximum aggregate number of shares available for grant under the Plan shall be 1,000,000 shares. 
       
           2. 
    In addition to the shares authorized for award by Paragraph 1 of this Article, the following shares may be awarded under the Plan: 
       
           (a) 
    shares that were authorized to be awarded under The Procter   Gamble 1993 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan (the  1993 Plan ), but that were not awarded under the 1993 Plan; 

(b) 
    shares awarded under the Plan or the 1993 Plan that are subsequently forfeited in accordance with the Plan or the 1993 Plan, respectively; or shares tendered by or withheld from a Participant in payment of all or part of the exercise price of a stock option awarded under the Plan or the 1993 Plan. 
       
  ARTICLE E -- Shares Subject to Use Under the Plan. 
    
  Shares of Common Stock to be granted by the Company or delivered by the Company upon exercise of Stock Options shall be treasury shares. 
    
  ARTICLE F -Stock Options and SARs. 
    
           1. 
    The Committee may, from time to time, grant Participants one or more Stock Options to purchase shares of Common Stock, each having an exercise price equal to no less than the closing price for Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day of the grant. 
       
           2. 
    The Committee may, from time to time, grant Participants one or more SARs each entitling the Participant to receive, upon exercise, a redemption differential for each such SAR which shall be the difference between the closing price for one share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of exercise and the exercise price of the SAR then being exercised. The exercise price for each SAR granted under this Plan shall be the closing price for Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day of the grant. 
       
           3. 
    Stock Options and SARs shall have a term of not less than ten (10) years from the date of grant, subject to earlier termination as provided herein, and shall be exercisable one hundred percent (100%) not less than one (1) year from the date of grant, except in the case of death of a Participant, in which case such Participant's Stock Options or SARs shall immediately vest and be exercisable in accordance with this Article F. 
       
           4. 
    In the case of death of a Participant, the persons to whom the Stock Options or SARs have been transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution shall have the privilege of exercising remaining Stock Options or SARs or parts thereof, whether or not exercisable on the date of death of such Participant, at any time prior to the expiration date of such Stock Options or SARs. 
       
           5. 
    Stock Options are not transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. For the purpose of exercising Stock Options or SARs after the death of the Participant, the duly appointed executors and administrators of the estate of the deceased Participant shall have the same rights with respect to the Stock Options and SARs as legatees or distributees would have after distribution to them from the Participant's estate, subject in all respects to Article J hereof. 
       
           6. 
    If a Participant ceases to be a Director while holding unexercised Stock Options or SARs, such Stock Options or SARs are then void, except in the case of (i) death, in which case such Stock Options or SARS may be transferred in accordance with this Article F and Article J hereof, (ii) disability, (iii) retirement at the end of a term, (iv) retirement after attaining the age of sixty nine (69), (v) resignation from the Board following a Participant's retirement from a principal employer in good standing under the terms of that employer's retirement plan, or (vi) resignation from the Board for reasons of antitrust laws or the Company's conflict of interest, corporate governance or continued service policies. In cases covered by (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) above, the Participant shall be immediately vested in his or her Stock Options or SARs subject to all other terms of such Stock Options or SARs. 
       
           7. 
    Upon the exercise of a Stock Option, payment in full of the exercise price shall be made by the Participant. The exercise price may be paid for by the Participant either in cash, shares of Common Stock to be valued at their fair market value on the date of exercise, or a combination thereof. 
       
  ARTICLE G -- Adjustments. 
    
  In the event of any future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification, distribution, spin-off or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common Stock of the Company occuring after the date of approval of the Plan by the Company's shareholders, (i) the amount of shares authorized to be issued under the Plan, (ii) the number of shares covered by outstanding Stock Options, SARs, Restricted Shares or RSUs, and (iii) the exercise price of stock options or the grant price of SARs shall be adjusted appropriately and equitably to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights under the Plan. Following any such change, the term "Common Stock" shall be deemed to refer to such class of shares or other securities as may be applicable. 

ARTICLE H -Grant of Common Stock, Restricted Shares or RSUs. 
    
           1. 
    The Committee may grant Common Stock, Restricted Shares, or RSUs to Participants under the Plan subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine. 
       
           2. 
    The shares granted under this Article H shall be valued at the closing price for Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day of the grant to a Participant. All shares granted shall be full shares, rounded up to the nearest whole share. 
       
  ARTICLE I -- Additional Provisions. 
    
           1. 
    The Board may, at any time, repeal the Plan or may amend it except that no such amendment may amend this paragraph, increase the total aggregate number of shares subject to the Plan, alter the persons eligible to receive shares under the Plan. Participants and the Company shall be bound by any such amendments as of their effective dates, but if any outstanding grants are materially affected adversely, notice thereof shall be given to Participants holding such grants and such amendments shall not be applicable without such Participant's written consent. If the Plan is repealed in its entirety, all theretofore granted shares subject to conditions or restrictions granted pursuant to the Plan shall continue to be subject to such conditions or restrictions. Notwithstanding this or any other provision of this Plan, Stock Options and SARs may not be re-priced or re-valued except in accordance with Article G hereof. 
       
           2. 
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, Stock Options and SARs granted hereunder shall vest immediately, and any conditions or restrictions on Common Stock, Restricted Stock or RSUs shall lapse, upon a  Change in Control.  A  Change in Control  shall mean the occurrence of any of the following: 
       
           (a) 
    An acquisition (other than directly from the Company) of any voting securities of the Company (the "Voting Securities") by any "Person" (as the term person is used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the 1934 Act), immediately after which such Person has "Beneficial Ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act) of twenty percent (20%) or more of the then outstanding shares or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities; provided, however, in determining whether a Change in Control has occurred pursuant to this Section 2(a), shares or Voting Securities which are acquired in a "Non-Control Acquisition" (as hereinafter defined) shall not constitute an acquisition which would cause a Change in Control. A "Non-Control Acquisition" shall mean an acquisition by (i) an employee benefit plan (or a trust forming a part thereof) maintained by (A) the Company or (B) any corporation or other Person of which a majority of its voting power or its voting equity securities or equity interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company (for purposes of this definition, a "Related Entity"), (ii) the Company or any Related Entity, or (iii) any Person in connection with a "Non-Control Transaction" (as hereinafter defined); 
       
           (b) 
    The individuals who, as of July 10, 2001 are members of the Board (the "Incumbent Board"), cease for any reason to constitute at least half of the members of the Board; or, following a Merger (as hereinafter defined) which results in a Parent Corporation (as hereinafter defined), the board of directors of the ultimate Parent Corporation; provided, however, that if the election, or nomination for election by the Company's common stockholders, of any new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Board, such new director shall, for purposes of the Plan, be considered as a member of the Incumbent Board; provided further, however, that no individual shall be considered a member of the Incumbent Board if such individual initially assumed office as a result of either an actual or threatened "Election Contest" (as described in Rule 14a-11 promulgated under the 1934 Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board (a "Proxy Contest") including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest; or 
       
           (c) 
    The consummation of: 
       
           (i) 
    A merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Company or in which securities of the Company are issued (a  Merger ), unless such Merger is a "Non-Control Transaction". A "Non-Control Transaction" shall mean a Merger where: 
       
           (A) 
    the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such Merger own directly or indirectly immediately following such Merger at least fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of (x) the corporation  

resulting from such Merger (the "Surviving Corporation") if fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Surviving Corporation is not Beneficially Owned, directly or indirectly by another Person (a "Parent Corporation"), or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; 
    
           (B) 
    the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such Merger constitute at least half of the members of the board of directors of (x) the Surviving Corporation, if there is no Parent Corporation, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; and 
       
           (C) 
    no Person other than (1) the Company, (2) any Related Entity, (3) any employee benefit plan (or any trust forming a part thereof) that, immediately prior to such Merger was maintained by the Company or any Related Entity, or (4) any Person who, immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or reorganization had Beneficial Ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the then outstanding Voting Securities or shares, has Beneficial Ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities or common stock of (x) the Surviving Corporation if there is no Parent Corporation, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; 
       
           (ii) 
    A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or 
       
           (iii) 
    The sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to any Person (other than a transfer to a Related Entity or under conditions that would constitute a Non-Control Transaction with the disposition of assets being regarded as a Merger for this purpose or the distribution to the Company's stockholders of the stock of a Related Entity or any other assets). 
       
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the then outstanding shares or Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of shares or Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of shares or Voting Securities then outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Persons, provided that if a Change in Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of shares or Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares or Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the then outstanding shares or Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall occur. 
    
  ARTICLE J --Consent. 
    
  Every Participant who receives a grant of Common Stock, Stock Options, SARs, Restricted Shares or RSUs pursuant to the Plan shall be bound by the terms and provisions of the Plan and of any grant agreement referable thereto, and the acceptance of any grant of shares or RSUs pursuant to the Plan shall constitute a binding agreement between the Participant and the Company and any successors in interest to any of them. Every person who receives Stock Options or SARs, in accordance with Article F hereof, that a Participant received pursuant to the Plan shall, in addition to such terms and conditions as the Committee may require upon such grant, be bound by the terms and provisions of the Plan and of the grant of Stock Options or SARs referable thereto, and the acceptance of any grant of shares or RSUs by such person shall constitute a binding agreement between such person and the Company and any successors in interest to any of them. The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio, United States of America. 
    
  ARTICLE K -- Duration of Plan. 
    
  The Plan shall be effective as of January 1, 2004 and terminate on December 31, 2013 unless a different termination date is fixed by the shareholders or by action of the Board but no such termination shall affect the prior rights under the Plan of the Company or of anyone to whom Common Stock, Stock Options, SARs, Restricted Shares or RSUs have been granted prior to such termination. 

2003 Plan.doc 
  RELATED CORRESPONDENCE AND 
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 

BOD 

[INSERT DATE] 
    
  [INSERT NAME} 
  Subject:        Award of Restricted Stock Units 
    
  This is to advise you that The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation, is awarding you with Restricted Stock Units, on the dates and in the amounts listed below, pursuant to The Procter   Gamble 2003 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan, and subject to the attached Statement of Terms and Conditions Form RSU. 
  Grant Date:                [INSERT DATE OF GRANT] 
  Forfeiture Date:            [INSERT DATE FORFEITURE ENDS] 
  Original Settlement Date:        [INSERT DATE RSUs BECOME SHARES] 
  Number of Restricted Stock Units:    [INSERT NUMBER GRANTED] 
       
  As you will see from the Statement of Terms and Conditions Form RSU, under certain circumstances you may agree with The Procter   Gamble Company to delay the settlement of your Restricted Stock Units beyond the Original Settlement Date. You may want to consult your personal tax advisor before making a decision about this matter. 
    
  THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

[NAME] 
  For the Compensation Committee 

Form BOD 
    
  Effective 11/15/08 
    
  THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 
    
  STATEMENT OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 
    
  THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2003 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS' STOCK PLAN 

The Restricted Stock Units awarded to you as set forth in the letter you received from the Company (your  Award Letter ), and your ownership thereof, are subject to the following terms and conditions. 
    
  1.        Definitions. 
    
  For purposes of this Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units ( Terms and Conditions ), all capitalized terms not defined in these Terms and Conditions will have the meanings described in The Procter   Gamble 2003 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan (the  Plan ), and the following terms will have the following meanings. 
    
  (a)       Agreed Settlement Date    has the meaning described in Section 2(c); 
    
  (b)       Data    has the meaning described in Section 8; 
    
  (c)       Dividend Equivalents    has the meaning described in Section 3; 
    
  (d)       Forfeiture Date    is the date identified as such in your Award Letter; 
    
  (e)       Forfeiture Period    means the period from the Grant Date until the Forfeiture Date. 
    
  (f)       Grant Date    means the date a Restricted Stock Unit was awarded to you, as identified in your Award Letter; 
    
  (g)       Original Settlement Date    is the date identified as such in your Award Letter, as adjusted, if applicable, by Section 2; 
    
  (h)       Post-Forfeiture Period    means the period from the Forfeiture Date until the later of the Original Settlement Date or the Agreed Settlement Date; 
    
  (i)       Procter   Gamble    means the Company and/or its Subsidiaries; 
    
  (j)       Restricted Stock Unit    means an unfunded, unsecured promise by the Company, in accordance with these Terms and Conditions and the provisions of the Plan, to issue to you one share of Common Stock on the later of the Original Settlement Date or the Agreed Settlement Date; 
    
  (k)       Separation from Service    shall have the meaning provided under Section 409A of the Code and regulations thereto. 
    
  2.        Transfer and Restrictions. 
    
  (a)    Neither Restricted Stock Units nor your interest in them may be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, given or otherwise disposed of by you at any time, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Any attempted transfer of a Restricted Stock Unit, whether voluntary or involuntary on your part, will result in the immediate forfeiture to the Company, and cancellation, of the Restricted Stock Unit (including all rights to receive Dividend Equivalents). 
    
  (b)    During the Forfeiture Period, your Restricted Stock Units (including all rights to receive Dividend Equivalents) will be forfeited and cancelled if you leave your position as a Director of the Company for any reason, except due to your: (i) disability; (ii) retirement after attaining the age of sixty-nine (69); (iii) resignation following retirement from your principal employer in good standing under the terms or your principal employer's retirement plan; or (iv) resignation for reasons of antitrust laws or the Company's conflict of interest, corporate governance or continued service policies. In the event of your disability during the Forfeiture Period, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Company, your Original Settlement Date shall automatically and  

immediately become, without any further action by you or the Company, the date of your disability. In the event of any of the other above exceptions occurring, you will retain your Restricted Stock Units subject to the Plan and these Terms and Conditions. 
    
  (c)    At any time at least one calendar year prior to the Original Settlement Date, you and the Company may agree to postpone the date on which you are entitled to receive one share of Common Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit you hold according to the deferral terms in place at the time, and provided the new date (the  Agreed Settlement Date ) is at least five years from the Original Settlement Date. 
    
  (d)    Upon your death or upon your disability that satisfies the definition of  disability  under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A ( Section 409A ), at any time while you hold Restricted Stock Units and/or Dividend Equivalents, your Original Settlement Date (or Agreed Settlement Date, if applicable) will automatically and immediately become, without any further action by you or the Company, the date of your death or disability, as applicable. 
    
  (e)    Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the forfeiture Date (if any) shall become the date the Change in Control occurred. If the Change in Control occurrence meets the definitional requirements of a change in control as defined under Section 409A, your Original Settlement Date (or Agreed Settlement Date, if applicable) will become the date the change in control occurred, and the award will be settled in accordance with the terms of the Plan. If the Change in Control does not meet the Section 409A requirements, your Original Settlement Date (or Agreed Settlement Date, if applicable) will not be changed. 
    
  (f)    From time to time, the Company and/or the Committee may establish procedures with which you must comply in order to accept an award of Restricted Stock Units, to agree to an Agreed Settlement Date, or to settle your Restricted Stock Units, including requiring you to do so by means of electronic signature, or charging you an administrative fee for doing so. 
    
  (g)    Once your Restricted Stock Units have been settled by delivery to you of an equivalent number of shares of Common Stock, the Restricted Stock Units will have no further value, force or effect and you will cease to receive Dividend Equivalents associated with the Restricted Stock Units. 
    
  3.        Dividend Equivalents. 
    
  As a holder of Restricted Stock Units, during the period from the Grant Date until the Original Settlement Date or the Agreed Settlement Date, whichever is later, each time a cash dividend or other cash distribution is paid with respect to Common Stock, you will receive additional Restricted Stock Units ( Dividend Equivalents ). The number of such additional Restricted Stock Units will be determined as follows: multiply the number of Restricted Stock Units currently held by the per share amount of the cash dividend or other cash distribution on the Common Stock, and then divide the result by the price of the Common Stock on the date of the dividend or distribution. These Dividend Equivalent Restricted Stock Units will be subject to the same terms and conditions as the original Restricted Stock Units that gave rise to them, including forfeiture and settlement terms, except that if there is a fractional number of Dividend Equivalent Restricted Stock Units on the date they are to be settled, you will receive one share of Common Stock for the fractional Dividend Equivalent Restricted Stock Units. 
    
  4.        Voting and Other Shareholder Rights. 
    
  A Restricted Stock Unit is not a share of Common Stock, and thus you are not entitled to any voting, dividend or other rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Restricted Stock Units you hold. 
    
  5.        Adjustments in Case of Stock Dividends, Stock Splits, Etc. 
    
  In the event of a future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification, distribution, spin-off, or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common Stock, the number of Restricted Stock Units you hold will be adjusted appropriately and equitably to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights. 
    
  6.        Tax Withholding. 
    
  To the extent Procter   Gamble is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes in connection with your Restricted Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents, the Committee may require you to make such arrangements as Procter   Gamble may deem appropriate for the payment of such taxes required to be withheld, including without limitation, relinquishment of some of the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be given to you. However, regardless of any action taken by Procter   Gamble with respect to any income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, or other tax, by accepting a Restricted Stock Unit or Dividend Equivalent, you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for any such tax owed by you is and remains your responsibility, and that  

Procter   Gamble makes no representations about the tax treatment of your Restricted Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents, and does not commit to structure any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents to reduce or eliminate your tax liability. 
    
  7.        Suspension Periods and Termination. 
    
  The Company reserves the right from time to time to temporarily suspend your right to settle your Restricted Stock Units for shares of Common Stock where such suspension is deemed by the Company as necessary or appropriate and to the extent such action does not result in immediate taxation and penalties under Section 409A. 
    
  8.        Data Privacy. 
    
  By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this document by and among, as applicable, any Procter   Gamble entity or third party for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Procter   Gamble holds certain personal information about you, including without limitation your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in a Procter   Gamble entity, details of all options, Restricted Stock Units, or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ). You understand that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to any broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock in connection with the settlement of your Restricted Stock Units. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data, or refuse or withdraw the consents contained in this paragraph, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative. 
    
  9.        Notices. 
    
  (a)    Any notice to Procter   Gamble that is required or appropriate with respect to Restricted Stock Units held by you must be in writing and addressed to: 
    
  The Procter   Gamble Company 
  ATTN: Corporate Secretary's Office 
  P.O. Box 599 
  Cincinnati, OH 45201 
    
  or such other address as Procter   Gamble may from time to time provide to you in writing. 
    
  (b)    Any notice to you that is required or appropriate with respect to Restricted Stock Units held or to be awarded to you will be provided to you in written or electronic form at any physical or electronic mail address for you that is on file with Procter   Gamble. 
    
  10.        Successors and Assigns. 
    
  These Terms and Conditions are binding on, and inure to the benefit of, (a) The Procter   Gamble Company and its successors and assigns; and (b) you and, if applicable, the representative of your estate. 
    
  11.        Governing Law. 
    
  The validity, interpretation, performance and enforcements of these Terms and Conditions, the Plan and your Restricted Stock Units will be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, U.S.A. without giving effect to any other jurisdiction's conflicts of  

law principles. With respect to any dispute concerning these Terms and Conditions, the Plan and your Restricted Stock Units, you consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal or state courts located in Hamilton County, Ohio, U.S.A. 
    
  12.        The Plan. 
    
  All Restricted Stock Units awarded to you have been awarded under the Plan. Certain provisions of the Plan may have been repeated or emphasized in these Terms and Conditions; however, all terms of the Plan apply to you and your Restricted Stock Units whether or not they have been called out in these Terms and Conditions. 
    
  13.        Effect of These Terms and Conditions. 
    
  These Terms and Conditions and the terms of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, describe the contractual rights awarded to you in the form of Restricted Stock Units, and the obligations imposed on you in connection with those rights. No right exists with respect to Restricted Stock Units except as described in these Terms and Conditions and the Plan. 

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.10>
 7
 fy171810-kexhibit10x10.htm
 SUMMARY OF THE COMPANY'S SHORT TERM ACHIEVEMENT REWARD PROGRAM

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (10-10) 
    
  Summary of the Company's Short Term  
  Achievement Reward Program 

SHORT TERM ACHIEVEMENT REWARD PROGRAM 
  (Effective July 1, 2018) 
    
  The Short Term Achievement Reward ( STAR ) Program is The Procter   Gamble Company s (the  Company ) annual bonus program designed to motivate and reward employees for achieving outstanding short term business results for the Company and its subsidiaries.  STAR awards are made pursuant to authority delegated to the Compensation   Leadership Development Committee (the  C LD Committee ) by the Board of Directors for awarding compensation to the Company s principal officers and for making awards under the Procter   Gamble 2014 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  2014 Plan ) or any successor stock plan approved in accordance with applicable listing standards.   
    
  I.        ELIGIBILITY 
    
  Employees at Band 3 or above and who worked at least 28 days (four calendar weeks) during the applicable fiscal year are eligible to participate.  Eligible employees who do not work a full schedule (e.g., leaves of absence, disability, and less-than-full time schedules) in the fiscal year in which the award is payable may have awards pro-rated.   
    
  II.        CALCULATION 
    
  The individual STAR Award is calculated as follows:   
    
  (  STAR Target  ) x [ (  Business Unit Performance Factor   x 70% weighting) + (  Total Company Performance Factor   X 30% weighting) ]  

The   STAR Target   for each participant is calculated as:   
       
  (Base Salary) x (STAR Target percent) 
    
  Base Salary   at the end of the applicable fiscal year is used to calculate the STAR award.   
    
  Generally, the   STAR Target Percent   is dependent on the individual s position and level (Band) in the organization.  The STAR Target percent for participants at Band 7 or above is set by the C LD Committee.  The STAR Target percent for all other participants is set by the Chief Executive Officer, with the concurrence of the Chief Human Resources Officer, pursuant to authority delegated to them by the C LD Committee. If an individual s position and/or level changes during a fiscal year, and that change results in a new STAR Target Percent, the STAR Target Percent is pro-rated according to the amount of time in each position/level during the fiscal year.   

The   Business Unit Performance Factor   is weighted at 70% and is based on the fiscal year success for the appropriate STAR business unit. The STAR business units are defined by the Chief Human Resources Officer and may consist of business categories, segments, geographies, functions, organizations or a combination of one or more of these items.  The STAR business units will be defined within ninety (90) days of the beginning of the fiscal year, but may be adjusted as necessary to reflect business and/or organizational changes (e.g., reorganization, acquisition, merger, divestiture, etc.).  The Business Unit Performance Factors can range from 0% to 200% with a target of 100%.  In general, a committee consisting of at least two of the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer and/or the Chief Operating Officer (the  STAR Committee ), conducts a comprehensive retrospective assessment of the fiscal year performance of each STAR business unit against previously established goals for one or more of the following measures: Operating Total Shareholder Return, Key Competitor Comparison, After Tax Profit, Operating Cash Flow, Value Share, Volume, Net Outside Sales, Customer spending effectiveness, SRAP cost progress, Transportation and warehouse cost progress, Internal controls, Accounts receivable payscore (collection effectiveness),     Organization Head Self-Assessment, and Cross Organization Assessment.  The STAR Committee makes a recommendation of an appropriate Business Unit Performance Factor to the C LD Committee.  There may also be other factors significantly affecting STAR business unit results positively or negatively which can be considered by the STAR Committee when making its recommendation.  No member of the STAR Committee makes any recommendation or determination as to their own STAR award.  As a result, there are certain instances in which a Business Unit Performance Factor recommendation to the C LD Committee must be made exclusively by the Chief Executive Officer.   
       
  Business Unit leaders may then allocate the approved STAR Business Unit Factors among the divisions of the Business Unit to more closely align the STAR award with performance, so long as the total expenditure does not exceed that approved by the Star Committee and no individual STAR award exceeds 200% of target. 

The   Total Company Performance Factor   is weighted at 30% and is based on the total Company s success during the fiscal year and ranges from 0% to 200%, with a target of 100%. The same Total Company Performance Factor is applied to all STAR award calculations, regardless of STAR business unit.  It is determined using a matrix which compares results against pre-established goals for fiscal year organic sales growth and core earnings per share ( EPS ) growth for the fiscal year.   
       
  While the STAR Committee makes recommendations to the C LD Committee regarding the Business Unit and Total Company performance factors to be applied to all STAR awards (except those for the STAR Committee members), only the final award amounts for principal officers are approved specifically by the C LD Committee.  The C LD Committee has delegated the approval of STAR awards for other participants to the Chief Executive Officer. The C LD Committee has discretion to use, increase or decrease the performance factors recommended by the STAR Committee and/or to choose not to pay STAR awards during a given year.   
    
  III.        TIMING AND FORM 
    
  STAR awards are determined after the close of the fiscal year and are paid on or about September 15.  The award form choices and relevant considerations are explained to participants annually.  Participants receive written notice of their award detailing the calculation and grant letters for those employees who elect to receive awards in stock options  
    
  Generally, STAR awards are paid in cash. However, before the end of the calendar year preceding the award date, eligible participants can elect to receive their STAR award in forms other than cash.  Alternatives to cash include stock options, stock appreciation rights ( SARS ), local deferral programs (depending on local regulations in some countries) and/or deferred compensation (for employees eligible to participate in the Executive Deferred Compensation Program).  The number of stock options or SARs awarded to each employee will be determined on grant date by determining the USD value of the award chosen by the employee to be paid in stock options and dividing that value by the grant date GAAP expense of one stock option.  The result will be rounded up to the nearest whole share. Any STAR award paid in stock options or other form of equity shall be awarded pursuant to this program and the terms and conditions of the 2014 Plan or any successor stock plan approved in accordance with applicable listing standards, as they may be revised from time to time.  STAR awards paid in stock options or SARS will have the following terms unless otherwise approved by the C LD Committee at grant: 
    
  Grant date will be the last business day on or before September 15.  If the New York Stock Exchange is closed on the day of the grant, then the C LD Committee will establish a grant date as soon as practical following the date previously specified. Provided participants remain in compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in the 2014 Plan and the Regulations, STAR stock options and SARs are not forfeitable, will become exercisable three years after the grant date, and will expire ten years after the grant date.  In the event of death of the participant, the award becomes exercisable as of the date of death and the award remains exercisable until the Expiration Date.  For awards granted in France or the United Kingdom, the consequences of death are determined by the local plan supplement, if applicable. 
    
  The option price used for any STAR Award will be the closing price for a share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the grant date, or such higher price as may be specified in the French Addendum of the Regulations (the  Grant Price ). 
    
  IV.        SEPARATION FROM THE COMPANY 

Retirement, Death or Special Separation with a Separation Package  :  If a participant worked at least 28 days (4 calendar weeks) during the fiscal year, the STAR award is pro-rated by dividing the number of calendar days the participant was an  active employee  during the fiscal year by 365.  

Voluntary Resignation or Termination for cause:    Separating employees must have been active employees as of June 30 or the last business day in June (the close of the fiscal year for which the award is payable) to receive an award.   

Separation due to a Company authorized divestiture:   In the case of divestitures the CHRO is authorized to determine the appropriate STAR payout based on Business Unit factors either at Target or at projected or actual business results.  The CHRO is also authorized to pay awards for the current or following partial fiscal year at time of divestiture close for administrative convenience.   
       
  Eligible participants who have left the Company will receive a cash payment (stock options  can only be issued to active employees)     on the same timing as STAR awards or as soon thereafter as possible. 

V.        CHANGE IN CONTROL 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if there is a Change in Control in any fiscal year, STAR awards will be calculated in accordance with Section II above, but each factor will be calculated for the period from the beginning of the fiscal year in which a Change in Control occurred up to and including the date of such Change in Control ( CIC Period ).   Change in Control  shall have the same meaning as defined in the 2014 Plan or any successor stock plan. 
    
  VI.        GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
    
  While any STAR award amount received by one individual for any year shall be considered as earned remuneration in addition to salary paid, it shall be understood that this plan does not give to any officer or employee any contract rights, express or implied, against any Company for any STAR award or for compensation in addition to the salary paid to him or her, or any right to question the action of the Board of Directors or the C LD or STAR Committees. 
    
  Each award to an individual at Band 7 and above, made pursuant to this plan, is subject to the Senior Executive Recoupment Policy as amended by the C LD Committee in April 2018. 
    
  To the extent applicable, it is intended that STAR comply with the provisions of Section 409A.  STAR will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent.  Neither a Participant nor any of a Participant s creditors or beneficiaries will have the right to subject any deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A) payable under STAR to any anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment or garnishment.  Except as permitted under Section 409A, any deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A) payable to a Participant under STAR may not be reduced by, or offset against, any amount owing by a Participant to the Company. 
    
  This program document may be amended at any time by the C LD Committee. 

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.13>
 8
 fy171810-kexhibit10x13.htm
 THE GILLETTE CO. 2004 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (10-13) 
    
  The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
    
  (Amended and Restated as of August 14, 2007) 

Contents 
    
  Article 1. Establishment, Purpose, and Duration 
    
  Article 2. Administration 
    
  Article 3. Shares Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards 
    
  Article 4. Eligibility and Participation 
    
  Article 5. Stock Options 
    
  Article 6. Stock Appreciation Rights 
    
  Article 7. Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units     
    
  Article 8. Performance Shares 
    
  Article 9. Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards 
    
  Article 10. Performance Measures 
    
  Article 11. Dividend Equivalents 
    
  Article 12. Additional Conditions of Awards 
    
  Article 13. Deferrals 
    
  Article 14. Rights of Participants 
    
  Article 15. Covered Transactions and Change of Control 
    
  Article 16. Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination 
    
  Article 17. Withholding 
    
  Article 18. Successors 
    
  Article 19. General Provisions 
    
  Article 19A. Special Merger Provisions 
    
  Article 20. Definitions 

The Gillette Company 
  2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
    
  Article 1. Establishment, Purpose, and Duration 
    
  1.1        Establishment  . The Gillette Company, a Delaware corporation has established this 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) as a long-term incentive compensation plan. The Plan permits the grant of Cash-Based Awards, Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, and Other Stock-Based Awards. The Plan is effective as of May 20, 2004 (the  Effective Date ) and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.4 hereof. 
    
  1.2     Assumption of the Plan.   As of the Effective Time, The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation, has assumed the Plan according to the Merger Agreement. Unless otherwise specified, amendments to the Plan made in connection with the Merger Agreement shall be effective upon the Effective Time. Should the Merger not become effective, the Plan shall revert to the form approved by the shareholders of The Gillette Company on May 20, 2004, without prejudice to any Awards then outstanding. 
    
  1.3        Purpose of the Plan  . The purpose of the Plan is to promote the interests of the Company and its stockholders by strengthening the Company's ability to attract, motivate, and retain Employees and, until the Effective Time, Nonemployee Directors     of the Company upon whose judgment, initiative, and efforts the financial success and growth of the business of the Company depend, and to provide an additional incentive for such individuals through stock ownership and other rights that promote and recognize the financial success and growth of the Company and create value for stockholders. 
    
  1.4        Duration of the Plan  . Unless sooner terminated as provided herein, the Plan shall terminate ten years from the Effective Date. After the Plan is terminated, no Awards may be granted but Awards previously granted shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms. No Incentive Stock Options may be granted more than ten years after December 9, 2003. 
    
  Article 2. Administration 
    
  2.1        General  . The Committee shall be responsible for administering the Plan, subject to this Article 2 and the other provisions of the Plan. The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, agents, and other persons, any of whom may be an Employee, and shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions, or valuations of any such persons. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding upon the Participants, the Company, and all other interested persons. 
    
  2.2        Authority of the Committee  . The Committee shall have full discretionary power to interpret the terms and the intent of the Plan and any Award Agreement or other agreement or document ancillary to or in connection with the Plan; to determine eligibility for Awards ; to adopt such rules, regulations, forms, instruments, and guidelines for administering the Plan, as it may deem necessary or proper. Such authority shall include, but not be limited to, selecting Award recipients including prospective Employees and establishing all Award terms and conditions, including the terms and conditions set forth in Award Agreements. In addition, for any grant following the Effective Time, the Committee shall have the further authority to: 
    
           (a) 
    waive the provisions of Section 12.1A(a) hereof; 
       
           (b) 
    waive the provisions of Section 12.1A(b) hereof; 
       
           (c) 
    waive the provisions of Section 12.1A(c) hereof; 

(e) 
    impose conditions in lieu of those set forth in Articles 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 for Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, RSUs, Performance Shares, or other Awards which do not increase or extend the rights of the Participant. 
       
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Awards to Nonemployee Directors shall be made by the Board, and all references in the Plan to the Committee, where the Committee is referred to as having discretion or authority to grant Awards, shall, as applied to Awards made to Nonemployee Directors, be construed to refer to the Board. Awards to Nonemployee Directors are not subject to management's discretion. 

2.3        Composition.   The Committee shall consist of not fewer than three (3) members of the Board who are "Non-Employee Directors" as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), or any successor rule or definition adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, to be appointed by the Board from time to time and to serve at the discretion of the Board. The Committee shall report to the Board on the administration of the Plan not less than once each year. 
    
  The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members or to one or more officers of the Company, and/or its Subsidiaries or to one or more agents or advisors such administrative duties or powers as it may deem advisable. The Committee may also delegate to one or more officers (each, a  delegated officer ) of the Company the power to designate Employees (other than the delegated officer and other than any officer subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act) to receive Awards under the Plan, on such terms as the delegated officer determines, subject to the following: (i) any such delegation with respect to Options shall comply with the requirements set forth therein, and (ii) in the case of any such delegation with respect to other Awards involving the issuance of Shares, the Committee shall authorize the issuance of the Shares, limiting the aggregate number thereof that shall be subject to Awards to which the delegation applies, and shall determine the price, if any, to be paid therefor. Any officer to whom a delegation under the preceding sentence is made shall report periodically to the Committee, in such detail as the Committee may require, concerning Awards allocated or granted pursuant to such delegation. References to the Committee herein shall be deemed to include any person to whom the Committee has delegated responsibilities under this Section 2.3, to the extent of such delegation. 
    
  Article 3. Shares Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards 
    
  3.1    Number of Shares Available for Awards. 
    
           (a) 
    Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3.4 hereof, the maximum number of Shares available for issuance to Participants under the Plan (the  Share Authorization ) shall be: 

(ii) 
    The sum of (1) the authorized Shares not issued or subject to outstanding awards under the Company's Prior Plan as of the Effective Date plus (2) any unissued Shares subject to outstanding awards as of the Effective Date under the Prior Plan that on or after the Effective Date cease for any reason to be subject to such awards (other than by reason of exercise or settlement of the awards to the extent they are exercised for or settled in vested and nonforfeitable Shares). 
       
           (b) 
    Subject to the foregoing limit on the number of Shares that may be issued in the aggregate under the Plan, the maximum number of Shares that may be issued in the following categories shall be as follows: 
       
           (i) 
    No more than thirty seven million (37,000,000) Shares may be issued pursuant to Awards in the form of ISOs; and 
       
           (ii) 
    No more than thirty seven million (37,000,000) Shares may be issued pursuant to Awards in the form of NQSOs; and 
       
           (iii) 
    No more than one million (1,000,000) Shares may be issued pursuant to Awards made to Nonemployee Directors. 
       
  3.2        Share Usage. 
    
           (a) 
    Shares related to Awards that terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, or are exchanged with the Committee's permission, prior to the issuance of Shares, for Awards not involving Shares, are not issued Shares and, consistent with Section 3.1 above, shall be available for Awards granted under the Plan. If the Option Price of any Option granted under the Plan or the tax withholding requirements with respect to any Award granted under the Plan are satisfied by tendering Shares to the Company (by either actual delivery or by attestation), or if shares are tendered for any other purpose under any other form of Award, the number of Shares treated as issued under the Plan for purposes of Section 3.1 above shall be determined net of any Shares tendered to the Company. The Shares available for issuance under the Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares or treasury Shares, or shares acquired in the open market as the Committee determines. 

(b) 
    The Committee shall have the authority to grant Awards as an alternative to or as the form of payment for grants or rights earned or due under other compensation plans or arrangements of the Company. 
       
  3.3    Annual Award Limits.   The following limits (each an  Annual Award Limit,  and, collectively,  Annual Award Limits ) shall apply to grants of Awards under the Plan: 
    
           (a) 
    Options  : The maximum aggregate number of Shares subject to Options granted in any one Plan Year to any one Participant shall be three million (3,000,000) plus the amount of the Participant's unused applicable Annual Award Limit as of the close of the previous Plan Year. 
       
           (b) 
    SARs  : The maximum number of Shares subject to Stock Appreciation Rights granted in any one Plan Year to any one Participant shall be three million (3,000,000) plus the amount of the Participant's unused applicable Annual Award Limit as of the close of the previous Plan Year. 
       
           (c) 
    Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units  : The maximum aggregate grant with respect to Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted in any one Plan Year to any one Participant shall be two million (2,000,000) plus the amount of the Participant's unused applicable Annual Award Limit as of the close of the previous Plan Year. 
       
           (d) 
    Performance Shares  : The maximum aggregate grant of Performance Shares in any one Plan Year to any one Participant shall be one and one-half million (1,500,000) Shares plus the amount of the Participant's unused applicable Annual Award Limit as of the close of the previous Plan Year. 
       
           (e) 
    Cash-Based Awards  : The maximum aggregate grant amount with respect to Cash-Based Awards granted in any one Plan Year to any one Participant may not exceed ten million dollars ($10,000,000) plus the amount of the Participant's unused applicable Annual Award Limit as of the close of the previous Plan Year. 
       
           (f) 
    Other Stock-Based Awards  : The maximum aggregate grant with respect to Other Stock-Based Awards granted in any one Plan Year to any one Participant shall be one and one-half million (1,500,000) Shares plus the amount of the Participant's unused applicable Annual Award Limit as of the close of the previous Plan Year. 
       
           (g) 
    Awards to Nonemployee Directors:   The maximum aggregate grant with respect to Awards made in any one Plan Year to any one Nonemployee Director shall be twenty thousand (20,000) Shares plus the amount of the Participant's unused applicable Annual Award Limit as of the close of the previous Plan Year. Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Plan, there shall be no Awards granted to any Nonemployee Director after May 2005,   provided that   the Merger closes according to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement. 
       
  3.4        Adjustments in Authorized Shares  . In the event of any corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the shares of the Company or the capitalization of the Company) such as a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, combination of Shares, exchange of Shares, dividend in kind, or other like change in capital structure, or a distribution (other than a normal cash dividend) to stockholders of the Company, or any similar corporate event or transaction, the Committee, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants' rights under the Plan, shall substitute or adjust, as applicable, the number and kind of Shares that may be issued under the Plan or under particular forms of Award, the number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, the Option Price or Grant Price applicable to outstanding Awards, the Annual Award Limits, and other value determinations applicable to outstanding Awards. 
    
  The Committee may also make such other adjustments in Awards as are authorized by Article 15 or Article 16. Any adjustment made pursuant to this Section 3.4 or pursuant to Article 15 or Article 16 that is made with respect to an Award intended to be an ISO shall be made only to the extent consistent with such intent, and any such adjustment that is made with respect to an Award to a Covered Employee that is intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be made consistent with that intent. The determination of the Committee as to Award adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under the Plan. 
    
  3.5         Adjustments Resulting from the Merger.   The Share Authorization, Annual Award Limits, and other Award limitations and maximums set forth in this Article 3 shall be multiplied by the Exchange Ratio to establish an adjusted Share Authorization, Annual Award Limits, and other Award limitations and maximums following the Effective Time. 

Article 4. Eligibility and Participation 
    
  4.1        Eligibility  . Individuals eligible to participate in this Plan include all key Employees who, in the opinion of the Committee, have demonstrated a capacity for contributing in a substantial manner to the success of the Company and/or its subsidiaries. Nonemployee Directors of the Company are also eligible for participation in the Plan until and including May 2005, after which time no further grants shall be made to Nonemployee Directors,   provided that   the Merger closes according to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement. 
    
  4.2        Actual Participation  . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible individuals those to whom Awards shall be granted and the amount, type, and terms of each Award. 
    
  Article 5. Stock Options 
    
  5.1        Grant of Options  . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee; provided that ISOs may be granted only to eligible Employees of the Company or of any parent or subsidiary corporation (as these terms are defined in Section 424 of the Code and the regulations thereunder). 
    
  5.2        Award Agreement  . Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the maximum duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, the conditions upon which an Option shall become vested and exercisable, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine that are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or a NQSO. 
    
  5.3        Option Price  . The Option Price for each grant of an Option under this Plan shall be as determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement. The Option Price shall be fixed and shall be equal to or greater than the FMV on the date of grant of the Shares subject to the Option. 
    
  5.4        Duration of Options  . Each Option shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant; provided, however, that no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10   th   ) anniversary of the date of its grant. 
    
  5.5        Exercise of Options  . Options shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which terms and restrictions need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant. 
    
  5.6        Payment  . Options granted under this Article 5 shall be exercised by the delivery of a notice of exercise to the Company or an agent designated by the Company in a form specified or accepted by the Committee, or by complying with any alternative procedures which may be authorized by the Committee, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares. 
    
  The issuance of Shares with respect to any Option exercise shall be conditioned on full payment of the related Option Price. The Option Price of any Option shall be payable to the Company either: (a) in cash or its equivalent; (b) by tendering (either by actual delivery or attestation) previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the Option Price (provided that, except as otherwise determined by the Committee, the Shares that are tendered must have been held by the Participant for at least six (6) months prior to their tender to satisfy the Option Price or have been purchased on the open market); (c) by any other method approved or accepted by the Committee, including, without limitation, if the Committee so determines, a cashless (broker assisted) exercise; or (d) by any combination of the foregoing. 
    
  Subject to any governing rules or regulations, as soon as practicable after receipt of written notification of exercise and full payment (including satisfaction of any applicable tax withholding), the Company shall deliver to the person exercising the Option evidence of book entry Shares, or upon such person's request, Share certificates in an appropriate amount based upon the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s). 
    
  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, all cash payments under all of the methods indicated above shall be paid in United States dollars. 
    
  5.7        Restrictions on Share Transferability  . The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted under this Article 5 as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, minimum holding period requirements, restrictions under applicable securities laws, or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded. 

5.8        Termination of Employment  .          
    
  Except as provided in Section 19A hereof and the Merger Agreement, in the event that a Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries while holding an unexercised Option: 
    
           (a) 
    Any unexercisable portions thereof are then void, except in the case of: (1) death of the Participant; (2) Retirement or Special Separation that occurs more than six months from the date the Options were granted; or (3) any Option as to which the Committee has waived, at the time of grant, the provisions of this Section 5.8(a) hereof. 
       
           (b) 
    Any exercisable portions thereof are then void, except in the case of: (1) death of the Participant which for Options granted prior to the Effective Time shall be exercised within the shorter of the term of the original grant or three years from the date of death, and for Options granted after the Effective Time shall be exercised within the term of the original grant; (2) Retirement or Special Separation; (3) a voluntary resignation that is not for Good Reason, but only with respect to Options granted prior to the Effective Time, which must be exercised (if at all) within 30 days after the date of termination of employment; or (4) any Option as to which the Committee has waived, at the time of grant, the provisions of this Section 5.8(b). 
       
           (c) 
    In the case of a Special Separation which occurs prior to October 2, 2007, any Option must be exercised within the time specified in the original grant or five (5) years from the date of Special Separation, whichever is shorter.     For a Special Separation which occurs on or after October 2, 2007, any Option must be exercised within the time specified in the original grant. 
       
           (d) 
    In the case of the death of a Participant, the persons to whom the Options granted following the Effective Time have been transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution shall have the privilege of exercising remaining Options or parts thereof, whether or not exercisable on the date of death of such Participant, at any time prior to the expiration date of the Options. Options granted before the Effective Time may be exercised during a period ending on the earlier of the term of the original grant or three years from the date of death. 
       
  5.9        Transferability of Options. 
    
           (a) 
    Incentive Stock Options  . No ISO granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, all ISOs granted to a Participant under this Article 5 shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant, or, in the event of the legal incompetence of the Participant, by the Participant's duly appointed legal guardian. 
       
           (b) 
    Nonqualified Stock Options  . Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement or otherwise at any time by the Committee, no NQSO granted under this Article 5 may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution; provided that the Board or Committee may permit further transferability, on a general or a specific basis, and may impose conditions and limitations on any permitted transferability. Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement or otherwise at any time by the Committee, or unless the Board or Committee decides to permit further transferability, all NQSOs granted to a Participant under this Article 5 shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or, in the event of the legal incompetence of the Participant, by the Participant's duly appointed legal guardian. With respect to those NQSOs, if any, that are permitted to be transferred to another person, relevant references in the Plan to the Participant, as determined by the Committee, shall be deemed to include the Participant's permitted transferee.  
       
  For the purpose of exercising any Options after the death of the Participant, the duly appointed executors and administrators of the estate of the deceased Participant shall have the same rights with respect to the Options as legatees or distributees would have after distribution to them from the Participant's estate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may authorize the transfer of Options upon such terms and conditions as the Committee may require. Such transfer shall become effective only upon the Committee's complete satisfaction that the proposed transferee has strictly complied with such terms and conditions, and both the original Participant and the transferee shall be subject to the same terms and conditions hereunder as the original Participant. 
    
  5.10        Notification of Disqualifying Disposition  . If any Participant shall make any disposition of Shares issued pursuant to the exercise of an ISO under the circumstances described in Section 421(b) of the Code (relating to certain disqualifying dispositions), such Participant shall notify the Company of such disposition within ten (10) days thereof. 

5.11        Substituting SARs  . In the event the Company no longer uses APB Opinion 25 to account for equity compensation and is required to or elects to expense the cost of Options pursuant to FAS 123 (or a successor standard), the Committee shall have the ability to substitute, without receiving Participant permission, SARs paid only in Stock (or SARs paid in Stock or cash at the Committee's discretion) for outstanding Options awarded after the adoption of FAS 123; provided, the terms of the substituted Stock SARs correspond in relevant respects to the terms of the Options and the difference between the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares and the Grant Price of the SARs is equivalent to the difference between the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares and the Option Price of the Options, as determined by the Committee. 
    
  5.12        ISOs.   The aggregate fair market value (determined at the time when the ISO is exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year) of the shares for which any Participant may be granted ISOs under the Plan and all other stock option plans of the Company and its subsidiaries in any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000 (or such other amount as reflected in the limits imposed by Section 422(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to time). 
    
           (a) 
    Unless otherwise authorized by the shareholders of the Company, neither the Board nor the Committee shall authorize the amendment of any Option to reduce the Option Price. This Paragraph shall not be construed to prohibit the adjustments permitted under Section 3.4 the Plan. 
       
           (b) 
    No Option shall be cancelled and replaced with awards having a lower Option Price without the prior approval of the shareholders of the Company. This Paragraph is intended to prohibit the repricing of  underwater  Options and shall not be construed to prohibit the adjustments permitted under Section 3.4 the Plan. 
       
           (c) 
    The Committee may require any Participant to accept any Option by means of electronic signature. 
       
           (d) 
    No Options granted after the Effective Time shall be exercisable within one (1) year from their date of grant, except in the case of the death of the Participant. 
       
  Article 6. Stock Appreciation Rights 
    
  6.1        Grant of SARs  . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. The Committee may grant Freestanding SARs, Tandem SARs, or any combination of these forms of SARs. 
    
  The Grant Price for each grant of a Freestanding SAR shall be determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement. The Grant Price for a Freestanding SAR shall be fixed and shall be equal to or greater than the FMV on the date of grant of the Shares subject to the Freestanding SAR. The Grant Price of Tandem SARs shall be equal to the Option Price of the related Option. 
    
  6.2        SAR Agreement  . Each SAR Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Grant Price, the maximum duration of the SAR, the number of Shares to which the SAR pertains, the conditions upon which a SAR shall become vested and exercisable, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine that are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan. 
  6.3        Duration of SAR  . Each SAR shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant; provided, however, that no SAR shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10   th   ) anniversary of the date of its grant. 
    
  6.4        Exercise of Freestanding SARs  . Freestanding SARs shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which terms and restrictions need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant. 
    
  6.5        Exercise of Tandem SARs  . Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or part of the Shares subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option. A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the Shares for which its related Option is then exercisable. 
    
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, with respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection with an ISO: (a) the Tandem SAR will expire no later than the expiration of the underlying ISO; (b) the value of the payout with respect to the Tandem SAR may be for no more than one hundred percent (100%) of the difference between the Option Price of the underlying ISO and the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the underlying ISO at the time the Tandem SAR is exercised; and (c) the Tandem SAR may be exercised only when the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the ISO exceeds the Option Price of the ISO. 

6.6        Payment of SAR Amount  . Upon the exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying: 
    
           (a) 
    The difference between the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise over the Grant Price; by 
       
           (b) 
    The number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised. 
       
  The payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, Shares, or any combination thereof, or in any other manner approved by the Committee. The Committee's determination regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR. 
    
  6.7        Termination of Employment  . In the event that a Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries while holding an unexercised SAR: 
    
           (a) 
    Any unexercisable portions thereof are then void, except in the case of: (1) death of the Participant; (2) Retirement or Special Separation that occurs more than six months from the date the SARs were granted; or (3) any SAR as to which the Committee has waived, at the time of grant, the provisions of this Section 6.7(a). 
       
           (b) 
    Any exercisable portions thereof are then void, except in the case of: (1) death of the Participant; (2) Retirement or Special Separation; or (3) any SAR as to which the Committee has waived, at the time of grant, the provisions of this Section 6.7(b). 
       
           (c) 
    In the case of a Special Separation which occurs prior to October 2, 2007, any SAR must be exercised within the time specified in the original grant or five (5) years from the date of Special Separation, whichever is shorter.     For a Special Separation which occurs on or after October 2, 2007, any SAR must be exercised within the time specified in the original grant. 
       
           (d) 
    In the case of the death of a Participant, the persons to whom SARs have been transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution shall have the privilege of exercising remaining stock appreciation rights or parts thereof, whether or not exercisable on the date of death of such Participant, at any time prior to the expiration date of the SARs. 
       
  6.8        Nontransferability of SARs  . Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement or otherwise at any time by the Committee, no SAR granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement or otherwise at any time by the Committee, all SARs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or, in the event of the legal incompetence of the Participant, by the Participant's duly appointed legal guardian. With respect to those SARs, if any, that are permitted to be transferred to another person, relevant references in the Plan to the Participant, as determined by the Committee, shall be deemed to include the Participant's permitted transferee. 
    
  For the purpose of exercising SARs after the death of the Participant, the duly appointed executors and administrators of the estate of the deceased Participant shall have the same rights with respect to the SARs as legatees or distributees would have after distribution to them from the Participant's estate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may authorize the transfer of SARs upon such terms and conditions as the Committee may require. Such transfer shall become effective only upon the Committee's complete satisfaction that the proposed transferee has strictly complied with such terms and conditions, and both the original Participant and the transferee shall be subject to the same terms and conditions hereunder as the original Participant. 
    
  6.9        Other Restrictions.   The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares received upon exercise of a SAR granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable or desirable. These restrictions may include, but shall not be limited to, a requirement that the Participant hold any Shares received upon exercise of a SAR for a specified period of time. 
    
  6.10  .   Additional Terms and Conditions. 
    
           (a) 
    Unless otherwise authorized by the shareholders of the Company, neither the Board nor the Committee shall authorize the amendment of any outstanding SAR to reduce the Grant Price. This Paragraph shall not be construed to prohibit the adjustments permitted under Section 3.4 the Plan. 

(b) 
    No SAR shall be cancelled and replaced with awards having a lower Grant Price without the prior approval of the shareholders of the Company. This Paragraph is intended to prohibit the repricing of  underwater  SARs and shall not be construed to prohibit the adjustments permitted under Section 3.4 of the Plan. 
       
           (c) 
    The Committee may require any Participant to accept any SAR by means of electronic signature. 
       
           (d) 
    No SARs granted after the Effective Time shall be exercisable within one (1) year from their date of grant, except in the case of the death of the Participant. 
       
  Article 7. Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units 
    
  7.1        Grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units  . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. 
    
  7.2        Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Agreement  . Each Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Unit grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock or the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, the conditions upon which Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall become vested, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine that are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan. 
    
  7.3        Transferability  . Except as provided in this Plan or an Award Agreement, the Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted herein may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction established by the Committee and specified in the Award Agreement or otherwise at anytime by the Committee (and in the case of Restricted Stock Units until the date of delivery or other payment), or upon earlier satisfaction of any other conditions, as specified by the Committee, and set forth in the Award Agreement or otherwise at any time by the Committee. All rights with respect to the Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be available during his or her lifetime only to such Participant or, in the event of the legal incompetence of the Participant, by the Participant's duly appointed legal guardian, except as otherwise provided in an Award Agreement or at any time by the Committee. 
    
  7.4        Other Restrictions  . The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock or each Restricted Stock Unit, restrictions based upon the achievement of specific performance goals, time-based restrictions, and/or restrictions under applicable laws or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are listed or traded, or holding requirements or sale restrictions placed on the Shares by the Company upon vesting of such Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units. 
    
  Except with respect to a maximum of five percent (5%) of the Shares authorized in Section 3.1(a) and disregarding the impact of Article 15, any Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units that vest on the basis of the Participant's continued employment with or provision of service to the Company shall provide for vesting at a rate that is not more rapid than annual pro rata vesting over a three (3) year period and any Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units that vest upon the attainment of performance goals shall provide for a performance period of at least twelve (12) months. 
    
  To the extent deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Company may retain the certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock in the Company's possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse. 
    
  After all conditions and restrictions under the Plan applicable to an Award under this Article 7 have been satisfied or have lapsed, including the satisfaction of all applicable tax withholding obligations, then (a) if the Award was an Award of Restricted Stock, the Shares subject to the Award shall be free of all transfer restrictions imposed under the Plan, and (b) if the Award was an Award of Restricted Stock Units, the Shares subject to the Award, or cash in lieu thereof, or a combination of Shares and cash, as the Committee determines, shall be issued and delivered to the holder of the Award. 
    
  7.5        Voting Rights  . Except as otherwise specified in an Award Agreement, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock shall have full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction. A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder except as to Shares actually issued and delivered under such Units. 
    
  7.6        Termination of Employment  . Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent, if any, to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units following termination of the Participant's employment with  

or provision of services to the Company and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined by the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination. 
    
  7.7        Section 83(b) Election  . The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement relating to Restricted Stock that the Award is conditioned upon the Participant making or refraining from making an election with respect to the Restricted Stock under Section 83(b) of the Code. If a Participant makes an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Code concerning Restricted Stock, the Participant shall be required to file promptly a copy of such election with the Company. 
    
  Article 8. Performance Shares 
    
  8.1        Grant of Performance Shares  . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Performance Shares may be granted in such number, and upon such terms, which may include requirements of continued service as well as performance conditions, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. Each Award under this Article 8 shall specify the performance measures applicable to the Award, as determined by the Committee, and the period or periods (each, a  Performance Period ) over which the performance measures so determined are to be measured. Each Performance Share shall be expressed in units of Shares or fractions or multiples of Shares and shall provide for payout, if the applicable performance and other Award conditions are met, based on the value of the underlying Shares, or on appreciation in such value, or on such other Share-related measures of value as the Committee may determine. For the avoidance of doubt, an Award granted under Articles 5, 6, 7 or 9 may provide for the acceleration of vesting or payment upon the satisfaction of performance conditions and shall not thereby be considered a Performance Share Award under this Article 8, but a share based Award that would otherwise be described in Articles 5, 6, 7 or 9 but under which the satisfaction of performance conditions (other than service) is a precondition to any vesting or exercisability shall be considered a Performance Share for purposes of the Plan. 
    
  8.2        Payment of Performance Shares  . Subject to the terms of this Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of a Performance Share shall be entitled to receive such payout, if any, as the Committee determines is owed based on the terms of the Award. Payment with respect to a Performance Share may be made in the form of cash or in Shares (or in a combination thereof), as the Committee determines. 
    
  8.3        Termination of Employment  . Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent, if any, to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Performance Shares following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined by the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Awards of Performance Shares issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination. 
    
  8.4        Nontransferability  . Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement or otherwise at any time by the Committee, Performance Shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement or otherwise at any time by the Committee, a Participant's rights under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant, or, in the event of the legal incompetence of the Participant, by the Participant's duly appointed legal guardian. With respect to those Performance Shares, if any, that are permitted to be transferred to another person, relevant references in the Plan to a Participant, as determined by the Committee, shall be deemed to include the Participant's permitted transferee. 
    
  Article 9. Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards 
    
  9.1        Grant of Cash-Based Awards  . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Cash-Based Awards may be granted in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. Each such Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the maximum duration of the Cash-Based Award, the amount of cash to which the Cash-Based Award pertains, the conditions upon which the Cash-Based Award shall become vested or exercisable, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine which are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan. 
    
  9.2        Other Stock-Based Awards  . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Other Stock-Based Awards may be granted in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. Such Awards shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the maximum duration of the Other Stock-Based Award, the number of Shares to which the Other Stock-Based Award pertains, the conditions upon which the Other Stock-Based Award shall become vested and exercisable, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine which are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan. 

9.3        Payment of Cash-Based and Other Stock-Based Awards  . Each Cash-Based Award shall specify a cash-denominated payment amount or payment ranges as determined by the Committee. Each Other Stock-Based Award shall be expressed in terms of Shares or units based on Shares, as determined by the Committee. Payment, if any, with respect to a Cash-Based Award or an Other Stock-Based Award shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Award and, subject to such terms, may be made under either form of Award in cash or in Shares, as the Committee determines. 
    
  9.4        Termination of Employment  . Each Participant's Award Agreement shall set forth the extent, if any, to which the Participant shall have the right to receive payment under Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined by the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination. 
    
  9.5        Nontransferability  . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, neither Cash-Based Awards nor Other Stock-Based Awards may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided by the Committee, a Participant's rights under the Plan, if exercisable, shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant, or, in the event of the legal incompetence of the Participant, by the Participant's duly appointed legal guardian. With respect to those Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards, if any, that are permitted to be transferred to another person, relevant references in the Plan to a Participant, as determined by the Committee, shall be deemed to include the Participant's permitted transferee. 
    
  Article 10. Performance Measures 
    
  10.1        Performance Measures.   The performance goals upon which the payment or vesting of an Award to a Covered Employee that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation shall be objectively determinable goals based upon one or more of the following Performance Measures: 
    
           (a) 
    Net earnings or net income (before or after taxes); 
       
           (b) 
    Net income per share; 
       
           (c) 
    Net sales growth; 
       
           (d) 
    Net operating profit; 
       
           (e) 
    Return measures (including, but not limited to, return on invested capital, assets, equity, or net sales); 
       
           (f) 
    Cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow, free cash flow, and cash flow return on capital); 
       
           (g) 
    Income before or after taxes, interest, depreciation, and/or amortization; 
       
           (h) 
    Gross or operating margins; 
       
           (i) 
    Productivity ratios; 
       
           (j) 
    Share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures and total stockholder return); 
       
           (k) 
    Expense targets; 
       
           (l) 
    Margins; 
       
           (m) 
    Operating efficiency; 
       
           (n) 
    Working capital targets; and 
       
           (o) 
    Economic Value Added or EVA       (net operating profit after taxes minus the sum of capital multiplied by the cost of capital). 

Performance Measures may be applied to any or any combination of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis or, as the context permits, on a divisional, entity, line of business, project or geographical basis or in combinations thereof. If the Committee so determines, performance goals may relate to performance under one or more of the Performance Measures as hereinabove described compared to the performance of a group of comparator companies or another index or indices. The Committee also has the authority to provide for accelerated vesting of any Award based on the achievement of performance goals pursuant to the Performance Measures specified in this Article 10. 
    
  10.2        Evaluation of Performance.   The Committee may provide in any such Award that any evaluation of performance may include or exclude any of the following events that are objectively determinable and that occur during a Performance Period: (a) asset write-downs, (b) litigation, claims, judgments, or settlements, (c) the effect of changes in tax laws, accounting principles, or other laws or provisions affecting reported results, (d) any reorganization and restructuring programs, (e) extraordinary nonrecurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company's annual report to stockholders for the applicable year, (f) acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, or alliances, and (g) foreign exchange gains and losses. To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Covered Employees, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility. 
    
  10.3        Adjustment of Performance-Based Compensation.   Awards that are designed to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, and that are held by Covered Employees, may not be adjusted upward. The Committee may adjust such Awards downward, either on a formula or a discretionary basis or any combination, as the Committee determines. 
    
  10.4        Other Changes.   In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit Committee discretion to alter the governing Performance Measures without obtaining stockholder approval of such changes, the Committee may make such changes without obtaining stockholder approval. In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards that shall not qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and may base vesting on Performance Measures other than those set forth in Section 10.1. 
    
  Article 11. Dividend Equivalents 
    
  Any Participant selected by the Committee may be granted dividend equivalents based on the dividends declared on Shares that are subject to any Award but that have not been issued or delivered, to be credited as of dividend payment dates during the period between the date the Award is granted and the date the Award is exercised, vests or expires, as determined by the Committee. Such dividend equivalents shall be converted to cash or additional Shares by such formula and at such time and subject to such limitations as may be determined by the Committee. 
    
  Article 12. Additional Conditions of Awards 
    
  Except as otherwise provided in the Merger Agreement or in any employment agreement (including any amendment thereto) entered between an Employee Participant and the Company before January 28, 2005, the following additional provisions shall govern Awards granted under the Plan. 
    
  12.1A        Additional Conditions of Awards Granted in or after May 2005. 
    
  With respect to any Awards granted in or after May 2005, in addition to such other conditions as may be established by the Committee, in consideration of the granting of any Award under the terms of the Plan, including, without limitation, any Option, SAR, RSU, or grant of Shares, each Participant agrees as follows: 
    
           (a) 
    The right to exercise any Award shall be conditional upon certification by the Participant at time of exercise that the Participant intends to remain in the employ of the Company or one of its subsidiaries for at least one (1) year following the date of the exercise of the Award (provided that termination of employment due to Retirement or Special Separation shall not constitute a breach of such certification). 
       
           (b) 
    In order to better protect the goodwill of the Company and its subsidiaries and to prevent the disclosure of the Company's or its subsidiaries' trade secrets and confidential information and thereby help insure the long-term success of the business, the Participant, without prior written consent of the Company, will not engage in any activity or provide any services, whether as a director, manager, supervisor, employee, adviser, consultant or otherwise, for a period of three (3) years following the date of the Participant's termination of employment with the Company for any reason, in connection with the manufacture, development, advertising, promotion, or sale of any product which is the same as or similar to or competitive with: 

(i) 
    any business of The Gillette Company or its subsidiaries immediately prior to the Effective Time (including as relates to both existing products as well as products known to the Participant, as a consequence of the Participant's employment with The Gillette Company or its subsidiaries, to be in development); or 
       
           (ii) 
    any business of The Procter   Gamble Company or its subsidiaries in which the Participant was employed following the Effective Time (including as relates to both existing products as well as products known to the Participant, as a consequence of the Participant's employment with The Procter   Gamble Company or one of its subsidiaries, to be in development), 
       
  with respect to which, in either case, the Participant's work has been directly involved at any time during the two (2) years preceding termination of employment or with respect to which during that period of time the Participant acquired knowledge of trade secrets or other confidential information of The Gillette Company, The Procter   Gamble Company, and/or any of their subsidiaries as a result of Participant's job performance and duties. 
    
  For purposes of this paragraph, it shall be conclusively presumed that Participants have knowledge of information they were directly exposed to through actual receipt or review of memos or documents containing such information, or through actual attendance at meetings at which such information was discussed or disclosed. 
    
           (c) 
    Following the Effective Time, unless otherwise provided pursuant to a termination settlement agreement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, while the Participant is employed by the Company and for a period of eighteen (18) months after the termination or cessation of such employment for any reason , the Participant shall not directly or indirectly, either alone or in association with others: (i) solicit or encourage any employee or independent contractor of the Company to terminate his or her relationship with the Company; or (ii) recruit, hire or solicit for employment or for engagement as an independent contractor, any person who is or was employed by the Company at any time during the Participant's employment with the Company; provided, that this Paragraph (c) shall not apply to such person whose employment with the Company has been terminated for a period of six months or longer. 
       
           (d) 
    The Participant agrees not to use or disclose the Company's or its subsidiaries' trade secrets and confidential information known to the Participant until any particular trade secret or confidential information become generally known (through no fault of the Participant), whereupon the restriction on use and disclosure shall cease as to that item. Information regarding products in development, in test marketing or being marketed or promoted in a discrete geographic region, which information the Company or one of its subsidiaries is considering for broader use, shall not be deemed generally known until such broader use is actually commercially implemented. As used in this Section,  generally known  means known throughout the domestic U. S. industry or, in the case of Participants who have job responsibilities outside of the United States, the appropriate foreign country or countries' industry. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Participant shall not: 
       
           (i) 
    Disclose or use at any time any secret or confidential information or knowledge obtained or acquired by the Participant during, after, or by reason of, employment with The Gillette Company or any of its subsidiaries, as provided under applicable law and any and all agreements between the Participant and The Gillette Company or any of its subsidiaries regarding Participant's employment with The Gillette Company or the subsidiary; and 
       
           (ii) 
    Disclose or use at any time any secret or confidential information or knowledge obtained or acquired by the Participant during, after, or by reason of, employment with The Procter   Gamble Company or any of its subsidiaries, as provided under applicable law and any and all agreements between the Participant and The Procter   Gamble Company or any of its subsidiaries regarding Participant's employment with The Procter   Gamble Company or the subsidiary. 
       
           (e) 
    Following the Effective Time, to the extent permitted by law, the Participant shall not make, publish or state, or cause to be made, published or stated, any defamatory or disparaging statement, writing or communication pertaining to the character, reputation, business practices, competence or conduct of the Company, its subsidiaries, stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives or successors. 
       
           (f) 
    In accordance with any and all agreements between the Participant and the Company or any of its subsidiaries regarding the Participant's employment, the Participant shall disclose promptly and transfer and assign to the  

Company all improvements and inventions in certain fields made or conceived by the Participant during employment with the Company or its subsidiaries and within the prescribed periods thereafter. 
    
           (g) 
    By acceptance of any offered Option, SAR, RSU, grant of Shares, or any other Award granted under the terms of the Plan, the Participant acknowledges that if the Participant were, without authority, to use, disclose, or threaten the use or disclosure of the trade secrets or confidential information of The Gillette Company or its subsidiaries or, following the Effective Time, of The Procter   Gamble Company or its subsidiaries, the Company or one of its subsidiaries would be entitled to injunctive and other appropriate relief to prevent the Participant from doing so. The Participant acknowledges that the harm caused to the Company by the breach or anticipated breach of this Article is by its nature irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of proof as to the monetary harm that would ensue. The Participant consents that any interim or final equitable relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction shall, at the request of the Company or one of its subsidiaries, be entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over the Participant, without prejudice to any rights either party may have to appeal from the proceedings which resulted in any grant of such relief. 
       
  12.1B        Additional Conditions of Awards Granted Before May 2005. 
    
  With respect to any Awards granted before May 2005, in addition to such other conditions as may be established by the Committee, in consideration of the granting of any Award under the terms of the Plan, including, without limitation, any Option, SAR, RSU, or grant of Shares, each Participant agrees as follows: 
    
           (a)  
    Unless otherwise provided pursuant to a termination settlement agreement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, while the Participant is employed by the Company and for a period of eighteen (18) months after the termination or cessation of such employment for any reason, the Participant shall not directly or indirectly: 
       
           (i) 
    As an employee, consultant, independent contractor, officer, director, individual proprietor, investor, partner, stockholder, agent, principal, joint venturer, or in any other capacity whatsoever (other than as the holder of not more than one percent of the combined voting power of the outstanding stock of a publicly held corporation or company), be employed, work, consult, advise, assist, or engage in any activity regarding any business, product, service or other matter which: (A) is substantially similar to or competes with any business, product, service or other matter regarding which the Participant worked for the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, during the three (3) years prior to Participant's termination of employment; or (B) concerns subject matters about which Participant gained proprietary information of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, during the three (3) year period prior to the Participant's termination of employment; 
       
           (ii) 
    Either alone or in association with others, solicit, divert or take away, or attempt to divert or to take away, the business or patronage of any of the clients, customers or accounts, or prospective clients, customers or accounts, of the Company which were contacted, solicited or served, directly or indirectly, by Participant while employed by the Company; or 
       
           (iii) 
    Either alone or in association with others: (A) solicit or encourage any employee or independent contractor of the Company to terminate his or her relationship with the Company; or (B) recruit, hire or solicit for employment or for engagement as an independent contractor, any person who is or was employed by the Company at any time during the Participant's employment with the Company; provided, that this Paragraph (iii) shall not apply to such person whose employment with the Company has been terminated for a period of six months or longer. 
       
           (b) 
    The Participant shall not disclose or use at any time any secret or confidential information or knowledge obtained or acquired by the Participant during, after, or by reason of, employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, as provided under applicable law and any and all agreements between the Participant and the Company or any of its subsidiaries regarding Participant's employment with the Company or the subsidiary. 
       
           (c) 
    In accordance with any and all agreements between the Participant and the Company or any of its subsidiaries regarding the Participant's employment, the Participant shall disclose promptly and transfer and assign to the Company all improvements and inventions in certain fields made or conceived by the Participant during employment with the Company or the subsidiary and within the prescribed periods thereafter. 

(d) 
    To the extent permitted by law, the Participant shall not make, publish or state, or cause to be made, published or stated, any defamatory or disparaging statement, writing or communication pertaining to the character, reputation, business practices, competence or conduct of the Company, its subsidiaries, stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives or successors. 
       
  12.2        Scope of Provisions.   If any of the provisions contained in Section 12.1A and 12.1B hereof shall for any reason, whether by application of existing law or law which may develop after the Participant's acceptance of an offer of the granting of an Award, be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be overly broad as to scope of activity, duration, or territory, the Participant agrees to join the Company or any of its subsidiaries in requesting such court to construe such provision by limiting or reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent compatible with then applicable law. If any one or more of the terms, provisions, covenants, or restrictions of this Article shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, then the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants, and restrictions of this Article shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired, or invalidated. 
    
  12.3        Effect of Change of Control on Conditions.   In the event of a Change of Control, the restrictions contained in Sections 12.1B (a)(i), 12.1B(a)(iii) and 12.1B(d) hereof shall cease and the Participant shall no longer be bound by the obligations thereunder. However, the provisions of Section 12.1A hereof shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding a Change of Control. 
    
  12.4 Consequences of Violation of Conditions.   If the Company reasonably determines that a Participant has materially violated any of the Participant's obligations under Section 12.1A or Section 12.1B above, or if a Participant is terminated for Cause, then, in addition to any other remedies provided in this Plan and available at law or in equity (including, without limitation, injunctive and other appropriate relief), the Company may cancel any and all Awards granted to the Participant, including grants that according to their terms are vested. 
    
  12.5        Effect on Other Non-Competition Restrictions.   The non-competition restrictions set forth in Section 12.1B(a) supersede any non-competition restrictions of less than eighteen (18) months in duration set forth in any employment agreement between a Participant and the Company or any subsidiary or predecessor. 
    
  Article 13. Deferrals 
    
  The Committee may permit or require a Participant to defer such Participant's receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant by virtue of the exercise of an Option or SAR, the lapse or waiver of restrictions with respect to Restricted Stock Units, or payment in respect of Performance Shares, Cash-Based Awards, and Other Stock-Based Awards. If any such deferral election is required or permitted, the Committee shall establish rules and procedures for such payment deferrals. 
    
  Article 14. Rights of Participants 
    
  14.1        Employment  . Nothing in the Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries to terminate any Participant's employment or service on the Board at any time or for any reason or confer upon any Participant any right to continue his or her employment or service as a Nonemployee Director for any specified period of time. 
    
  Neither an Award nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute an employment contract with the Company and/or its Subsidiaries. Subject to Articles 2 and 16, this Plan and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time pursuant to Article 16 without giving rise to any liability on the part of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries. 
    
  14.2        Participation  . No individual shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award. 
    
  14.3        Rights as a Stockholder  . Except as otherwise provided herein, a Participant shall have none of the rights of a stockholder with respect to Shares covered by any Award until the Participant becomes the record holder of such Shares. 
    
  Article 15. Covered Transactions and Change of Control 
    
  15.1        Covered Transactions.   Unless otherwise specified in an Award Agreement, in the event of a  covered transaction  (as hereinafter defined) in which there is an acquiring or surviving entity, the Committee may provide for the assumption of some or all outstanding Awards, or for the grant of new Awards in substitution therefor, by the acquirer or survivor or an affiliate of the acquirer or survivor, in each case on such terms and subject to such conditions as the Committee determines. The terms and  

conditions of any substitute Award shall be substantially equivalent to the terms and conditions of the Award that it replaces, taking into account changes necessitated by the covered transaction, all as determined by the Committee. In the absence of such an assumption or if there is no substitution, except as otherwise provided in the Award each Stock Option, SAR and other Award requiring exercise will become fully exercisable, and the delivery of Shares or cash issuable or payable under each other outstanding Award will be accelerated, prior to the covered transaction, in each case (where Shares are to be delivered) on a basis that gives the holder of the Award a reasonable opportunity, as determined by the Committee, following exercise of the Award or the issuance of the Shares, as the case may be, to participate as a stockholder in the covered transaction, and the Award will terminate upon consummation of the covered transaction. In the case of Restricted Stock or other Award subject to restrictions, the Committee may require that any amounts delivered, exchanged or otherwise paid in respect of such Shares or under the Award in connection with the covered transaction be placed in escrow or otherwise made subject to such restrictions as the Committee deems appropriate to carry out the intent of the Plan. For purposes of the foregoing, a  covered transaction  is any of (i) a consolidation, merger, or similar transaction or series of related transactions in which the Company is not the surviving corporation or which results in the acquisition of all or substantially all of the Company's then outstanding common stock by a single person or entity or by a group of persons and/or entities acting in concert, (ii) a sale or transfer of all or substantially all the Company's assets, or (iii) a dissolution or liquidation of the Company. Where a covered transaction involves a tender offer that is reasonably expected to be followed by a merger described in clause (i) (as determined by the Committee), the covered transaction shall be deemed to have occurred upon consummation of the tender offer. 
    
  15.2         Change of Control of the Company  . Unless otherwise specified in an Award Agreement or an employment agreement between an Employee Participant and the Company, in the event of a Change of Control, whether or not such Change of Control also constitutes a  covered transaction  as defined in Section 15.1 above, the following provisions shall apply, subject to Section 19.A hereof and the Merger Agreement. In the case of a transaction that qualifies as both a Change of Control and a  covered transaction  as so defined, the vesting provisions of this Section 15.2 shall be applied whether or not there is an assumption or substitution under Section 15.1, but the provisions of this Section 15.2 relating to exercise or enjoyment of an Award following the Change of Control shall apply only to the extent the Award is continued (through assumption or substitution) in connection with the transaction. 
    
           (a) 
    All outstanding Options and SARs held by Participants which are not yet exercisable on the date such Change of Control first occurs shall become immediately exercisable and all the rights and benefits relating to such Options and SARs including, but not limited to, periods during which such Options and SARs may be exercised shall become fixed and not subject to change or revocation by the Company except as otherwise provided under Article 16; 
       
           (b) 
    In the event that, within two (2) years of a Change of Control, the employment of an employee Participant is terminated by the Company for any reason other than for Cause, or the employee Participant terminates employment for Good Reason, or the service as a Nonemployee Director is terminated, the applicable exercise period for all Options and SARs (including substituted or assumed Awards, if any, in the case of a Change of Control that is also subject to Section 15.1) held by him or her at termination of employment shall be the greater of (i) a period of two (2) years from the date of termination, and (ii) the post-termination exercise period otherwise applicable to the employee Participant pursuant to Section 5.8 or 6.7, as applicable, as prescribed by the Committee or set forth in the employee Participant's Award Agreement; provided, however, that in no event shall any Option or SAR be exercisable beyond ten (10) years from its date of grant; 
       
           (c) 
    Any Period of Restriction and restrictions imposed on Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, and, any Shares subject to Restricted Stock Unit Awards shall be delivered on a basis that gives the holder of the Award a reasonable opportunity, as determined by the Committee, to participate as a stockholder in the Change of Control transaction; 
       
           (d) 
    The target payout opportunities attainable under all outstanding Awards subject to performance conditions shall be deemed to have been fully earned on the same basis as if targeted performance had been attained for the Performance Period; 
       
           (i) 
    The vesting of all Awards denominated in Shares shall be accelerated as of the effective date of the Change of Control, and shall be paid out to Participants prior to the effective date of the Change of Control. The Committee has the authority to pay all or any portion of the value of the Shares in cash; and 
       
           (ii) 
    Awards denominated in cash shall be paid to Participants in cash prior to the effective date of the Change of Control; and 

(e) 
    Upon a Change of Control, unless otherwise specifically provided in a written agreement entered into between the Participant and the Company, all conditions for payment to which outstanding Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards may be subject will be deemed satisfied, and the Committee shall pay out all such Awards. 
       
  Article 16. Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination 
    
  16.1        Amendment of the Plan or Awards.   The Board of Directors or the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan or any Award Agreement in whole or in part; provided, however, that, no amendment of the Plan shall be made without shareholder approval if shareholder approval is required by law, regulation, or stock exchange rule; and further provided no such amendment shall adversely affect the rights of any Participant (without his or her consent) under any Award theretofore granted or other contractual arrangements entered into before or after a  covered transaction  or Change of Control or deprive any Participant of any right or benefit which became operative in the event of a  covered transaction  or Change of Control. 
    
  16.2        Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events  . The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 3.4 hereof) affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan. The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under the Plan. In the case of performance-based awards to a Covered Employee that are intended to be exempt under Section 162(m) of the Code, adjustments by the Committee shall be made consistent with Article 10 and only to the extent consistent with such exemption. 
    
  16.3        Replacement Awards.   The Company may grant Awards under the Plan on terms differing from those provided for in the Plan where such Awards are granted in substitution for Awards held by employees of other corporations who concurrently become employees of the Company or a subsidiary as the result of a merger or consolidation of the employing corporation with the Company or subsidiary, or the acquisition by the Company or a subsidiary of property or stock of the employing corporation. The Committee may direct that the substitute Awards be granted on such terms and conditions as the Committee considers appropriate in the circumstances. Shares subject to a substitute or replacement Award granted pursuant to this Section 16.3, or subject to Awards assumed in connection with a transaction described in this Section 16.3, shall not count against the Share limitations described in Article 3, nor shall the Award limitations described in Article 3 apply to such substitute, replacement, or assumed Awards, in each case except as may otherwise be required to satisfy the ISO rules under Section 422 of the Code or other applicable legal or stock exchange requirements. 
    
  Article 17. Withholding 
    
  17.1        Tax Withholding  . The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, such amounts as the Company determines are necessary or desirable to satisfy, or are required by law or regulation to be withheld, with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Plan. 
    
  17.2        Share Withholding  . With respect to withholding required upon the exercise of Options or SARs, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, or upon the achievement of performance goals related to Performance Shares, or any other taxable event arising as a result of an Award granted hereunder, Participants may elect, subject to the approval of the Committee, to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory total tax that could be imposed on the transaction. All such elections shall be irrevocable, made in writing, and signed by the Participant, and shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations that the Committee deems appropriate. 
    
  Article 18. Successors 
    
  All obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, its business or its assets whether by direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise. 
    
  Article 19. General Provisions 
    
  19.1        Forfeiture Events  . The Committee may specify in an Award Agreement that the Participant's rights, payments, and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, or recoupment upon the occurrence of  

certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events may include, but shall not be limited to, termination of employment for cause, termination of the Participant's provision of services to the Company and/or Subsidiary, violation of material Company and/or Subsidiary policies, breach of noncompetition, confidentiality, or other restrictive covenants that may apply to the Participant, or other conduct by the Participant that is detrimental to the business or reputation of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries. 
    
  19.2        Legend  . The certificates for Shares may include any legend which the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer of such Shares. 
    
  19.3        Severability  .     In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included. 
    
  19.4        Requirements of Law  .     The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required. 
    
  19.5        Inability to Obtain Authority  .     The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. 
    
  19.6        Investment Representations  .     The Committee may require any person receiving Shares pursuant to an Award under this Plan to represent and warrant in writing that the person is acquiring the Shares for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares. 
    
  19.7        Employees Based Outside of the United States  . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in order to comply with the laws in other countries in which the Company and/or its Subsidiaries operate or have Employees and/or Nonemployee Directors, the Committee shall have the power and authority, in addition to such power and authority it otherwise has under the Plan, to: 
    
           (a) 
    Determine which Subsidiaries shall be covered by the Plan;\ 
       
           (b) 
    Determine which Employees and/or Nonemployee Directors outside the United States are eligible to participate in the Plan; 
       
           (c) 
    Modify the terms and conditions of any Award granted to Employees and/or Nonemployee Directors, outside the United States to comply with applicable foreign laws; 
       
           (d) 
    Establish subplans and modify exercise procedures and other terms and procedures, to the extent such actions may be necessary or advisable. Any subplans and modifications to Plan terms and procedures established under this Section 19.7 by the Committee shall be attached to this Plan document as appendices; and 
       
           (e) 
    Take any action, before or after an Award is made, that it deems advisable to obtain approval or comply with any necessary local government regulatory exemptions or approvals. 
       
  Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no Awards shall be granted, that would violate applicable law. 
    
  19.8        Uncertificated Shares  . To the extent that the Plan provides for issuance of certificates to reflect the transfer of Shares, the transfer of such Shares may be effected on a noncertificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange. 
    
  19.9        Unfunded Plan  .     Participants shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company, and/or its Subsidiaries may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative, or any other person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company and/or its Subsidiaries under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid  

from the general funds of the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in the Plan. The Plan is not subject to ERISA. 
    
  19.10        No Fractional Shares  . No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, Awards, or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated. 
    
  19.11        Retirement and Welfare Plans  . Neither Awards made under the Plan nor Shares or cash paid pursuant to such Awards, except pursuant to Covered Employee Annual Incentive Awards, will be included as  compensation  for purposes of computing the benefits payable to any Participant under the Company's or any Subsidiary's retirement plans (both qualified and non-qualified) or welfare benefit plans unless such other plan expressly provides that such compensation shall be taken into account in computing a participant's benefit. 
    
  19.12        Nonexclusivity of the Plan  . The adoption of this Plan shall not be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or Committee, or the Company or any Subsidiary, to adopt such other compensation arrangements as it may deem desirable in the case of any Participant. 
    
  19.13        No Constraint on Corporate Action.   Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to: (i) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Company's or a Subsidiary's right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets; or, (ii) limit the right or power of the Company or a Subsidiary to take any other action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate. 
    
  19.14        Governing Law  . 
    
           (a) 
    Prior to Effective Time:   Except as to matters concerning the issuance of Shares or other matters of corporate governance, which shall be construed under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Plan and each Award outstanding under it shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Recipients of an Award under the Plan are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Massachusetts, to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to the Plan or any Award. 
       
           (b) 
    Upon and following Effective Time  : The Plan and each Award outstanding under it shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio, United States of America, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Recipients of an Award under the Plan are deemed to submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Ohio, and any other appropriate jurisdiction and venue, to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to the Plan or any Award. 
       
  19.15.        Consent  . Every Participant who receives or has received an Option, SAR, RSU, grant of Shares, or any other Award pursuant to the Plan shall be bound by the terms and provisions of the Plan and of the Option, SAR, RSU, Share, or other Award Agreement referable thereto, and the acceptance of any Option, SAR, RSU, Share, or other Award pursuant to the Plan shall constitute a binding agreement between the Participant and the Company and its subsidiaries and any successors in interest to any of them. Every Person who receives an Option, SAR, RSU, Share, or other Award from a Participant pursuant to the Plan shall, in addition to such terms and conditions as the Committee may require upon such grant, be bound by the terms and provisions of the Plan and of the Option, SAR, RSU, Share, or other Award Agreement referable thereto, and the acceptance of any Option, SAR, RSU, Share, or other Award by such Person shall constitute a binding agreement between such Person and the Company and its subsidiaries and any successors in interest to any of them. 
    
  Article 19A. Special Merger Provisions 
    
  19A.1        Acceleration of Certain Options.   Except as provided in Section 19A.3, each Option outstanding under the Plan on January 27, 2005 (the  Accelerated Options ) shall be vested and fully exercisable effective immediately prior to the Effective Time as determined by the Authorized Officer. 
    
  19A.2        Special Merger Elections.   Under procedures established by the Authorized Officer, each holder of an Accelerated Option may exercise such Accelerated Option immediately prior to the Effective Time, in whole or in part, and in respect thereof  

shall be entitled to receive, at such holder's election, either (i) the Merger Shares or (ii) a cash payment equal to the product of (A) the excess (if any) of the per share value of the Merger Shares over the per share exercise price, multiplied by (B) the number of Shares with respect to which the Accelerated Option is exercised, in each case subject to applicable withholding taxes. 
    
  19A.3        Terms and Conditions of 2005 Options.   Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary, grants of 2005 Options under the Plan shall not relate to more than 11,500,000 Shares. Each 2005 Option shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, subject to the provisions of the Plan as revised;   provided, however,   that (i) no 2005 Option shall be subject to accelerated vesting upon consummation of the Merger, but (ii) each 2005 Option shall become fully vested and exercisable following the consummation of the Merger in the event the employment of the employee Participant holder thereof is terminated by the Company or its affiliates other than for Cause, or such holder terminates employment for Good Reason or, in the case of a Participant eligible for retirement under the Company's benefit plans, for Retirement. 
    
  19A.4.        Termination Following the Effective Time  . Unless otherwise provided under the terms of an employment agreement with the Company or its subsidiaries, notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan, a termination of employment for Good Reason within two (2) years of the Effective Time shall be treated for purposes of Accelerated Options and 2005 Options as (A) a Special Separation or (B) in the case of a Participant eligible for retirement under the Company's benefit plans, as a Retirement. 
    
  19A.5        Post-Merger Conversion of Outstanding Accelerated Options and 2005 Options.   Each Accelerated Option and 2005 Option outstanding at the Effective Time (together,  Gillette Stock Options ) shall cease to represent a right to acquire Shares and, after the Effective Time, shall be deemed an option to acquire, on the same terms and conditions as were applicable under the Gillette Stock Option (but taking into account any applicable changes thereto provided for in this Plan as revised or by reason of the Merger Agreement), that number of shares of Parent Common Stock determined by multiplying the number of Shares subject to such Gillette Stock Option by the Exchange Ratio, rounded, if necessary, to the nearest whole share of Parent Common Stock, at a price per share (rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of a cent) equal to the per share exercise price specified in such Gillette Stock Option divided by the Exchange Ratio;   provided, however,   that in the case of any Gillette Stock Option to which Section 421 of the Code applies by reason of its qualification under Section 422 of the Code, the option price, the number of shares subject to such option and, except to the extent otherwise required by the Plan as revised, the terms and conditions of exercise of such option shall be determined in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 424(a) of the Code. 
    
  19A.6.        Provisions concerning Options to Nonemployee Directors.   Options held by Nonemployee Directors of The Gillette Company immediately prior to the Effective Time must be exercised within the term of the original grant or within five (5) years from the Effective Time, whichever is shorter. 
    
  19A.7        Assumption of Gillette Stock Options and Certain Undertakings. 
    
           (a)  
    Subject to the terms of the Merger Agreement, on the Effective Time The Procter   Gamble Company shall assume the Plan (as revised herein) and each Gillette Stock Option. To the extent permitted by law but not in derogation of the provisions of this Article 19A, The Procter   Gamble Company shall take such reasonable steps as may be necessary to cause the Gillette Stock Options which qualified under Section 422 of Code as incentive stock options prior to the Effective Time to continue to qualify as incentive stock options of The Procter   Gamble Company after the Effective Time. 
       
           (b) 
    Not later than five (5) business days after the Effective Time, The Procter   Gamble Company shall file a registration statement on Form S-3 or Form S-8, as the case may be (or any successor or other appropriate forms), with respect to the shares of Parent Common Stock subject to such Gillette Stock Options and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement or registration statements (and maintain the current status of the prospectus or prospectuses contained therein) for so long as such Options remain outstanding or for so long as such registration statement is required with respect to the Plan. The Procter   Gamble Company shall administer the Plan in a manner consistent with the exemptions provided by Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act. 
       
  Article 20. Definitions 
    
  Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized. 
    
  20.1         Accelerated Options    has the meaning accorded such term in Article 19A. 

20.2         Annual Award Limit  or  Annual Award Limits    have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3. 
    
  20.3         Authorized Officer    means each of (i) the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, (ii) the Vice Chairman, (iii) the Senior Vice President, Finance, and Chief Financial Officer, (iv) the Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development, (v) the Senior Vice President and General Counsel, (vi) the Secretary and (vii) such other officers of the Company as any of the foregoing may designate in writing  . 
    
  20.4         Award    means, individually or collectively, a grant under this Plan of Cash-Based Awards, Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, or Other Stock-Based Awards, in each case subject to the terms of this Plan. 
    
  20.5         Award Agreement    means an agreement entered into and executed by the Company and a Participant setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to an Award granted under this Plan. 
    
  20.6         Board    or    Board of Directors    means the Board of Directors of the Company. 
    
  20.7         Cash-Based Award    means an Award granted to a Participant as described in Section 9.1. 
    
  20.8         Cause   : For the purposes of the Plan, unless otherwise provided under the terms of an employment agreement with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, in which case the definition contained therein shall control, a discharge for  Cause  shall have occurred where a Participant is terminated because of: 
    
           (a) 
    The Participant's continued failure to perform substantially his or her duties with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for performance is delivered to Participant by an officer or a senior manager of the Company or the Subsidiary which identifies the manner in which the Board or the elected officer or manager believes that Participant has not performed his or her duties; 
       
           (b) 
    The Participant's engaging in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company or the subsidiary; or 
       
           (c) 
    The Participant's conviction of a felony or a plea of nolo contendere by Participant with respect to a felony. 
       
  20.9         Change of Control    means any of the following events: 
    
           (a) 
    The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) (a  Person ) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (A) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the  Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or (B) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the  Outstanding Company Voting Securities  provided, however, that, for purposes of this Paragraph (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Paragraph (c) below; 
       
           (b) 
    Individuals who, as of December 16, 1999, constitute the Board of Directors (the  Board ) of the Company (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date thereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; 
       
           (c) 
    Consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the  

Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for such Business Combination; or 
    
           (d) 
    Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. 
       
  20.10         Closing    means     the closing of the Merger upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in Article 6 of the Merger Agreement. 
    
  20.11         Code    means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. 
    
  20.12        "Committee    means: 
    
           (a) 
    If describing rights, obligations, conditions, and/or circumstances prior to the Effective Time, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of The Gillette Company. 
       
           (b) 
    If describing rights, obligations, conditions, and/or circumstances at or following the Effective Time, the Compensation   Leadership Development Committee (or its functional successor by another name) of The Procter   Gamble Company. 
       
  20.13         Company    means: 
    
           (a) 
    If describing rights, obligations, conditions, and/or circumstances prior to the Effective Time, The Gillette Company, a Delaware corporation; 
       
           (b) 
    If describing rights, obligations, conditions, and/or circumstances at or following the Effective Time, The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation. 
       
  20.14         Company Stock Option Plans    means the Plan and the Prior Plan. 
    
  20.15         Covered Employee    means a Participant who is a  covered employee,  as defined in Code Section 162(m) and the regulations promulgated under Code Section 162(m), or any successor statute. 
    
  20.16         Effective Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1. 
    
  20.17         Effective Time    has the meaning accorded such term in the Merger Agreement. 
    
  20.18         Employee    means any employee of the Company and/or Subsidiaries who was not employed by The Procter   Gamble Company or any of its subsidiaries prior to the Effective Time. 
    
  20.19         Exchange Act    means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto. 
    
  20.20         Exchange Ratio    has the meaning accorded such term in the Merger Agreement. 

20.21         Fair Market Value    or    FMV    means a price that is based on the opening, closing, actual, high, low, or average selling prices of a Share on the New York Stock Exchange on the applicable date, the preceding trading days, the next succeeding trading day, or an average of trading days, as determined by the Committee. In the case of any Option intended to qualify as an ISO, or an Option or SAR intended to satisfy the performance-based compensation exception requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code by reason of the special stock option/stock appreciation right rules under Section 162(m) of the Code, Fair Market Value (FMV) shall be determined on a basis that is consistent with such intent. 
    
  20.22         Freestanding SAR    means an SAR that is granted independently of any Options, as described in Article 6. 
    
  20.23         Good Reason    means, for the purposes of the Plan, unless otherwise provided under the terms of an employment agreement with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, in which case the definition contained therein shall control, an employee Participant terminating his or her employment as a direct result of: 
    
           (a) 
    The assignment to the Participant of any duties materially inconsistent in any respect with the Participant's position (including status, offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority, duties or responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control, or any other action by the Company or its Subsidiaries that results in a diminution in such position, authority, duties or responsibilities, excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and that is promptly remedied by the Company and/or the Subsidiary; 
       
           (b) 
    A decrease in the Participant's compensation, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure not occurring in bad faith and that is promptly remedied by the Company and/or the Subsidiary; or 
       
           (c) 
    The Company's or the Subsidiary's requiring the Participant to be based at any office or location other than (A) the office or where the Participant was based and performed services immediately prior to the Change of Control or (B) any other location less than 35 miles from such office, or the Company's or the Subsidiary's requiring the Participant to travel on business to a substantially greater extent than required immediately prior to the Change of Control. 
       
  20.24         Grant Price    means the price established at the time of grant of a SAR pursuant to Article 6, used to determine whether there is any payment due upon exercise of the SAR. 
    
  20.25         Incentive Stock Option    or    ISO    means an Option to purchase Shares granted under Article 5 to an Employee and that is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and that is intended to meet the requirements of Code Section 422, or any successor provision. 
    
  20.26         Merger    means the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. 
    
  20.27         Merger Agreement    means the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 27, 2005 among The Procter   Gamble Company, Aquarium Acquisition Corp. and The Gillette Company. 
    
  20.28         Merger Shares    has the meaning accorded such term in the Merger Agreement. 
    
  20.29         Nonemployee Director    has the same meaning set forth in Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, or any successor definition adopted by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. 
    
  20.30         Nonqualified Stock Option    or    NQSO    means an Option that is intended not to be an ISO, or that otherwise does not meet the requirements of Code Section 422. 
    
  20.31         Option    means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option, as described in Article 5. 
    
  20.32         Option Price    means the price at which a Share may be purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option. 
    
  20.33         Other Stock-Based Award    means an Award denominated in Shares that is not described in Articles 5, 6, 7, or 8. 
    
  20.34         Parent    means The Procter   Gamble Company. 
    
  20.35         Parent Common Stock    has the meaning accorded such term in the Merger Agreement. 

20.36         Participant    means any eligible person as set forth in Article 4 to whom an Award is granted. 
    
  20.37         Performance-Based Compensation    means an Award that is intended to deliver compensation that satisfies the performance-based compensation exception requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, other than any such Award that is an Option or an SAR and that satisfies such requirements by reason of the special stock option/stock appreciation right rules under Section 162(m). 
    
  20.38         Performance Measures    means the performance measures listed in Article 10. 
    
  20.39         Performance Period    means the period of time over which attainment of performance goals is to be measured. 
    
  20.40         Performance Share    means an Award denominated in Shares under which vesting of the Award or the right to payment under the Award (and not merely the possible acceleration of vesting or payment) depends on the satisfaction of one or more performance goals. 
    
  20.41         Period of Restriction    means the period when Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (based on the passage of time, the achievement of performance goals, or upon the occurrence of other events as determined by the Committee), as provided in Article 7. 
    
  20.42         Plan    means The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan as from time to time amended and in effect. 
    
  20.43         Plan Year    means the calendar year (January 1 to December 31). 
    
  20.44         Prior Plan    means the 1971 Stock Option Plan of The Gillette Company. 
    
  20.45         Restricted Stock    means an Award of restricted Stock pursuant to Article 7. 
    
  20.46         Restricted Stock Unit    means an Award pursuant to Article 7 under which the Participant is given a conditional right to receive Stock in the future. 
    
  20.47         Retirement    means: (a) retirement in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate retirement plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries; or (b) termination of employment under the total and permanent disability provision of any retirement or disability plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any plan to which the Company or its subsidiaries contribute for purposes of the retirement or disability of Employees. 
    
  20.48         Share    means a Share of common stock of the Company. 
    
  20.49         Special Separation    means any termination of employment that occurs prior to the time a Participant is eligible to retire, except a termination for Cause or a voluntary resignation that is not initiated or encouraged by the Company. 
    
  20.50         Stock Appreciation Right    or    SAR    means an Award pursuant to the terms of Article 6. 
    
  20.51         Subsidiary    means any corporation or other entity, whether domestic or foreign, in which the Company has or obtains, directly or indirectly, a proprietary interest of more than fifty percent (50%) by reason of stock ownership or otherwise. 
    
  20.52         Tandem SAR    means an SAR that is granted in connection with a related Option pursuant to Article 6, the exercise of which shall require forfeiture of the right to purchase a Share under the related Option (and when a Share is purchased under the Option, the Tandem SAR shall similarly be canceled). 
    
  20.53         2005 Options    means each Option granted hereunder after January 27, 2005 and prior to the Effective Time. 

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.19>
 9
 fy171810-kexhibit10x19.htm
 SENIOR EXECUTIVE RECOUPMENT POLICY

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (10-19) 
    
  Senior Executive Officer Recoupment Policy 

SENIOR EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
  RECOUPMENT POLICY 
    
  Effective January 1, 2018 
    
  In the event of a significant restatement of financial results, the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee of the Board will review all cash-based and equity-based incentive compensation paid to Executive Officers on the basis of having met or exceeded specific performance targets or goals for performance periods after June 30, 2006 pursuant to the Short Term Achievement Reward (STAR) annual incentive program and/or the Performance Stock Plan (PSP), a long-term incentive program, or any successor programs or plans or other cash-based or equity-based incentive compensation plans approved by the Board or the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee (collectively,  Compensation ).  Such Compensation is limited to awards received in the three-year period preceding the date on which the Company is required to prepare the accounting restatement. 
    
  If such Compensation would have been lower had it been calculated based on the restated results, the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee will, to the extent permitted by governing law, have the sole and absolute discretion and authority to seek to recoup for the benefit of the Company some or all such Compensation paid to some or all of the Executive Officers, regardless of the fault, misconduct or responsibility of any such executive officer in the restatement.  For purposes of this policy, the term  significant restatement  means a restatement triggered by a material accounting error in previously issued financial statements, the term  Executive Officers  means the senior executive officers of the Company consisting of the Chief Executive, Vice-Chairs, Presidents, Global Function Heads, Senior Vice Presidents and equivalents who were in such positions at the time such Compensation deemed subject to recoupment was paid, and the term  Compensation  includes any amounts deferred pursuant to the terms of The Procter   Gamble Company Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.   
    
  This authority is in addition to the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee s authority under any applicable stock and incentive compensation plan to suspend or cancel any outstanding stock option, stock appreciation right, or restricted stock unit issued under the plans, and seek repayment of net proceeds of awards, if the Committee determines that the Participant has acted significantly contrary to the best interests of the Company or its affiliates or subsidiaries.  
    
  In addition, this does not affect the Company s ability to pursue any and all available legal rights and remedies under governing law. 

</EX-10.19>

<EX-10.21>
 10
 fy171810-kexhibit10x21.htm
 THE P&G 2009 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (10-21) 
    
  Regulations 
  of the 
  Compensation and Leadership Development Committee 
  for 
  The Procter   Gamble 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan,  
  The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan,  
  The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan,  
  The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version),  
  The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan,  
  and The Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan 

REGULATIONS 
  OF THE 
  COMPENSATION AND LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE 
  FOR 
  THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2009 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN, 
  THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2001 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN, 
  THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 1992 STOCK PLAN, 
  THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 1992 STOCK PLAN (BELGIAN VERSION), 
  THE GILLETTE COMPANY 2004 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN, 
  AND THE GILLETTE COMPANY 1971 STOCK OPTION PLAN 

I.      AUTHORITY FOR REGULATIONS 
    
  These regulations (the  Regulations ) are adopted pursuant to Article B, Paragraph 1 of The Procter   Gamble 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  2009 Plan  Article B, Paragraph 1 of The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  2001 Plan  Article B, Paragraph 4 of The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (the  1992 Plan  Article B, Paragraph 4 of The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version) (the  Belgian Plan ) (together, the  P G Plans ) and pursuant to Article 2.2 of The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan and Article 2(h) of The Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan (together, the  Gillette Plans ). Unless context otherwise dictates, the P G Plans and the Gillette Plans shall each be a  Plan  and collectively be the "Plans". 
    
  II.      ADMINISTRATION - DUTIES 
    
  1.    The Office of the Corporate Secretary of The Procter   Gamble Company (the "Company") shall act as Secretary of the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee (the  Committee ) for all purposes of the Plans and shall be responsible for establishing and maintaining all necessary books and records to reflect clearly the actions of the Committee regarding the administration of the Plans. These duties may be performed by the Secretary in cooperation with the Treasurer of the Company and the chief financial officers of international subsidiaries and international branches of domestic subsidiaries, as appropriate. 
    
  2.    In addition to the other duties specifically set forth in these Regulations, the Secretary and the Assistant Secretary designated by the Secretary for this purpose will assist the Committee in the administration of the Plans. The Secretary, the designated Assistant Secretary, the Chief Human Resources Officer and each member of the Committee are hereby authorized to execute documents on behalf of the Committee where the action recorded, implemented, or certified has been authorized by the Committee. 
    
  III.      ADMINISTRATION - MEETINGS AND ACTIONS 
    
  1.    The Committee shall meet on the call of any member of the Committee at the time and place specified in the call. 
    
  2.    Notice of meetings shall be given to each member, normally at least one day before the meeting. Any meeting at which all members are present shall be a duly called meeting, whether or not notice was given. 
    
  3.    A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. 
    
  4.    Committee actions require the approval of a majority of the Committee. Actions may also be taken without a meeting with the affirmative vote or approval of all members of the Committee, set forth in a writing signed by all such members. 
    
  5.    Any action taken with respect to a Plan shall be effective if it complies with that Plan and these Regulations. 
    
  IV.      SUSPENSION, TERMINATION AND WITHHOLDING OF STOCK OPTIONS, STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS OR OTHER AWARDS UNDER THE PLAN 
    
  1.    Article F of the P G Plans authorizes the Committee to cancel, rescind, suspend, withhold or otherwise limit or restrict any unexpired, unpaid or deferred awards, including any outstanding stock option, stock appreciation right, stock award, Restricted Stock Unit ( RSU ) or other award at any time, if the participant is not in compliance with all terms and conditions governing the award. On February 14, 2006, the Board amended the 2001 Plan on a prospective basis to remove the requirement that such actions by the plan participant be taken  prior to termination of employment.  The Committee hereby establishes the following procedures and delegates the following authority to assist it in the administration of this provision. 

2.    Actions that significantly contravene the Company's  Statement of Purpose, Values and Principles  ( PVP ) will be considered to be  significantly contrary to the best interests of the Company.  This standard also includes any action taken or threatened by the participant that the Committee determines has, or is reasonably likely to have, a significant adverse impact on the reputation, goodwill, stability, operation, personnel retention and management, or business of the Company or any subsidiary. 
    
  3.    The Chief Human Resources Officer and the Chief Legal Officer are each hereby individually authorized to suspend on a conditional or temporary basis the outstanding stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards, RSUs or any other awards of any participant if the Chief Human Resources Officer or the Chief Legal Officer believes that such participant has engaged in action that violates the terms and conditions governing the award. If the participant is a Principal Officer of the Company, the Chief Executive Officer must concur with the decision to conditionally or temporarily suspend awards. 
    
  4.    In order to permanently suspend, terminate, or otherwise restrict an award, within a reasonable time of any such conditional or temporary suspension, the Chief Human Resources Officer and the Chief Legal Officer must each concur that the participant has engaged in action that violates the terms and conditions governing the award. In a case involving a Principal Officer of the Company, the concurrence of the Chief Executive Officer is also required. If there is concurrence, the outstanding stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards, RSUs or other awards shall be immediately terminated without any further action. If they do not concur, the suspension shall be lifted. 
    
  5.    For purposes of Article F, paragraph 3 of the 2009 Plan, the Chief Human Resources Officer and the Chief Legal Officer, along with the Chief Executive Officer if it involves a Principal Officer, must concur that the participant has engaged in action that violates the terms and conditions governing the award prior to exercising the repayment provisions of Article F, paragraph 3 of the 2009 Plan. 
    
  6.    For any exercised but unpaid award, the Chief Human Resources Officer and the Chief Legal Officer of the Company are each hereby individually authorized to temporarily or conditionally withhold payment of such award if the Chief Human Resources Officer or the Chief Legal Officer believes that such participant has engaged in action that violates the terms and conditions governing the award. If the participant is a Principal Officer of the Company, the Chief Executive Officer must concur in the decision to withhold payment of awards. 
    
  7.    In order to permanently withhold funds from any unpaid award, within a reasonable time of withholding payment of an award, the Chief Human Resources Officer and the Chief Legal Officer must each concur that the participant has engaged in action that violates the terms and conditions governing the award. In a case involving a Principal Officer of the Company, the concurrence of the Chief Executive Officer is also required. If there is concurrence, the funds will be repaid to the Company. If they do not all concur, the withholding shall be lifted. 
    
  8.    All alleged violations of the terms and conditions governing an award by the Chief Human Resources Officer, Chief Legal Officer, or Chief Executive Officer shall be reviewed by the Committee. If the Committee determines a violation has occurred, the Committee may terminate the individual's outstanding stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards, RSUs or other awards or withhold payment of an award, and may exercise the repayment provision of Article F, paragraph 3 of the 2009 Plan. 
    
  9.    No outstanding stock options or stock appreciation rights may be exercised, nor shall stock awards or RSUs be surrendered or delivered upon, while they are suspended. 
    
  V.      AUTHORIZING, GRANTING AND VALUING OF STOCK OPTIONS AND STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS 
    
  1.    The Chief Executive Officer may submit to the Committee recommendations for grants to be made to participants pursuant to the Plans, except for grants to himself. Consistent with Article B of each P G Plan and Article 2 of the Gillette Plans, however, the Committee shall have the sole authority to determine the manner in which and number of stock options and stock appreciation rights to be granted to such participants including the Chief Executive Officer. For purposes of these Regulations, "grant" refers to both an offer, which does not require a participant to make a cash payment in order to receive stock options or stock appreciation rights, and an offer, which does require such payment. No grant under a Gillette Plan shall be made to any individual who was employed by The Procter   Gamble Company or any of its subsidiaries before October 1, 2005. 
    
  2.    The Secretary, Chief Human Resources Officer or their designate shall notify the recipients as soon as practicable after stock options and stock appreciation rights are granted by the Committee. Notification shall be provided in any manner deemed reasonable by the Secretary or Chief Human Resources Officer. If a recipient is an employee of an international subsidiary of the Company, or of an international branch of a domestic subsidiary of the Company, the employing subsidiary will also be notified regarding any grants of stock appreciation rights and may be a party to agreements for stock appreciation rights either with the Company or recipients. 

3.    The Committee may specify an appropriate time and manner for acceptance of each grant of stock options or stock appreciation rights. Any grant not accepted through the specified means within the period specified by the Committee at the time of the grant shall be considered to be canceled. 
    
  4.    The Secretary shall inform the Treasurer of stock options and stock appreciation rights granted by the Committee. 
    
  5.    For each grant of stock options or stock appreciation rights, the Committee authorizes the Chief Human Resources Officer to determine all the terms and provisions of the respective stock option or stock appreciation right, including setting the dates when each stock option or stock appreciation right may be exercised and waiving the provisions of Article F, Paragraph 1(a), 1(b) and 1(c) and Article G, Paragraph 9(a) and 9(b) of the 2009 Plan; Article F, Paragraph 1(a) and 1(b) and Article G, Paragraphs 4(a), 4(b) and 4(c) of the 2001 Plan; Article F, Paragraph 1(b) and Article G, Paragraph 4(a) of the 1992 Plan; and Article F, Paragraph 1(b) and Article G. Paragraphs 4(a) and 4(b) of the Belgian Plan; Articles 5.8(a), 5.8(b), and 5.8(c) and Articles 6.7(a), 6.7(b), and 6.7(c) and Articles 12.1A(b) and 12.1A(c) of The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  2004 Plan ). 
    
  6.    The grant price of stock options and stock appreciation rights shall be the closing price for the Common Stock of the Company on the New York Stock Exchange on the day of the grant; provided that for all employees receiving the FR grant series (French locals and expatriate employees working in France), any grant made during a closed period, as described in Schedules D, E or F attached to these Regulations, shall have a grant price determined on the date following the end of the closed period. 
    
  7.    For purposes of granting options under the 1992 Plan pursuant to a Scheme approved by the United Kingdom's Inland Revenue pursuant to Section 10 to the United Kingdom's Finance Act of 1984, the provisions set out in Schedule A attached to these Regulations shall apply. 
    
  8.    The provisions set out in Schedule B attached to these Regulations as amended from time to time shall apply to all stock options granted in Australia. 
    
  9.    For purposes of granting options under the 2001 Plan, pursuant to a sub-plan approved by the United Kingdom's Inland Revenue under Schedule 9 to the United Kingdom Income and Corporation Taxes Act of 1988, the provisions set out in Schedule C to these Regulations shall apply. 
    
  10.    The provisions set out in Schedules D, E and F attached to these Regulations as amended from time to time shall apply to all stock options granted in France under the 1992 Plan, the 2001 Plan and the 2009 Plan, respectively. 
    
  11.    The provisions set out in Schedule G attached to these Regulations as amended from time to time shall apply to all stock options granted to employees of Procter   Gamble Hygiene and Health Care Limited. 
    
  12.    For purposes of granting options under the 2009 Plan, pursuant to a sub-plan approved by the United Kingdom's HM Revenue   Customs under Schedule 4 to the United Kingdom Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act of 2003, the provisions set out in Schedule H to these Regulations shall apply. 
    
  VI.      EXERCISE, SURRENDER, AND CANCELLATION OF STOCK OPTIONS AND STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS 
    
  1.    A participant's notice of exercise of any stock option or stock appreciation right under any Plan shall be in the form established by the office of the Company designated by the Treasurer as responsible for administration of grants under the Plans. Notice shall be given prior to the expiration of the stock option or stock appreciation right and shall include proof of all necessary payment by the participant (including option cost, administration cost, required tax withholding, commissions and fees) in United States funds or as otherwise permitted by Paragraph 3 of this Article VI. Delivery of notice of exercise of a stock option shall be made to the office of the Company designated by the Treasurer as responsible for administration of grants under the Plans. Delivery of notice of exercise of a stock appreciation right may be made to the office of the Company designated by the Treasurer as responsible for administration of grants under the Plans. 
    
  2.    Upon exercise of any stock option or stock appreciation right, the office of the Company designated by the Treasurer as responsible for administration of grants under the Plans shall promptly provide the recipient with a summary of the transaction. 
    
  3.    The Treasurer is hereby instructed to accept cash or unrestricted shares of Common Stock as payment for (i) all or part of the exercise price of a stock option; (ii) withholding or other applicable taxes of all kinds which may be due upon the exercise of a stock option; (iii) any commissions or fees associated with the exercise of a stock option; and (iv) any other costs borne by the Company in connection with the exercise of a stock option, provided that unrestricted shares of Common Stock will not be accepted where prohibited or made impractical by local laws or regulations. Depending on the exercise method, shares of Common  

Stock will either be valued at the actual price received from the sale of the Common Stock on the open market or at the average of the high and low prices for the Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day the stock option is exercised. In the event that the New York Stock Exchange is closed for business on the day upon which shares of the Company's Common Stock are to be valued for this purpose, the Treasurer shall value such shares on the immediately following business day of such Exchange on which day such stock is traded. 
    
  In jurisdictions where local law permits, participants exercising stock options by means of the cashless option program using an endorsed broker, the exercise payment may be made by the endorsed broker three business days following the delivery of the notice of exercise. Further, in such cases, any taxes due shall be calculated on the basis of the actual sale price received by the endorsed broker for the Company's Common Stock on the date of exercise. 
    
  4.    The Treasurer, to the extent it is deemed appropriate by the Treasurer, is hereby authorized to utilize either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares for issuance upon the exercise of a stock option or a stock appreciation right being redeemed by the Company. However, the Treasurer shall use only authorized but unissued shares in a country where authorized but unissued shares are required by law. Pursuant to this paragraph, the Treasurer shall use only authorized but unissued shares for grants made in Italy from January 1, 1998 through January 15, 2000. 
    
  5.    Redemption of a stock appreciation right may be in Common Stock, cash or a combination thereof. A stock appreciation right shall be valued at the average of the high and low prices of the Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day the stock appreciation right is redeemed. In the event that the New York Stock Exchange is closed for business on the day upon which shares of the Company's Common Stock are to be valued for this purpose, the Treasurer shall value such shares on the immediately preceding business day of such Exchange on which day such stock was traded.  
    
  Upon receipt of a redemption request, the Treasurer or the chief financial officer of the employing or other appropriate international subsidiary or international branch of a domestic subsidiary shall cause the appropriate payment to be paid, either in cash, Common Stock or a combination thereof unless local laws or regulations prohibit or make impractical payment in Common Stock. Cash payments made to participants employed by international subsidiaries or international branches of domestic subsidiaries shall be made in local currency at the official exchange rate for this type of transaction prevailing at the time of exercise. Shares of Common Stock to be delivered to participants employed by international subsidiaries or international branches of domestic subsidiaries shall be shares which the appropriate subsidiary has acquired for the purposes of the Plan, paying therefor the then prevailing market price. The subsidiary shall bear all of the cost of acquiring and transferring such shares to such employee, including any applicable documentary and transfer taxes but excluding any individual personal tax liability resulting to the employee therefrom. 
    
  6.    Stock options and stock appreciation rights may be surrendered for cancellation before exercise by notice delivered in the form established by the office of the Company designated by the Treasurer as responsible for administration of grants under the Plans. Acceptance of such surrender for cancellation before exercise shall not constitute waiver of the participant's obligations under Article F of the P G Plans or Article 12 of the 2004 Plan. 
    
  7.    Whenever a participant in receipt of a nonstatutory stock option is transferred to an employing subsidiary company, or retires to residence, in a location or country in which the purchase, receipt and/or holding of a stock option is prohibited by law or regulation, such nonstatutory stock option shall automatically, without further action by the participant or the Committee, be redeemable while in such location or country as if it were a stock appreciation right, subject to all of the other terms and conditions of the original option including exercise price. Redemption of stock appreciation rights, including both such nonstatutory stock options redeemable as stock appreciation rights and stock appreciation rights originally issued as such, in such a location or country shall be entirely in cash, notwithstanding any other term, condition or regulation of this Committee to the contrary. 
    
  8.    To the extent that unrestricted shares of Common Stock are authorized to be accepted as payment for all or part of the exercise price of a stock option, the unrestricted shares must have been held for at least six months by the participant. The use of the newly acquired shares from the option exercise as payment of withholding or other applicable taxes that may be due upon exercise of the option is permissible, provided that local laws and regulations permit such payments. 
    
  9.    Pursuant to Article B, Paragraph 2 of the 2009 Plan; Article B, Paragraph 2 of the 2001 Plan; Article B, Paragraph 3 of the 1992 Plan and the Belgian Plan; and Article 2.2(a) of the 2004 Plan, the Committee hereby waives the provisions of Article F, Paragraph 1(a) of the P G Plans and Article 12.1A(a) of the 2004 Plan (requiring certification by the recipient at the time of exercise that the recipient intends to remain in the employ of the Company or one of its subsidiaries for at least one (1) year);   provided that   the participant shall be given the opportunity to certify intent to comply with this requirement and, if the participant refuses to so certify, a principal officer or an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries who has the title of Vice President is informed of the participant's refusal and the participant has certified at the time of exercise no intent to engage in any activity that would violate the non-compete provisions of Article F, Paragraph 1(b) of the P G Plans or Article 12.1A(b) of the 2004 Plan. 

10.    The Treasurer or Chief Human Resources Officer with Treasurer concurrence, to the extent it is deemed appropriate by the Treasurer, is hereby authorized to establish such terms and conditions regarding exercise of any stock option as are required or advisable to accommodate for differences in local law, tax policy or custom, including but not limited to, requiring that Participants: (i) hold shares acquired upon exercise of any stock option for a specified period of time; (ii) hold shares acquired upon exercise of any stock option outside of the Participant's jurisdiction of residence; or (iii) immediately repatriate proceeds from the sale of shares or dividends on shares to their local jurisdiction. 
    
  VII.      AUTHORIZING AND GRANTING RESTRICTED OR UNRESTRICTED STOCK OR RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 
    
  1.    The Chief Executive Officer may submit to the Committee recommendations for awards of unrestricted or restricted Common Stock or RSUs to be made to Participants pursuant to the Plans, except for awards to himself. Consistent with Article I of the P G Plans and Article 2.2 of the 2004 Plan, however, the Committee shall have the sole authority to determine the manner in which and number of shares of Common Stock or RSUs to be awarded to such participants, including the Chief Executive Officer. 
    
  2.    Any conditions or restrictions on the award of any shares of Common Stock or RSUs beyond those contained in the Plans or these Regulations shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Statement of Conditions and Restrictions or Statement of Terms and Conditions. Such additional conditions or restrictions may vary from time to time and from participant to participant. 
    
  3.    The Secretary or Chief Human Resources Officer shall inform the Treasurer of the award of restricted shares of Common Stock or RSUs in payment of additional remuneration. The transfer and delivery will be made as soon as practicable after such award by the Committee. The shares awarded shall be valued at the closing price for the Common Stock of the Company on the New York Stock Exchange on the day of the transfer to the participant. 
    
  4.    The Treasurer may accept as payment of withholding or other applicable taxes of all kinds, which may be due upon the lapsing of restrictions on Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, cash or shares of Common Stock of the Company upon which restrictions are lapsing. Depending on the settlement method, shares of Common Stock will be valued at either the actual price received from the sale of the Common Stock on the open market or the average of the high and low prices for such stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date the tax payment is otherwise due. In the event that the New York Stock Exchange is closed to business on the day upon which shares of the Company's Common Stock are to be valued for this purpose, the Treasurer shall value such shares on the immediately preceding business day of such Exchange on which day such stock was traded. 
    
  5.    Shares of Common Stock awarded or issued following redemption of RSUs under the Plans may be authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares or shares acquired for purposes of the Plans. 
    
  6.    For purposes of determining ERISA Supplement (known as  PST Restoration ), International Retirement Plan and Supplemental Credit awards of restricted stock, the shares or RSUs awarded shall be valued at the average of the high and low prices for Common Stock of the Company on the New York Stock Exchange on the last five business days in June. 
    
  7.    The Treasurer will transfer shares under the Plans to participants subject to restrictions as authorized by the Committee. Any certificates for shares delivered for this purpose will carry a legend legally sufficient to prohibit their sale or other disposition except in accordance with the terms of the form of Statement of Conditions and Restrictions or Statement of Terms and Conditions. Alternately, except as otherwise requested by the participant, the Treasurer may cause to be maintained a special restricted stock account for each participant without delivery of certificates for shares of restricted stock, with any such account maintained in such manner as will prevent sale or other disposition except in accordance with the terms of the applicable form of Statement of Conditions and Restrictions or Statement of Terms and Conditions. 
    
  8.    Restricted shares evidenced by certificates may be surrendered to the Treasurer upon the lapse of the restrictions and certificates free of any legend for a like number of shares will be issued. Upon lapse of restrictions on restricted stock not evidenced by certificates, certificates free of restrictive legend representing such shares shall be automatically issued, without request therefor. 
    
  9.    If, upon action by the Committee or pursuant to a Plan, a participant is required to sell any or all of the restricted shares to the Company pursuant to a form of Statement of Conditions and Restrictions or Statement of Terms and Conditions, the Treasurer will make such purchase for the Company at the purchase price stated in the form subject to any adjustment called for in the form or take such other action as is required. 
    
  10.    In case of a triggering event under Article K of the 2009 Plan; Article K of the 2001 Plan; Article J of the 1992 Plan or the Belgian Plan; Article 3.4 of the 2004 Plan; and Article 9 of The Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan (the  1971 Plan )  

the appropriate number of such new or additional or different shares or securities will be issued by the Treasurer with the applicable restrictive legend to recipients holding restricted shares, in accordance with each form of Statement of Conditions and Restrictions or Statement of Terms and Conditions. 
    
  VIII.      WAIVER, EXTENSION AND INTERPRETATION 
    
  1.    The Committee's authority to waive restrictions and conditions included in the form of Statement of Conditions and Restrictions or Statement of Terms and Conditions relating to any award shall be exercised sparingly. The authority shall be exercised only in the case of hardship which in the sole judgment of the Committee justifies such action. Under no circumstances will the convenience or preference of the participant be sufficient. 
    
  2.    Upon request of any holder of shares subject to restrictions which would lapse upon retirement, the Treasurer is authorized to agree on behalf of the Company and the Committee to extend such restrictions so as to provide for the expiration (1) on a date not later than December 15 of the year of retirement; (2) on January 15 of the year following retirement; (3) on January 15 in the second year following retirement; or (4) in five or ten annual installments beginning on January 15 of the year following retirement. Any such request must be made and agreed to prior to January 1 of the expected year of retirement and shall be granted only on condition that the employee making the request agrees not to engage in competitive employment (as defined in Article F of the P G Plans or Article 12.1A(b) of the 2004 Plan) following retirement until expiration of the restrictions, without first obtaining written permission from the Company. 
    
  3.    Upon the request of any employee whose compensation is subject to the jurisdiction of this Committee who has received awards of additional remuneration specified as to be paid in the form of deferred cash payable at retirement with interest, the Treasurer is authorized to agree on behalf of the Company and the Committee to make payment of any such deferred cash balances with interest owed to such a retiring employee in accordance with the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and granted only on condition that the employee making the request agrees not to engage in competitive employment (as defined in Article F of the P G Plans and Article 12.1A(b) of the 2004 Plan) following retirement until receipt of final payment, without first obtaining written permission from the Company. 
    
  4.    Determination by the Committee as to the interpretation of the terms and provisions of the Plans shall be conclusive on all interested parties. 
    
  IX.      CHIEF EXECUTIVE AWARDS 
    
  1.    The Chief Executive Officer has the authority to grant a limited number of RSUs under the Plans to key employees who have demonstrated sustained superior performance or have key skills and experience, subject to such conditions or restrictions as determined by this Committee. 
    
  2.    The number of grants that may be awarded by the Chief Executive Officer in any calendar year period shall not exceed twenty-five and no individual award may have a value greater than the lesser of $1,500,000 or three times the grantee's base salary. 
    
  3.    The number of shares or units authorized to be granted under Paragraph 1 of this Article IX shall be subject to appropriate adjustments in the case of a triggering event under Article K of the 2009 Plan; Article K of the 2001 Plan; Article J of the 1992 Plan and the Belgian Plan; Article 3.4 of the 2004 Plan; or Article 9 of The Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan. 
    
  4.    The Committee shall receive an annual report of all grants under this Article IX. 
    
  X.      TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR ASSUMPTION OF THE GILLETTE PLANS PURSUANT TO THE MERGER BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND THE GILLETTE COMPANY 
    
  The termination for  Good Reason  of or by an employee of the Company or its subsidiaries who was employed by The Gillette Company or its subsidiaries before the effective time of the merger with the Company shall be treated as a Special Separation or Retirement according to the provisions of Section 19A.4 of the 2004 Plan and Section 14.3 of the 1971 Plan.  Good Reason  is defined in Section 20.23 of the 2004 Plan and Section 6(c)(4)(d) of the 1971 Plan. 
    
  The Chief Human Resources Officer is hereby authorized to assess and conclude whether an employee's termination furnishes  Good Reason  for purposes of these provisions. In addition, the Chief Human Resources Officer is further authorized to delegate to appropriate Company employees who, in the opinion of the Chief Human Resources Officer, possess the requisite expertise, the authority to (i) develop a process for gathering facts and circumstances surrounding an employee's termination for purposes of these provisions, which process shall include a deadline for submitting any claim for Good Reason, after which time such claims  

are barred, and (ii) based on such facts and circumstances, assess and conclude whether such employee's termination furnishes  Good Reason  for purposes of these provisions. The determination of Good Reason by the Chief Human Resources Officer or his/her designee(s) shall be conclusive. 
    
  Subject to the terms of the Gillette Plans, the Committee reserves the authority to modify the timing, nature, methods for exercise, and/or timing for delivery of proceeds for those equity grants subject to operation of Section 19A.4 of the 2004 Plan and Section 14.3 of the 1971 Plan (including, without limitation, recession of such grants for fair compensation) if it reasonably concludes that such modification is required by any provision of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (such as Section 409A), as revised, or by any other governing law or regulation affecting executive compensation. 
    
  XI.      MISCELLANEOUS 
    
  1.    The Secretary shall promptly notify the affected holders of any outstanding stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards, RSUs or other awards of any material amendment of any Plan. If consent of the participant is required to any amendment that affects outstanding stock options and/or stock appreciation rights, failure of the participant to give consent within sixty days of the date of notice by means specified in the notice shall be deemed to mean that said participant does not consent to said amendment. 
    
  2.    The requirements of Article F, Paragraph 1(b) of the P G Plans and Article 12.1A(b) of the 2004 Plan are hereby waived as a condition of any outstanding stock option or stock appreciation right held by an employee on assignment in France, for the duration of such assignment but not thereafter. 
    
  3.    The names of persons to whom stock options or stock appreciation rights have been granted or to whom shares or RSUs have been awarded under the Plans, and the number of shares covered thereby, shall not be open to inspection unless authorized by the Committee or the Secretary. 
    
  4.    The Secretary shall report at each meeting of the Committee at which awards or grants are to be considered the total number of shares available for award or grant under each of the Plans. 
    
  5.    In the absence of the Treasurer of the Company or of a subsidiary, an Assistant Treasurer of the appropriate Company is hereby authorized to perform the duties and have the powers of the Treasurer. In addition, the Treasurer is authorized to delegate to an appropriate manager reporting to the Treasurer the authority to acquire, transfer and deliver shares for the purposes of the Plans. 
    
  6.    In the absence of the Secretary, the Office of the Corporate Secretary is hereby authorized to perform the duties and have the powers of the Secretary. 
    
  7.    Signature by the Secretary or Chief Human Resources Officer on agreement letters for stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards, RSUs or other award agreements may be by facsimile. 
    
  8.    These Regulations may be amended at any time by action of the Committee. 
    
  XII.      RECOGNITION SHARES PROGRAM 
    
  1.    For the period July 1 to June 30 each year, stock options or stock appreciation rights totaling up to 500,000 shares may be granted to Participants as set forth in this Article XII. 
    
  2.    Each grant under this Recognition Shares Program shall be for 100 shares of Procter   Gamble Common Stock with such terms and conditions as determined by the Chief Human Resources Officer or such Chief Human Resources Officer's delegate. 
    
  3.    The Chief Human Resources Officer or such Officer's delegates shall determine from time to time those Participants who should receive stock options or stock appreciation rights under the Recognition Shares Program. 
    
  4.    All stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under the Recognition Shares Program shall have a maximum life of no more than ten (10) years from the date of grant and shall not be exercisable within five (5) years from their date of grant, except in the case of death of the Participant. 

5.    For all grants made pursuant to this program, the Committee waives each of the following provisions: 

Intent to Remain with Company for 1 Year   (Article F, Paragraph 1(a)) 

Non-Compete   (Article F, Paragraph 1(b)) 

6 Month Rule   ((Article G, Paragraph 9(a)(2) of the 2009 Plan) and (Article G, Paragraph 4(a)(2) of the 2001 Plan), beginning with the word  that  and ending with the word  granted ) 

5 Year Term for Special Separation   (Article G Paragraph 4(c) of the 2001 Plan) 
       
  6.    For all grants made pursuant to this program, the Committee also adopts the following provision in lieu of Article G, Paragraph 5 of the 2001 Plan: 
    
   In the case of death of a Participant, a cash payment equal to the Spread Value of the Award, as of the date of the Participant's death, shall be paid as soon as administratively practicable to the Participant's estate. If the Participant is located in Italy, the outstanding Award granted to such Participant shall be (i) immediately canceled if the death occurs prior to the fifth anniversary of the Grant Date, or (ii) exercisable by the executors, administrators or heirs of the deceased Participant only for six (6) months following such death if the death occurs on or after the fifth anniversary of the Grant Date.  
    
  7.    For   only those grants made pursuant to this program  , if a Participant's employment is terminated on or after the fifth anniversary of the grant date, for any reason other than death, disability, Retirement or Special Separation, the stock options or stock appreciation rights granted herein shall be exercisable for thirty (30) calendar days following such termination, and only to the extent they were exercisable on the date of termination, except as may otherwise be determined by the Committee, provided that they cannot be exercised more than ten (10) years after the grant date. 
    
  Originally adopted February 26, 1993 and amended and restated October 9, 2001 
  Article V, paragraphs 7 and 9 amended; Schedule C amended September 10, 2002 
  Reference to The Procter   Gamble 1983 Stock Plan deleted; Article VI, paragraph 3 amended and Schedule F amended December 10, 2002 
  Article IX, paragraphs 1 and 3 amended March 11, 2003. 
  Article IX, paragraph 1 amended June 10, 2003.Article V., paragraph 12 and Schedule G added August 8, 2003. 
  Schedule B amended September 8, 2003. 
  Adjusted for stock split effective May 21, 2004. 
  Amended to reflect assumption of Gillette plans, December 13, 2005 
  Article IV amended to reflect changes in Plan to  actions taken significantly contrary to best interests , April 30, 2006 
  Amended to reflect change to grant price to  closing price for the Common Stock on the day of the grant , February, 2007. 
  Amended to reflect changes in French law regarding holding requirements and addition of Recognition Shares, August, 
  2007 
  Article IX paragraph 1 and 2 amended December 11, 2007 for a change in number of CEO grants per year. 
  Amended to reflect the adoption of the 2009 Plan and the addition of sub-plans F and H (2009 France Sub-plan and 2009 UK Sub-plan) December 2009 
  Amended to allow for RSU settlements to use the actual price received in the sale on the open market or the average of the high and low price on the settlement day for the value of the Common Stock depending on the settlement method February 2011 
  Amended Schedule F France subplan Article F, Section 1 for consistent treatment of options at death October 2011 
  Amended Article IV for clarification of award suspension authority and process December 2012 
  Amended Article VI.3 to value shares using the following trading day in the event the stock exchange is down December 2012 

1992 Stock Plan 
    
  SCHEDULE A 
    
  THE PROCTER   GAMBLE UNITED KINGDOM SHARE OPTION SCHEME 
    
  For the purpose of granting options after February 25, 1993 under a scheme approved by the United Kingdom Inland Revenue under Schedule 9 to the United Kingdom Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 ("Schedule 9"), the terms of The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan as approved by Company shareholders on October 13, 1992 ("the Plan") shall with the following restrictions constitute The Procter   Gamble United Kingdom Share Option Scheme ("the Scheme"): 
    
  1.    No options may be granted under the Scheme to a person who is not a full-time director or a qualifying employee (as defined in Paragraph 27(4) of Schedule 9) of the Company or such of the companies under the control of the Company   as the Committee may nominate from time to time within the meaning of Paragraph 27 of Schedule 9   (and a person shall be treated as a full-time director of a company if he is obliged to devote to the performance of the duties of his office or employment with the company [or with the company and any other participating company] not less than 25 hours a week). 
    
  2.    No options may be granted under the Scheme to, or exercised by, a person who is not eligible to participate by virtue of Paragraph 8 of Schedule 9. 
    
  3.    No person shall obtain rights under the Scheme in excess of the limit provided by Paragraph 28 of Schedule 9. 
    
  4.    The shares in respect of which options are granted under the Scheme must satisfy Paragraphs 10 to 14 of Schedule 9. 
    
  5.    Article G Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Plan shall apply as if for the words "at any time prior to the expiration date of the stock options or stock appreciation rights" there were substituted the words "within one (1) year of the date of the death of the employee". A Personal Representative shall not be able to exercise an option if the option holder was at the time of death unable to exercise the option by virtue of 2 above 
    
  6.    The second sentence of Article F, Paragraph 2 of the Plan shall not apply to options granted under this Scheme. 
    
  7.    Where the provisions of Article G, Paragraph 4(a) of the Plan have been waived, the option holder shall be notified in writing at the time of grant. 
    
  8.    The second sentence of Article H of the Plan shall not apply to options granted under this Scheme. The exercise price in respect of options granted under this Scheme must be paid in cash. 
    
  9.    No adjustment under Article J of the Plan shall be made to options granted under this Scheme without the prior agreement of the United Kingdom Inland Revenue. 
    
  10.    The Committee may not exercise its discretion to permit an option granted under the Scheme to be surrendered in accordance with Article G Paragraph 9 of the Plan. 
    
  11.    The grant price of options shall be the average of the high and low prices for the Common Stock of the Company on the New York Stock Exchange on the day of the grant. 
    
  12.    No stock appreciation rights may be granted under the Scheme. 
    
  13.    Within 30 days after an option under the Scheme has been exercised by any person, the Company shall issue to him/her the number of shares in respect of which the option has been exercised (subject to the Company obtaining any approval or consent required under any regulation or enactment). 
    
  14.    No alteration to the terms of the Scheme made at a time when the Scheme is approved by the United Kingdom Inland Revenue shall be effective until such alteration has been approved by the Inland Revenue. 
    
  15.    The exercise of an option granted prior to the date of any alteration to the terms of the Scheme, by application of that alteration to the option holder, shall not be treated as an exercise of an option under the Scheme. In such case none of the above restrictions to the Plan shall apply and the option holder will be liable for a United Kingdom Income Tax charge at the time of exercise. 

SCHEDULE B 
    
  AUSTRALIA ADDENDUM 
    
  1.      Purpose 
    
  This Addendum (the "Australian Addendum") to The Procter   Gamble 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan is hereby adopted to set forth certain rules which, together with the provisions of the U.S. Plan (which are modified by this addendum in certain respects to ensure compliance with the Class Order (see below)), shall govern the operation of the Plan with respect to Australian-resident employees of P G and its Australian subsidiaries. The Plan is intended to comply with the provisions of the Corporations Act 2001, ASIC Policy Statement 49 and Class Order 03/184 (the  Class Order ). 
    
  2.      Definitions 
    
  Except as set out below, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the U.S. Plan. In the event of any conflict between these provisions and the U.S. Plan, these provisions shall prevail. 
    
  For the purposes of this Australian Addendum: 
    
  "ASIC" means the Australian Securities   Investments Commission; 
    
   Associated Body Corporate  means (as determined in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001): 
    
  (a)    a body corporate that is a related body corporate of the Company; 
    
  (b)    a body corporate that has voting power in the Company of not less than 20%; or 
    
  (c)    a body corporate in which the Company has voting power of not less than 20%; 
    
  "Australian Subsidiaries" means Procter   Gamble Australia Pte. Ltd. and Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Pte. Ltd.; 
    
   Common Stock  means the common stock, without par value, of the Company; 
    
  "Company" means The Procter   Gamble Company; 
    
   Option  means an option to acquire, by way of issue, a share of Common Stock of the Company; 
    
   Plan  means the U.S. Plan as modified for implementation in Australia by the Australian     Addendum; 
    
  "U.S. Plan" means The Procter   Gamble 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan; and 
    
  "P G" means The Procter   Gamble Company. 
    
  3.      Forms of Awards 
    
  Only shares of Common Stock and Options shall be awarded or offered under the Plan in Australia. Options must be granted at no monetary cost. 
    
  4.      Employees 
    
  In Australia, the Plan must be extended only to persons who at the time of the offer are full or part-time employees of the Company or an Australian Subsidiary. 
    
  5.      No Contribution Plan or Trust 
    
  An offer of shares of Common Stock or Options under the Plan must not involve a contribution plan or any offer, issue or sale being made through a trust. 

6.      Form of Offer 
    
  6.1    Any offer made in Australia to participate in the Plan must be included in a document ( Offer Document ) which sets out the terms of the offer and which must include or be accompanied by a copy of the Plan, or a summary of the Plan. Where a summary only is provided with the offer, the Offer Document must include an undertaking that during the period (the "offer period") during which a Participant may exercise Options acquired under the Plan, the Company or its Australian subsidiary will, within a reasonable period of the Participant so requesting, provide the Participant without charge with a copy of the Plan. 
    
  6.2    The Company must take reasonable steps to ensure that any Participant to whom an offer is made is given a copy of the Offer Document. 
    
  6.3    Further, the Offer Document must include a statement to the effect that any advice given by the person in connection with the offer is general advice only, and that Participants should consider obtaining their own financial product advice from an independent person who is licensed by ASIC to give such advice. 
    
  7.      Australian Dollar Equivalent of Option Price at Offer Date 
    
  The Offer Document must specify the Australian dollar equivalent of the exercise price of the Options the subject of the Offer Document ("Option Price") as at the date of the offer. 
    
  8.      Updated Pricing Information 
    
  The Offer Document must include an undertaking that, and an explanation of the way in which the Company will, during the offer period and within a reasonable period of a Participant so requesting, make available to the Participant the following information: 
    
  (i)    the Australian dollar equivalent of the current market price of a share of Common Stock, as at the date of the Participant's request; and 
    
  (ii)    the Australian dollar equivalent of the Option Price, as at the date of the Participant's request. 
    
  For the purposes of this clause, the current market price of a share of Common Stock shall be taken as the final price published by the New York Stock Exchange for the previous trading day. 
    
  9.      Exchange Rate for Australia Dollar Equivalent of a Price 
    
  For the purposes of clauses 7 and 8, the Australian dollar equivalent of the Option Price and current market price of shares of Common Stock shall be calculated by reference to the Australian/U.S. dollar exchange rate published by an Australian bank (the  Bank ) no earlier than the business day before the day to which the price relates. 
    
  10.      Loan or Financial Assistance 
    
  If the Company or any Australian Subsidiary offers a Participant any loan or other financial assistance for the purpose of acquiring the Common Stock to which the offer relates, the Offer Document must disclose the conditions, obligations and risks associated with such loan or financial assistance. 
    
  11.      Restriction on Capital Raising: 5% limit 
    
  In the case of any offer that will involve the issue of shares of Common Stock including as a result of an exercise of an Option, the number of shares of Common Stock that are the subject of the offer under the Plan, or to be received on exercise of an Option when aggregated with: 
    
  (a)    the number of shares of Common Stock in the same class which would be issued were each outstanding offer of shares of Common Stock or Option to acquire unissued shares of Common Stock under the Plan or any other employee share scheme of the Company, accepted or exercised (as the case may be); and 

(b)    the number of shares of Common Stock in the same class issued during the previous five years pursuant to the Plan or any other employee share scheme extended only to employees or directors of the Company or of any Associated Body Corporate of the Company; but disregarding any offer made, or option acquired or shares of Common Stock issued by way or as a result of: 

(c)    an offer to a person situated at the time of receipt of the offer outside Australia; 
    
  (d)    an offer that was an excluded offer or invitation within the meaning of the Corporations Law as it stood prior to 13 March 2000; 
    
  (e)    an offer that did not require disclosure to investors because of section 708 of the Corporations Act 2001; 
    
  (f)    an offer that did not require the giving of a Product Disclosure Statement because of section 1012D of the Corporations Act 2001; or 
    
  (g)    an offer made under a disclosure document or a Product Disclosure Statement, must not exceed 5% of the total number of issued shares in that class of shares of the Company as at the time of the offer or invitation. 
    
  12.      Lodgment of Offer Document with the ASIC 
  A copy of the Offer Document (which need not contain details of the offer particular to the offeree such as the identity or entitlement of that offeree) and each accompanying document must be provided to ASIC not later than 7 days after the provision of that material to the Participant. 
    
  13.      Compliance with Undertakings 
  The Company or an Australian Subsidiary must comply with any undertaking required to be made in the Offer Document by reason of the Class Order, including the undertaking to provide pricing information upon request. 

2001 Plan 
  SCHEDULE C 
    
  RULES OF THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2002 
  INLAND REVENUE APPROVED SUB-PLAN FOR THE 
  UNITED KINGDOM 
    
  1.      General 
    
  This schedule to the Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan ( the Plan ) sets out the rules of the Procter   Gamble 2002 Inland Revenue Approved Sub-Plan for the United Kingdom ( the Sub-Plan ). 
    
  2.      Establishment of Sub-Plan 
    
  The Procter   Gamble Company ( the Company ) has established the Sub-Plan under Article B, Paragraph 2 of the Plan, which authorises the Committee to establish sub-plans to the Plan. 
    
  3.      Purpose of the Sub-Plan 
    
  The purpose of the Sub-Plan is to enable the grant to, and subsequent exercise by, employees and directors in the United Kingdom, on a tax favoured basis, of options to acquire Shares under the Plan. 
    
  4.      Inland Revenue approval of Sub-Plan 
    
  The Sub-Plan is intended to be approved by the Inland Revenue under Schedule 9 to ICTA 1988. 
    
  5.      Rules of Sub-Plan 
    
  The rules of the Plan, in their present form and as amended from time to time, shall, with the modifications set out in this schedule, form the rules of the Sub-Plan. In the event of any conflict between the rules of the Plan and this schedule, the schedule shall prevail. 
    
  6.      Relationship of Sub-Plan to Plan 
    
  The Sub-Plan shall form part of the Plan and not a separate and independent plan. 
    
  7.      Interpretation 
    
  In the Sub-Plan, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and expressions have the following meanings: 
    
                 Acquiring Company 
    a company which obtains Control of the Company in the circumstances referred to in rule 25; 
      Approval Date 
    the date on which the Sub-Plan is approved by the Inland Revenue under Schedule 9 to ICTA 1988; 
      Associated Company 
    the meaning given to that expression by section 187(2) of ICTA 1988; 
      Close Company 
    the meaning given to that expression by section 414 of, and paragraph 8 of Schedule 9 to, ICTA 1988; 
      Committee 
    the compensation committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or such other committee as may be designated by the Board of Directors of the Company to administer the Plan; 
      Consortium 
    the meaning given to that word by section 187(7) of ICTA 1988; 
      Control 
    the meaning given to that word by section 840 of ICTA 1988 and  Controlled  shall be construed accordingly; 
      Date of Grant 
    the date on which an Option is granted to an Eligible Employee in accordance with the Articles of the Plan; 

Eligible Employee 
    an individual who falls within Article C of the Plan and who is:  an employee (other than a director) of the Company or a company participating in the Sub-Plan; or  a director of the Company or a company participating in the Sub-Plan who is contracted to work at least 25 hours per week for the Company and its subsidiaries or any of them (exclusive of meal breaks)  and who, in either case, is not a non-executive director of a company participating in the Sub-Plan and does not have at the Date of Grant of an Option, and has not had during the preceding twelve months, a Material Interest in a Close Company which is the Company or a company which has Control of the Company or a member of a Consortium which owns the Company; 
      ICTA 1988 
    the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988; 
      Inland Revenue 
    the UK Board of Inland Revenue; 
      Market Value 
    notwithstanding Article F, Paragraph 7 of the Plan,  (a) in the case of an Option granted under the Sub Plan:  (i)if at the relevant time the Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange the closing price of a Share on the Date of Grant (as quoted in the Wall Street Journal) or, if there were no trades on that day, on the dealing day immediately preceding the Date of Grant;  (ii) if paragraph (i) above does not apply, the market value of a Share as determined in accordance with Part VIII of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 and agreed in advance with Inland Revenue Shares Valuation on the Date of Grant or such earlier date or dates (not being more than thirty days before the Date of Grant) as may be agreed with the Board of Inland Revenue;   (b) in the case of an option granted under any other share option scheme, the market value of a Share determined under the rules of such scheme for the purpose of the grant of the option; 
      Material Interest 
    the meaning given to that expression by section 187(3) of ICTA 1988; 
      New Option 
    an option granted by way of exchange under rule 25.1; 
      New Shares 
    the shares subject to a New Option referred to in rule 25.1; 
      Option 
    a right to acquire Shares granted under the Sub-Plan; 
      Option Holder 
    an individual who holds an Option or, where the context permits, his legal personal representatives; 
      Ordinary Share Capital 
    the meaning given to that expression by section 832(1) of ICTA 1988; and 
      Shares 
    common stock of the Company as defined in Article A of the Plan. 

In this schedule, unless the context otherwise requires: 

words and expressions not defined above have the same meanings as are given to them in the Plan; 

a reference to a rule is a reference to a rule in this schedule; 

the singular includes the plural and vice-versa and the masculine includes the feminine; and 

a reference to a statutory provision is a reference to a United Kingdom statutory provision and includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment thereof. 
       
  8.      Companies Participating in Sub-Plan 
    
  Notwithstanding Article L, Paragraph 3 of the Plan, the companies participating in the Sub-Plan shall be the Company and any company Controlled by the Company which has been nominated by the Company to participate in the Sub-Plan. All subsidiaries of the Company that are controlled by the Company at any time from the Approved Date through the termination of the Sub-Plan are hereby nominated for participation in the Sub-Plan for the time in which they are controlled by the Company. 

9.      Shares Used in Sub-Plan 
    
  The Shares shall form part of the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company and shall at all times comply with the requirements of paragraphs 10 to 14 of Schedule 9 to ICTA 1988.         
    
  10.      Grant of Options 
    
  An Option shall be granted under and subject to the rules of the Plan as modified by this schedule. 
    
  11.      Identification of Options 
    
  An Option agreement issued in respect of an Option shall expressly state that it is issued in respect of an Option. An option which is not so identified shall not constitute an Option. 
    
  12.      Contents of Option Agreement 
    
  An Option agreement issued in respect of an Option shall state: 

that it is issued in respect of an Option; 

the date of grant of the Option; 

the number of Shares subject to the Option; 

the exercise price under the Option; 

any performance target or other condition imposed on the exercise of the Option; 

the date(s) on which the Option will ordinarily become exercisable; 

whether the Committee has waived any, and if so which, of the provisions of Article G, Paragraph 4(a), 4(b) and 4(c) of the Plan in relation to the Option; and 

any conditions imposed by the Committee in lieu of those set out in Article G, Paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of the Plan in relation to the Option. Any such conditions will not take effect in relation to the Option until they have been approved by the Inland Revenue. 
       
  13.      Earliest Date for Grant of Options 
    
  An Option may not be granted earlier than the Approval Date. 
    
  14.      Persons to Whom Options May be Granted 
    
  An Option may not be granted to an individual who is not an Eligible Employee at the Date of Grant. 
    
  15.      Options Non Transferable 
    
  Notwithstanding Article G, Paragraph 6 of the Plan, an Option shall be personal to the Eligible Employee to whom it is granted and, subject to rule 24, shall not be capable of being transferred, charged or otherwise alienated and shall lapse immediately if the Option Holder purports to transfer, charge or otherwise alienate the Option. 
    
  16.      Limit on Number of Shares Placed Under Option Under Sub-Plan 
    
  For the avoidance of doubt, Shares placed under Option under the Sub-Plan shall be taken into account for the purpose of Article D, Paragraph 1 of the Plan. 

17.      Inland Revenue Limit ( 30,000) 
    
  An Option may not be granted to an Eligible Employee if the result of granting the Option would be that the aggregate Market Value of the shares subject to all outstanding options granted to him under the Sub-Plan or any other share option scheme established by the Company or an Associated Company and approved by the Board of Inland Revenue under Schedule 9 to ICTA 1988 (other than a savings related share option scheme) would exceed sterling  30,000 or such other limit as may from time to time be specified in paragraph 28 of Schedule 9 to ICTA 1988. For this purpose, the United Kingdom sterling equivalent of the Market Value of a share on any day shall be determined by taking the spot sterling/US dollar exchange rate for that day as shown in the Financial Times. If the grant of an Option would otherwise cause the limit in this rule 17 to be exceeded, it shall take effect as the grant of an Option under the Sub-Plan over the highest number of Shares which does not cause the limit to be exceeded together with the grant of an option under the Plan over the balance of the Shares. 
    
  18.      Exercise Price Under Options 
    
  Notwithstanding Article F, Paragraph 7 of the Plan, the amount payable per Share on the exercise of an Option shall not be less than the Market Value of a Share on the Date of Grant and shall be stated on the Date of Grant. 
    
  19.      Performance Target or Other Condition Imposed on Exercise of Options 
    
  Any performance target or other condition imposed on the exercise of an Option under Article J of the Plan shall be: 
    
  19.1    objective; 
    
  19.2    such that, once satisfied, the exercises of the Option is not subject to the discretion of any person; and 
    
  19.3    stated on the Date of Grant. 
    
  If an event occurs as a result of which the Committee considers that a performance target or other condition imposed on the exercise of an Option is no longer appropriate and substitutes, varies or waives under Article J of the Plan the performance target or condition, such substitution, variation or waiver shall: 
    
  19.4    be reasonable in the circumstances; and 
    
  19.5    except in the case of waiver produce a fairer measure of performance and not be materially more difficult to satisfy. 
    
  20.      Latest Date for Exercise of Options 
    
  An Option may not be exercised more than ten years after the Date of Grant and to the extent not so exercised by that time the Option shall lapse immediately. 
    
  21.      Material Interest 
    
  An Option may not be exercised if the Option Holder then has, or has had within the preceding twelve months, a Material Interest in a Close Company which is the Company or which is a company which has Control of the Company or which is a member of a Consortium which owns the Company. 
    
  22.      Payment for Shares on Exercise of Options 
    
  The amount due on the exercise of an Option shall be paid in cash or by cheque or banker's draft and may be paid out of funds provided to the Option Holder on loan by a bank, broker or other person. Notwithstanding Article H of the Plan, the amount may not be paid by the transfer to the Company of Shares or any other shares or securities, and the Company must not charge an administrative fee for the exercise of an Option. The date of exercise of an Option shall be the date on which the Company receives the amount due on the exercise of the Option. 
    
  23.      Issue or Transfer of Shares on Exercise of Options 
    
  The Company shall, as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event not later than thirty days after the date of exercise of an Option, issue or transfer to the Option Holder, or procure the issue or transfer to the Option Holder of, the number of Shares  

specified in the notice of exercise, subject only to compliance by the Option Holder with the rules of the Sub-Plan and to any delay necessary to complete or obtain: 
    
  23.1    the listing of the Shares on any stock exchange on which Shares are then listed; or 
    
  23.2    such registration or other qualification of the Shares under any applicable law, rule or regulation as the Company determines is necessary or desirable. 
    
  24.      Death of Option Holder 
    
  Subject to rules 20 and 21, if an Option Holder dies before the tenth anniversary of the Date of Grant, his personal representatives shall be entitled to exercise his Options at any time during the twelve month period following his death. If not so exercised, the Options shall lapse immediately. 
    
  25.      Change in Control of Company 
    
  25.1      Exchange of Options 
    
  If a company ( Acquiring Company ) obtains Control of the Company as a result of making: 
    
  25.1.1    a general offer to acquire the whole of the issued Ordinary Share Capital of the Company which is made on a condition such that if it is satisfied the person making the offer will have Control of the Company; or 
    
  25.1.2    a general offer to acquire all the shares in the Company of the same class as the Shares an Option Holder may, at any time during the period set out in rule 25.2, by agreement with the Acquiring Company, release his Option in consideration of the grant to him of a new option ( New Option ) which is equivalent to the Option but which relates to shares ( New Shares ) in: 
    
  25.1.3    the Acquiring Company; 
    
  25.1.4    a company which has Control of the Acquiring Company; or 
    
  25.1.5    a company which either is, or has Control of, a company which is a member of a Consortium which owns either the Acquiring Company or a company having Control of the Acquiring Company. 
    
  25.2      Period Allowed for Exchange of Options 
    
  The period referred to in rule 25.1 is the period of six months beginning with the time when the person making the offer has obtained Control of the Company and any condition subject to which the offer is made has been satisfied. 
    
  25.3      Meaning of  Equivalent  
    
  The New Option shall not be regarded for the purpose of this rule 25 as equivalent to the Option unless: 
    
  25.3.1        the New Shares satisfy the conditions in paragraphs 10 to 14 of Schedule 9 to ICTA 1988; and 
    
  25.3.2    save for any performance target or other condition imposed on the exercise of the Option, the New Option will be exercisable in the same manner as the Option and subject to the provisions of the Sub-Plan as it had effect immediately before the release of the Option; and 
    
  25.3.3    the total market value, immediately before the release of the Option, of the Shares which were subject to the Option is equal to the total market value, immediately after the grant of the New Option, of the New Shares subject to the New Option (market value being determined for this purpose in accordance with Part VIII of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992); and 
    
  25.3.4    the total amount payable by the Option Holder for the acquisition of the New Shares under the New Option is equal to the total amount that would have been payable by the Option Holder for the acquisition of the Shares under the Option. 
    
  25.4      Date of Grant of New Option 
    
  The date of grant of the New Option shall be deemed to be the same as the Date of Grant of the Option. 

25.5      Application of Sub-Plan to New Option 
    
  In the application of the Sub-Plan to the New Option, where appropriate, references to  Company  and  Shares  shall be read as if they were references to the company to whose shares the New Option relates and the New Shares, respectively. 
    
  26.      Rights Attaching to Shares Issued on Exercise of Options 
    
  Notwithstanding Article B, Paragraph 2 of the Plan, all Shares issued in respect of the exercise of an Option shall, as to any voting, dividend, transfer and other rights, including those arising on a liquidation of the Company, rank equally in all respects and as one class with the shares of the same class in issue at the date of such issue save as regards any rights attaching to such shares by reference to a record date prior to the date of such issue. 
    
  27.      Amendment of Sub-Plan 
    
  Notwithstanding Article L of the Plan, no amendment of the Sub-Plan, whether taking the form of an amendment of the Plan or this schedule, shall take effect until it has been approved by the Inland Revenue. 
    
  28.      Adjustment of Options 
    
  Notwithstanding Article K of the Plan, any adjustment of an Option: 
    
  28.1    shall not be made unless the adjustment is permitted pursuant to paragraph 29 of Schedule 9 to ICTA 1988; and 
    
  28.2    shall not take effect until it has been approved by the Inland Revenue. 
    
  29.      Tax and Social Security Withholding 
    
  An Option may not be exercised unless the Option Holder has beforehand made provision for the payment or withholding of any taxes and social security required to be withheld in accordance with the applicable law of any jurisdiction in respect of the exercise of the Option, or the receipt of the Shares. 
    
  30.      Exercise of Discretion by Committee 
    
  In exercising any discretion which it may have under the Sub-Plan, the Committee shall act fairly and reasonably. The Committee's authority under Article F, Paragraph 2 of the Plan shall not apply to Options granted under the Sub-Plan. 
    
  31.      Disapplication of Certain Provisions of Plan 
    
  The provisions of the Plan dealing with: 

incentive stock options qualifying under section 422 of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; 

stock appreciation rights; 

unrestricted or restricted stock awards; and 

performance awards which are not stock options shall not form part of, and no such rights may be granted under, the Sub-Plan. 

1992 Stock Plan 
    
  SCHEDULE D 
    
  FRANCE 
    
  Article A.        Introduction 
    
  The Board of Directors of The Procter   Gamble Company (the  Company ) has established a 1992 Stock Plan (the  U.S. Plan ) for the benefit of certain employees of the Company and its subsidiary companies, including its French subsidiaries,     (the  Subsidiary )     of which the Company holds directly or indirectly at least 50% of the share capital.     Article B of the U.S. Plan specifically authorizes the Compensation Committee (or other committee) (the  Committee ) designated by the Board of Directors (the  Board ), to adopt procedures and forms relating to the U.S. Plan as it deems advisable with respect to foreign participants. The Committee, therefore, intends to establish a sub-plan for France of the U.S. Plan for the purpose of granting Options which may qualify for the favorable tax and social security treatment in France applicable to Options granted under Sections L. 225-177 to L. 225-186 of the French Commercial Code as amended to qualifying employees who are resident in France for French tax purposes (the  Optionees ). The terms of the U.S. Plan, as subsequently amended and as set out in Appendix 1 hereto, shall, subject to the modifications in the following rules, constitute the Stock Plan for Employees in France (the  French Plan ). 
    
  Under the French Plan, the Optionees will be granted only Options as defined under Article B hereunder. In no case will grants under the French Plan include any other substitute awards, e.g. stock appreciation rights or restricted stock. 
    
  Article B.        Definitions 
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in the French Plan shall have the same meanings as set forth in the U.S. Plan. 
    
  In addition, the term  Option  shall have the following meaning: 
    
  A.    Purchase Options, that are rights to acquire Common Stock repurchased by the Company prior to the vesting of said Options; or 
    
  B.    Subscription Options, that are rights to subscribe newly issued Common Stock. 
    
  The term  Closed Period  means specific periods as set forth by section L. 225-177 of the French Commercial Code as amended during which French qualifying Options cannot be granted. 
    
  Notwithstanding any provisions in the U.S. Plan, the term  Grant Date  shall be the date on which the Board or the Committee both (a) designates the Optionee and (b) specifies the terms and conditions of the Option including the number of shares and the method of determining the Option Price. 
    
  The term  Effective Grant Date  shall be the date on which the Option is effectively granted,   i.e.,   the date on which the condition precedent of the expiration of a Closed Period applicable to the Option, if any, is satisfied. Such condition precedent shall be satisfied when the Board, Committee or other authorized body shall determine that the granting of Options is no longer prevented under a Closed Period. If the Grant Date does not occur within a Closed Period, the  Effective Grant Date  shall be the same day as the  Grant Date . 
    
  The term  Vesting Date  shall mean the date on which an Optionee's right to all or a portion of an Option granted under the French Plan becomes non-forfeitable. 
    
  Article C.        Entitlement to Participate 
    
  Any individual who at the Effective Grant Date of the Option under the French Plan is either an employee of the Subsidiary as defined by French law or who is a corporate officer of the Subsidiary, shall be eligible to receive Options under the French Plan provided that he or she also satisfies the eligibility conditions of the U.S. Plan. Options may not be issued to directors of the Subsidiary, other than managing directors (Pr sident du Conseil d'Administration, Directeur G n ral, Directeur G n ral D l gu , Membre du Directoire, G rant de soci t s par actions), unless the director is an employee of the Subsidiary as defined by French law. 

Article D.        Conditions of the Option 
    
  Notwithstanding any provision in the U.S. Plan to the contrary, the terms and conditions of any Options granted under the French Plan shall not be modified after the Effective Grant Date except as provided under Article G or H below or unless otherwise authorized by French law. 
    
  Notwithstanding any provision in the U.S. Plan to the contrary and since Common Stock of the Company is traded on a regulated securities market, no Options may be granted to eligible Optionees in France during specific Closed Periods as set forth by section L. 225-177 of the French Commercial Code as amended to the extent such Closed Periods are applicable to the Options. 
    
  1.        Vesting and Exercisability 
    
  The Options will vest and be exercisable pursuant     to the terms and conditions set forth in the U.S. Plan and the French Plan and any stock option agreement or notice. As such, no Option can be exercised before the Vesting Date. However, in the case of death of an Optionee, outstanding Options shall be immediately vested and exercisable under the conditions set forth in Article F of the French Plan. 
    
  The Vesting of Options may be accelerated in accordance with the Change in Control provisions of the U.S. Plan noted in the Article H below. 
    
  Specific provisions apply in the event of termination of employment/service and death as provided in Article F below. 
    
  2.        Option Price 
    
  The method of determining the option price payable pursuant to Options issued hereunder ( Option Price ) shall be fixed by the Committee on the Grant Date. If Options are considered granted on the Effective Grant Date, the Option price will be determined in accordance with the method set forth by the Committee on the Grant Date. In no event shall the Option Price per share be less than the greater of: 
    
  a.    with respect to Purchase Options over Common Stock, the higher of either 80% of the average opening price of such Common Stock during the 20 days of quotation immediately preceding the Effective Grant Date or 80% of the average purchase price paid for such Common Stock by the Company; 
    
  b.    with respect to Subscription Options over the Common Stock, 80% of the average opening price of such Common Stock during the 20 days of quotation immediately preceding the Effective Grant Date; and 
    
  c.    the minimum Option Price permitted under the U.S. Plan. 
    
  3.        Payment of the Option Price 
    
  Notwithstanding any provisions in the U.S. Plan to the contrary, upon exercise of an Option, the full Option Price will be paid either in cash, by check or by credit transfer, exclusive of any other method of payment. Under a cashless exercise program, the Optionee may give irrevocable instructions to a stockbroker to properly deliver the Option Price to the Company. Notwithstanding any provisions in the U.S. Plan to the contrary, no delivery of previously owned shares having a fair market value on the date of delivery equal to the aggregate Option Price exercise price of the shares may be used as consideration for exercising the Options. 
    
  Furthermore, notwithstanding any provisions in the U.S. Plan to the contrary, shares owed to the Optionee upon exercise may not be withheld in order to meet the tax and/or social security contributions which might be due at the time of exercise or sale of the underlying shares. However, upon sale of the underlying shares, the Company and/or the Subsidiary shall have the right to withhold, or request any third party to withhold, from the proceeds to be paid to the Optionee the sums corresponding to any social security contributions due at exercise or sale by the Optionee. If such amounts are due and are not withheld, the Optionee agrees to submit the amount due to the Subsidiary by means of check, cash or credit transfer. 
    
  The Shares acquired upon exercise of an Option will be recorded in an account in the name of the shareholder with a broker or in such other manner as the Company may otherwise determine in order to ensure compliance with applicable law. 

Article E.        Non-transferability of Options 
    
  Notwithstanding any provision in the U.S. Plan to the contrary and except in the case of death, Options cannot be transferred to any third party. In addition, the Options are only exercisable by the Optionee during the lifetime of the Optionee. 
    
  Article F.        Death 
    
  In the event of the death of an Optionee. any outstanding Options on date of death shall become immediately vested and exercisable. The Optionee's heirs may exercise the Option within six months following the death, but any Option which remains unexercised shall expire six months following the date of the Optionee's death. 
    
  Article G  .      Changes In Capitalization 
    
  Notwithstanding any provisions of the U.S. Plan to the contrary, adjustments to the Option Price and/or the number of shares subject to an Option issued hereunder shall be made to preclude the dilution or enlargement of benefits under the Option only in the event of one or more of the transactions listed below by the Company. Furthermore, even upon occurrence of one or more of the transactions listed below, no adjustment to the kind of shares to be granted shall be made (  i.e.  , only shares of Common Stock shall be granted to Optionees). The transactions are as follows: 
    
  1.    an issuance of new shares for cash consideration reserved to the Company's existing shareholders; 
  2.    an issuance of convertible or exchangeable bonds reserved to the Company's existing shareholders; 
  3.    a capitalization of retained earnings, profits, or issuance premiums; 
  4.    a distribution of reserves by payment in cash or shares; 
  5.    a cancellation of shares in order to absorb losses; and 
  6.    the repurchase of its own shares by a listed company at a price higher than the stock quotation price in the open market. 
    
  Article H.         Change in Control 
    
  In the event that a significant decrease in the value of Options granted to the Optionee occurs or is likely to occur as a result of a Change of Control of the Company or a liquidation, reorganization, merger, consolidation or amalgamation with another company in which the Company is not the surviving company, the Committee may, accordingly to the provisions of the U.S. Plan, in its discretion, authorize immediate vesting and exercise of Options before the date on which any Change of Control, liquidation, reorganization, merger, consolidation or amalgamation becomes effective. 
    
  Article I.        No Surrender of Options 
    
  Notwithstanding the provisions of the U.S. Plan, Optionees may not surrender Options in lieu of exercise for cash. 
    
  Article J.        No Conversion 
    
  Notwithstanding the provisions of the U.S. Plan, Optionees may not convert cash compensation into Options. 
    
  Article K.        Interpretation 
    
  In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the present French Plan and the U.S. Plan, the provisions of the French Plan shall control for any grants made thereunder to Optionees. 
    
  Article L.        Employment Rights 
    
  The adoption of this French Plan shall not confer upon the Optionees any employment rights and shall not be construed as a part of the Optionee's employment contracts. Article F.1(b) of the U.S. Plan does not apply to Optionees in France. 
    
  Article M.        Adoption 
    
  The French Plan was originally adopted on February 22, 1999, and amended and restated on October 9, 2001. 

2001 Stock Plan 
    
  SCHEDULE E 
    
  FRANCE 
    
  Article A.        Introduction 
    
  The Board of Directors of The Procter   Gamble Company (the  Company ) has established a 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  U.S. Plans ) for the benefit of certain employees of the Company and its subsidiary companies, including its French subsidiaries,     (the  Subsidiary )     of which the Company holds directly or indirectly at least 50% of the share capital.     Article B of the U.S. Plan specifically authorizes the Compensation Committee (or other committee) (the  Committee ) designated by the Board of Directors (the   Board ) to adopt procedures and forms relating to the U.S. Plan as it deems advisable with respect to foreign participants. The Board, therefore, intends to establish a sub-plan for France of the U.S. Plan for the purpose of granting Options which may qualify for the favorable tax and social security treatment in France applicable to Options granted under Sections L. 225-177 to L. 225-186 of the French Commercial Code as amended to qualifying employees who are resident in France for French tax purposes (the  Optionees ). The terms of the U.S. Plan, as subsequently amended and as set out in Appendix 1 hereto, shall, subject to the modifications in the following rules, constitute the Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan for Employees in France (the  French Plan ). 
    
  Under the French Plan, the Optionees will be granted only Options as defined under Article B hereunder. In no case will grants under the French Plan include any other substitute awards,   e.g.  , stock appreciation rights and restricted stock. 
    
  Article B.        Definitions 
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in the French Plan shall have the same meanings as set forth in the U.S. Plan. 
    
  In addition, the term  Option  shall have the following meaning: 
    
  A.    Purchase Options, that are rights to acquire Common Stock repurchased by the Company prior to the vesting of said Options; or 
    
  B.    Subscription Options, that are rights to subscribe newly issued Common Stock. 
    
  The term  Closed Period  means specific periods as set forth by section L. 225-177 of the French Commercial Code as amended during which French qualifying Options cannot be granted. 
    
  Notwithstanding any provisions in the U.S. Plan, the term  Grant Date  shall be the date on which the Board or the Committee both (a) designates the Optionee and (b) specifies the terms and conditions of the Option including the number of shares and the method of determining the Option Price. 
    
  The term  Effective Grant Date  shall be the date on which the Option is effectively granted,   i.e.  , the date on which the condition precedent of the expiration of a Closed Period applicable to the Option, if any, is satisfied. Such condition precedent shall be satisfied when the Board, Committee or other authorized body shall determine that the granting of Options is no longer prevented under a Closed Period. If the Grant Date does not occur within a Closed Period, the "Effective Grant Date" shall be the same day as the  Grant Date . 
    
  The term  Vesting Date  shall mean the date on which an Optionee's right to all or a portion of an Option granted under the French Plan becomes non-forfeitable. 
    
  Article C.        Entitlement to Participate 
    
  Any individual who at the Effective Grant Date of the Option under the French Plan is either an employee of the Subsidiary as defined by French law or who is a corporate officer of the Subsidiary, shall be eligible to receive Options under the French Plan provided that he or she also satisfies the eligibility conditions of the U.S. Plan. Options may not be issued under the French Plan to employees or officers owning more than ten percent (10%) of the Company's share capital or to individuals other than employees and corporate officers of the Subsidiary. Options may not be issued to directors of the Subsidiary, other than managing directors (Pr sident du Conseil d'Administration, Directeur G n ral, Directeur G n ral D l gu , Membre du Directoire, G rant de soci t s par actions), the director is an employee of the Subsidiary as defined by French law. 

Article D.        Conditions of the Option 
    
  Notwithstanding any provision in the U.S. Plan to the contrary, the terms and conditions of any Options granted under the French Plan shall not be modified after the Effective Grant Date, except as provided under Article G or H below or unless otherwise authorized by French law. 
    
  Notwithstanding any provision in the U.S. Plan to the contrary and since Common Stock of the Company is traded on a regulated securities market, no Option may be granted to eligible Optionees in France during specific Closed Periods as set forth by section L. 225-177 of the French Commercial Code as amended to the extent such Closed Periods are applicable to the Options. 
    
  1.        Vesting and Exercisability 
    
  The Options will vest and be exercisable pursuant     to the terms and conditions set forth in the U.S Plan and the French Plan and any stock option agreement or notice. As such, no Option can be exercised before the Vesting Date. However, in the case of death of an Optionee, outstanding Options shall be immediately vested and exercisable under the conditions set forth in Article F of the French Plan. 
    
  The Vesting of Options may be accelerated in accordance with the Change in Control provisions of the U.S. Plan noted in Article H below. 
    
  Specific provisions apply in the event of termination of employment/service and death as provided in Article F below. 
    
  2.        Option Price 
    
  The method of determining the option price payable pursuant to Options issued hereunder shall be fixed by the Committee on the date the Option is granted ( Option Price ). If Options are considered granted on the Effective Grant Date, the Option price will be determined in accordance with the method set forth by the Board on the Grant Date. In no event shall the Option Price per share be less than the greater of: 
    
  a.    with respect to Purchase Options over Common Stock, the higher of either 80% of the average opening price of such Common Stock during the 20 days of quotation immediately preceding the Effective Grant Date or 80% of the average purchase price paid for such Common Stock by the Company; 
    
  b.    with respect to Subscription Options over the Common Stock, 80% of the average opening price of such Common Stock during the 20 days of quotation immediately preceding the Effective Grant Date; and 
    
  c.    the minimum Option Price permitted under the U.S. Plan. 
    
  3.        Payment of the Option Price 
    
  Notwithstanding any provisions in the U.S. Plan to the contrary, upon exercise of an Option, the full Option Price will be paid either in cash, by check or by credit transfer, exclusive of any other method of payment. Under a cashless exercise program, the Optionee may give irrevocable instructions to a stockbroker to properly deliver the Option Price to the Company. Notwithstanding any provisions in the U.S. Plan to the contrary, no delivery of previously owned shares having a fair market value on the date of delivery equal to the aggregate Option Price of the shares may be used as consideration for exercising the Options. 
    
  Furthermore, notwithstanding any provisions in the U.S. Plan to the contrary, shares owed to the Optionee upon exercise may not be withheld in order to meet the tax and/or social security contributions which might be due at the time of exercise or sale of the underlying shares. However, upon sale of the underlying shares, the Company and/or the Subsidiary shall have the right to withhold, or request any third party to withhold, from the proceeds to be paid to the Optionee the sums corresponding to any social security contributions due at exercise or sale by the Optionee. If such amounts are due and are not withheld, the Optionee agrees to submit the amount due to the Subsidiary by means of check, cash or credit transfer. 
    
  The shares acquired upon exercise of an Option will be recorded in an account in the name of the shareholder with a broker or in such other manner as the Company may otherwise determine in order to ensure compliance with applicable law. 

4.        Mandatory Holding Period 
    
  A specific holding period for the Common Stock or a restriction on the exercise of Options may be specified for Optionees in France who serve as managing directors     under French law ( mandataires sociaux ). French law defines the following positions as mandataires sociaux: Pr sident du Conseil d'Administration, Directeur G n ral, Directeur G n ral D l gu , Membre du Directoire, G rant de Soci t s par actions. 
    
  Article E.        Non-Transferability of Options 
    
  Notwithstanding any provision in the U.S. Plan to the contrary and except in the case of death, Options cannot be transferred to any third party. In addition, the Options are only exercisable by the Optionee during the lifetime of the Optionee. 
    
  Article F.        Death 
    
  In the event of the death of an Optionee. any outstanding Options on date of death shall become immediately vested and exercisable. The Optionee's heirs may exercise the Option within six months following the death, but any Option which remains unexercised shall expire six months following the date of the Optionee's death. 
    
  Article G.        Changes in Capitalization 
    
  Notwithstanding any provisions of the U.S. Plan to the contrary, adjustments to the Option Price and/or the number of shares subject to an Option issued hereunder shall be made to preclude the dilution or enlargement of benefits under the Option only in the event of one or more of the transactions listed below by the Company. Furthermore, even upon occurrence of one or more of the transactions listed below, no adjustment to the kind of shares to be granted shall be made (  i.e.  , only shares of Common Stock shall be granted to Optionees). The transactions are as follows: 
    
  1.    an issuance of new shares for cash consideration reserved to the Company's existing shareholders; 
  2.    an issuance of convertible or exchangeable bonds reserved to the Company's existing shareholders; 
  3.    a capitalization of retained earnings, profits, or issuance premiums; 
  4.    a distribution of reserves by payment in cash or shares; 
  5.    a cancellation of shares in order to absorb losses; and 
  6.    the repurchase of its own shares by a listed company at a price higher than the stock quotation price in the open market. 
    
  Article H.         Change in Control 
    
  In the event that a significant decrease in the value of Options granted to the Optionee occurs or is likely to occur as a result of a Change of Control of the Company or a liquidation, reorganization, merger, consolidation or amalgamation with another company in which the Company is not the surviving company, the Committee may, accordingly to the provisions of the U.S. Plan, in its discretion, authorize immediate vesting and exercise of Options before the date on which any Change of Control, liquidation, reorganization, merger, consolidation or amalgamation becomes effective. 
    
  Article I.        No Surrender of Options 
    
  Notwithstanding the provisions of the U.S. Plan, Optionees may not surrender Options in lieu of exercise for cash. 
    
  Article J.        No Conversion 
    
  Notwithstanding the provisions of the U.S. Plan, Optionees may not convert cash compensation into Options. 
    
  Article K.        Interpretation 
    
  In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the present French Plan and the U.S. Plan, the provisions of the French Plan shall control for any grants made thereunder to Optionees. 

Article L.        Employment Rights 
    
  The adoption of this French Plan shall not confer upon the Optionees any employment rights and shall not be construed as a part of the Optionee's employment contracts. Article F.1(b) of the U.S. Plan does not apply to Optionees in France. 
    
  Article M.        Adoption 
    
  The French Plan is effective as of October 9, 2001. 

2009 Plan 
    
  SCHEDULE F 
    
  FRANCE 
    
  Article A.        Introduction 
    
  The Board of Directors of The Procter   Gamble Company (the  Company ) has established a 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  U.S. Plan ) for the benefit of certain employees of the Company and its subsidiary companies, including its French subsidiaries,     (the  Subsidiary )     of which the Company holds directly or indirectly at least 10% of the share capital.     Article B of the U.S. Plan specifically authorizes the Compensation Committee (or other committee) (the  Committee ) designated by the Board of Directors (the   Board ) to adopt procedures and forms relating to the U.S. Plan as it deems advisable with respect to foreign participants. The Board, therefore, intends to establish a sub-plan for France of the U.S. Plan for the purpose of granting Options which may qualify for the favorable tax and social security treatment in France applicable to Options granted under Sections L. 225-177 to L. 225-186-1 of the French Commercial Code as amended to qualifying employees under the U.S. Plan who are resident in France for French tax purposes (the  Optionees ). The terms of the U.S. Plan, as subsequently amended and as set out in Appendix 1 hereto, shall, subject to the modifications in the following rules, constitute the Rules of the 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan for Employees in France (the  French Plan ). 
    
  Under the French Plan, the Optionees will be granted only Options as defined under Article B hereunder. In no case will grants under the French Plan include any other substitute awards,   e.g.  , stock appreciation rights and restricted stock. 
    
  Article B.        Definitions 
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in the French Plan shall have the same meanings as set forth in the U.S. Plan. 
    
  In addition, the term  Option  shall have the following meaning: 
    
  A.    Purchase Options, that are rights to acquire Common Stock repurchased by the Company prior to the vesting of said Options; or 
    
  B.    Subscription Options, that are rights to subscribe newly issued Common Stock. 
    
  The term  Closed Period  means specific periods as set forth by section L. 225-177 of the French Commercial Code as amended during which French qualifying Options cannot be granted. 
    
  Notwithstanding any provisions in the U.S. Plan, the term  Grant Date  shall be the date on which the Board or the Committee both (a) designates the Optionee and (b) specifies the terms and conditions of the Option including the number of shares and the method of determining the Option Price. 
    
  The term  Effective Grant Date  shall be the date on which the Option is effectively granted,   i.e.  , the date on which the condition precedent of the expiration of a Closed Period applicable to the Option, if any, is satisfied. Such condition precedent shall be satisfied when the Board, Committee or other authorized body shall determine that the granting of Options is no longer prevented under a Closed Period. If the Grant Date does not occur within a Closed Period, the "Effective Grant Date" shall be the same day as the  Grant Date . 
    
  The term  Vesting Date  shall mean the date on which an Optionee's right to all or a portion of an Option granted under the French Plan becomes non-forfeitable. 
    
  The term  Disability  is defined in accordance with categories 2 and 3 under Section 
  L. 341-4 of the French Social Security Code, as amended, and subject to the fulfillment of related conditions. 
    
  The term  Forced Retirement  shall mean forced retirement as determined under Section L. 1237-5 of the French Labor Code, as amended, and subject to the fulfillment of related conditions. 

Article C.        Entitlement to Participate 
    
  Any individual who at the Effective Grant Date of the Option under the French Plan is either employed under the terms and conditions of an employment contract (   contrat de travail   ) with the Subsidiary or is a corporate officer of the Subsidiary, shall be eligible to receive Options under the French Plan provided that he or she also satisfies the eligibility conditions of the U.S. Plan. Options may not be issued under the French Plan to employees or officers owning more than ten percent (10%) of the Company's share capital or to individuals other than employees and corporate officers of the Subsidiary. Options may not be issued to directors of the Subsidiary, other than managing directors (Pr sident du Conseil d'Administration, Directeur G n ral, Directeur G n ral D l gu , Membre du Directoire, G rant de soci t s par actions), unless the director is an employee of the Subsidiary as defined by French law. 
    
  Article D.        Conditions of the Option 
    
  To ensure the qualified status of Options under the French Plan, the terms and conditions of any Options granted under the French Plan shall not be modified after the Effective Grant Date, unless otherwise authorized by French law. 
    
  Notwithstanding any provision in the U.S. Plan to the contrary and since Common Stock of the Company is traded on a regulated securities market, no Option may be granted to eligible Optionees in France during specific Closed Periods as set forth by section L. 225-177 of the French Commercial Code as amended to the extent such Closed Periods are applicable to the Options. 
    
  1.        Vesting and Exercisability of Options and Holding of Common Stock 
    
  The Options will vest and be exercisable pursuant     to the terms and conditions set forth in the U.S Plan and the French Plan and any stock option agreement or notice. As such, no Option can be exercised before the Vesting Date. However, in the case of death of an Optionee, outstanding Options shall be immediately vested and exercisable under the conditions set forth in Article F of the French Plan. 
    
  The vesting of Options may be accelerated in accordance with the Change in Control provisions of the U.S. Plan as noted in Article H below. 
    
  Notwithstanding any provision in the U.S. Plan, the Optionee will not be permitted to sell or transfer shares of Common Stock acquired upon exercise of an Option before the expiration of the applicable holding period for French qualifying Options set forth by Section 163 bis C of the French Tax Code, as amended, except as provided in this French Plan or as otherwise in keeping with French law. The holding period for French-qualified Options is currently four years from the Grant Date. To prevent the Optionee from selling or transferring the shares of Common Stock subject to the Option before the expiration of the applicable holding period, the Committee may, in its discretion, restrict the vesting and/or exercisability of the Option and/or the sale of shares of Common Stock until the expiration of the applicable holding period, as set forth in the stock option agreement to be delivered to each Optionee. However, the Optionee may be permitted to vest in or exercise the Option or transfer the shares of Common Stock subject to the Option before the expiration of the applicable holding period in the cases of dismissal, Forced Retirement, Disability or death, as defined in Section 91 ter of Exhibit II to the French Tax Code, as amended, but only as set forth in the stock option agreement to be delivered to the Optionee. In any case, the restriction of the sale of the shares of Common Stock cannot exceed three years as from the effective date of the exercise of the Options. 
    
  Specific provisions apply in the event of termination of employment/service and death as provided in Article F below. 
    
  2.        Option Price 
    
  The method of determining the option price payable pursuant to Options issued hereunder shall be fixed by the Committee on the date the Option is granted ( Option Price ). If Options are considered granted on the Effective Grant Date, the Option price will be determined in accordance with the method set forth by the Committee on the Grant Date. In no event shall the Option Price per share be less than the greater of: 
    
  a.    with respect to Purchase Options over Common Stock, the higher of either 80% of the average opening price of such Common Stock during the 20 days of quotation immediately preceding the Effective Grant Date or 80% of the average purchase price paid for such Common Stock by the Company; 
    
  b.    with respect to Subscription Options over the Common Stock, 80% of the average opening price of such Common Stock during the 20 days of quotation immediately preceding the Effective Grant Date; and 

c.    the minimum Option Price permitted under the U.S. Plan. 
    
  3.        Payment of the Option Price 
    
  Notwithstanding any provisions in the U.S. Plan to the contrary, upon exercise of an Option, the full Option Price will be paid either in cash, by check or by credit transfer, exclusive of any other method of payment. Under a cashless exercise program, the Optionee may give irrevocable instructions to a stockbroker to properly deliver the Option Price to the Company. Notwithstanding any provisions in the U.S. Plan to the contrary, no delivery of previously owned shares having a fair market value on the date of delivery equal to the aggregate Option Price of the shares may be used as consideration for exercising the Options. 
    
  Furthermore, notwithstanding any provisions in the U.S. Plan to the contrary, shares owed to the Optionee upon exercise may not be withheld in order to meet the tax and/or social security contributions which might be due at the time of exercise or sale of the underlying shares. However, upon sale of the underlying shares, the Company and/or the Subsidiary shall have the right to withhold, or request any third party to withhold, from the proceeds to be paid to the Optionee the sums corresponding to any social security contributions due at exercise or sale by the Optionee. If such amounts are due and are not withheld, the Optionee agrees to submit the amount due to the Subsidiary by means of check, cash or credit transfer. 
    
  The shares acquired upon exercise of an Option will be recorded in an account in the name of the shareholder with a broker or in such other manner as the Company may otherwise determine in order to ensure compliance with applicable law. 
    
  4.        Mandatory Holding Period 
    
  To the extent applicable to French-qualified Options granted by the Company, A specific holding period for the Common Stock or a restriction on the exercise of Options may be specified for Optionees in France who serve as managing directors under French law ( mandataires sociaux ). French law defines the following positions as mandataires sociaux: Pr sident du Conseil d'Administration, Directeur G n ral, Directeur G n ral D l gu , Membre du Directoire, G rant de Soci t s par actions. 
    
  Article E.        Non-Transferability of Options 
    
  Notwithstanding any provision in the U.S. Plan to the contrary and except in the case of death, Options cannot be transferred to any third party. In addition, the Options are only exercisable by the Optionee during the lifetime of the Optionee. 
    
  Article F.        Termination of Employment/Service 
    
  1.        Death 
    
  In the event of the death of an Optionee. any outstanding Options on date of death shall become immediately vested and exercisable. The Optionee's heirs may exercise the Option within six months following the death, but any Option which remains unexercised shall expire six months following the date of the Optionee's death. 
    
  2.        Disability 
    
  In the event of the Disability of a French Optionee, the French Optionee shall not be subject to the restriction on the sale of shares of Common Stock set forth in Article D.1 above. 
    
  3.        Forced Retirement or Dismissal 
    
  In the event of the Forced Retirement (as defined in Article B) or dismissal of a Optionee, as defined by Section 91-ter of Exhibit II to the French Tax Code as construed by the French tax and social security circulars and subject to the fulfillment of related conditions, his or her Option will benefit from the favorable treatment of French qualified Options upon sale of his or her shares of Common Stock , even if the compulsory holding period is not met, but only if the Option was exercised at least three (3) months prior to the effective date of the retirement or the delivery of the relevant dismissal notice to the Optionee, as defined by French law and as construed by competent French courts. 
    
  4.        Other Reasons 
    
  In the event of a termination of employment for reasons other than death, the Option shall be exercisable as set forth in the stock option agreement entered into with the Optionee. 

Article G.        Changes In Capitalization 
    
  To ensure the qualified status of Options under the French Plan, adjustments to the Option Price and/or the number of shares subject to an Option issued hereunder shall be made to preclude the dilution or enlargement of benefits under the Option only in the event of a transaction involving the Company listed under Section L. 225-181 of the French Commercial Code, as amended, a repurchase of Common Stock by the Company at a price higher than the stock quotation price on the open market, and according to the provisions of Section L. 228-99 of the French Commercial Code, as amended, as well as according to specific decrees.. Furthermore, even upon occurrence of a transaction involving the Company listed under Section L. 225-181 of the French Commercial Code, as amended, a repurchase of Common Stock by the Company at a price higher than the stock quotation price on the open market, and according to the provisions of Section L. 228-99 of the French Commercial Code, as amended, as well as according to specific decrees, no adjustment to the kind of shares to be granted shall be made (  i.e.  , only shares of Common Stock shall be granted to Optionees) to preserve the qualified status of the Option. In the event of an adjustment to the Option Price and/or the number of shares of Common Stock subject to an Option issued hereunder, other than as described in this Article G, the Options may not qualify for favorable income tax and social security treatment under French law. 
    
  Article H.            Change in Control 
    
  In the event that a significant decrease in the value of Options granted to the Optionee occurs or is likely to occur as a result of a Change of Control of the Company or a liquidation, reorganization, merger, consolidation or amalgamation with another company in which the Company is not the surviving company, the Committee may, accordingly to the provisions of the U.S. Plan, in its discretion, authorize immediate vesting and exercise of Options before the date on which any Change of Control, liquidation, reorganization, merger, consolidation or amalgamation becomes effective. If this occurs, the Options may not qualify for favorable income tax and social security treatment under French law. 
    
  Article I.        Disqualification of French-Qualified Options 
    
  If the Options are otherwise modified or adjusted in a manner in keeping with the terms of the U.S. Plan or as mandated as a matter of law and the modification or adjustment is contrary to the terms and conditions of this French Plan, the Options may no longer qualify as French-qualified options. The Company does not undertake nor is it required to maintain the French-qualified status of the Options, and the Optionees understand, acknowledge and agree that it will be their responsibility to bear any additional income taxes and/or social security contributions that may be payable as a result of the disqualification of the French-qualified Options. 
    
  If the Options no longer qualify as French-qualified options, the Committee may, provided it is authorized to do so under the U.S. Plan, lift, shorten or terminate certain restrictions applicable to the vesting of the Options, the exercisability of the Options, or the sale of the shares of Common Stock which may have been imposed under this French Plan or in the stock option agreement delivered to the Optionees. 
    
  Article J.        Term of the Option 
    
  The term of the Option will be no greater than nine (9) years and six (6) months after the Grant Date. The specific term will be specified in the applicable stock option agreement. This term can be extended only in the event of the death of the Optionee. 
    
  Article K.        No Surrender of Options 
    
  Notwithstanding the provisions of the U.S. Plan, Optionees may not surrender Options in lieu of exercise for cash. 
    
  Article L.        No Conversion 
    
  Notwithstanding the provisions of the U.S. Plan, Optionees may not convert cash compensation into Options. 
    
  Article M.        Interpretation 
    
  In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the present French Plan and the U.S. Plan, the provisions of the French Plan shall control for any grants made thereunder to Optionees. 
    
  It is intended that Options granted under the French Plan shall qualify for the favorable tax and social security treatment applicable to stock options granted under Sections L. 225-177 to L. 225-186-1 of the French Commercial Code, as amended, and in accordance with the relevant provisions set forth by French tax and social security laws and the French tax and social security administrations, but there are no undertakings to maintain this status. The terms of the French Plan shall be interpreted accordingly and in accordance  

with the relevant provisions set forth by French tax and social security laws, the French tax and social security administrations, any relevant Guidelines published by French tax and social security administrations and are subject to the fulfillment of legal, tax and reporting obligations, if any. 
    
  Article N.        Employment Rights 
    
  The adoption of this French Plan shall not confer upon the Optionees any employment rights and shall not be construed as a part of the Optionee's employment contracts. Articles F.1(b), F.1(c) and F.3 of the U.S. Plan do not apply to Optionees in France. 
    
  Article O.        Amendments 
    
  Subject to the terms of the U.S. Plan, the Committee reserves the right to amend or terminate the French Plan at any time. Such amendments would only apply to future grants and would not be retroactive. 
    
  Article P.        Adoption 
    
  The French Plan is effective as of December 8, 2009. 

SCHEDULE G 
    
  PROCTER   GAMBLE HYGIENE AND HEALTH CARE LIMITED 
    
  THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2009 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 
    
  INDIA PLAN 
    
  Procter   Gamble Hygiene and Health Care Limited ( the Indian Company ) is a subsidiary of The Procter   Gamble Company ( the Holding Company ). 
    
  The Holding Company is a company incorporated under the laws of the United States of America, having its registered office at 1 Procter   Gamble Plaza, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202-3315 and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 
    
  The Holding Company had formulated The Procter   Gamble 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan ( Global Plan ) for its employees and the employees of its subsidiaries  .   A copy of the same is enclosed marked Annexure 'A'. 
    
  Paragraph 2. of Article B of the Global Plan empowers the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee ( Committee ) to provide for special terms for any Stock Options granted to Participants of its subsidiaries outside of the United States of America in order to fairly accommodate for differences in local law, tax policy or custom and to approve such supplements to or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of the Global Plan as may be considered necessary or appropriate for such purposes. 
    
  In pursuance thereof, the Indian Company has formulated The Procter   Gamble 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan - India Plan ( India Plan ), which shall apply to employees of the Indian Company ( Participants ). 
    
  The India Plan is a part of the Global Plan as applicable to the employees of the Indian Company, and the terms and conditions of the Global Plan shall apply in relation hereto, except where there is an express provision in the India Plan to the contrary. 
    
  1.        Definitions 
    
  1.1    The  Stock Options  granted under the scheme will represent a right (and not an obligation) granted to an employee to apply for Shares at a pre-determined price. 
    
  1.2    The  Shares  allotted on exercise of Stock Options     shall mean the equity shares of the Holding Company. 
    
  1.3    The term  Promoter  means: 
    
  (a)    the person or persons who are in over-all control of the company; 
    
  (b)    the person or persons who are instrumental in the formation of the company or a program pursuant to which the shares were offered to the public; 
    
  (c)    the persons or persons named in the offer document for listing of the company as promoter(s). 
    
  Provided that a director or officer of the company, if he is acting as such only in his professional capacity will not be deemed to be a Promoter. Explanation: Where a promoter of a company is a body corporate, the Promoter of that body corporate shall also be deemed to be a promoter of the company. 
    
  1.4    The term  Promoter Group  means: 
    
  (a)    an immediate relative of the Promoter (i.e. spouse of that person, or any parent, brother, sister or child of the person or of the spouse); 
    
  (b)    persons whose shareholding is aggregated for the purpose of disclosing in the offer document for listing as  shareholding of the promoter group . 
    
  1.5    The term  Relative  means immediate relative namely spouse, parent, brother, sister or child of the person or the spouse. 

2.        The India Plan 
    
  The Participants of the India Plan are eligible only for grant of Stock Options to purchase Shares of the Holding Company (including Stock Options under a Performance Award), and not for grant of stock appreciation rights or award of a portion of the Participant's remuneration in shares. 
    
  The Plan is accordingly an  Employees Stock Option Scheme  as contemplated by the Guidelines regarding Employees' Stock Option Plan or Scheme issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes vide Notification No. 323/2001 dated 11.10.2001. 
    
  The Participants of the India Plan are only eligible for  Exercise and Sell Option  i.e. they shall exercise their option to purchase the Shares of the Holding Company and concurrently sell the Shares. The transaction would accordingly not involve any remittance from India. 
    
  The India Plan is accordingly in the nature of a Cashless Employees Stock Option Scheme as envisaged by the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or issue of any foreign security) Regulations, 2000 issued by the Reserve Bank of India. 
    
  3.        Total number of Shares to be issued to the Participants 
    
  The aggregate number of Shares that may be awarded is detailed in Article D of the Global Plan. The maximum number of Shares that can be awarded under the Global Plan is 160,000,000. 
    
  Out of the above Shares, the maximum aggregate number of Shares available for award under the India Plan is 10,000,000 Shares. 
    
  4.        The class of employees entitled to participate 
    
  In accordance with Article C of the Global Plan, the Committee shall select as Participants those employees of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries who, in the opinion of the Committee, have demonstrated a capacity for contributing in a substantial manner to the success of such companies. 
    
  5.        The pricing formula for allotment of Shares and price at which such Shares are offered 
    
  The exercise price for Stock Options shall be the fair market value of the Shares on the date of the grant. 
    
  The fair market value of the Shares shall be determined based on the closing price for Shares on the New York Stock Exchange on the grant date. 
    
  6.        The number of Shares, which would be issued to any employee or classes of employees and the basis of such award, if any 
    
  The maximum aggregate number of Shares available for award to the Participants under the India Plan is as under: 
    
  Band 3        4,000,000 Shares 
  Band 4        2,000,000 Shares 
  Band 5        2,000,000 Shares 
  Band 6          2,000,000 Shares 
  Total          10,000,000 Shares 
    
  The various Bands mentioned above refer to the various levels of employees in the hierarchy of the organization structure. 
    
  The basis of the award shall be the performance of the Participants, as determined by the Committee. 
    
  7.        The period by and the manner in which the approval of shareholders would be obtained 
    
  The     Holding Company has obtained the approval of its shareholders for issue of its Shares under the Global Plan. A copy of the shareholders' resolution in this regard is enclosed in Annexure 'B'. 
    
  A copy of Resolution of Board of Directors of the Indian Company, adopting the Global Plan, is enclosed in Annexure 'C'. 

8.        Lock-in period 
    
  No Stock Options are exercisable within three one years from their date of grant, except in the case of the death of the Participant. 
    
  9.        Non-transferability of Shares 
    
  The conditions relating to non-transferability of Shares are detailed in Article G of the Global Plan, which are applicable to the India Plan as well. 
    
  10.        Conditions 
    
  The conditions contained in this India Plan shall not be changed after it comes into effect. 
    
  11.        Compliance with regulatory provisions 
    
  The India Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, regulations, and notifications and to such approvals by any governmental agencies as may be required under Indian law. The grant of Stock Options shall entitle the Indian Company to require the Participants to comply with such requirements of law as may be necessary in the opinion of the Indian Company. 
    
  12.        Non-eligible Employees 
    
  An employee of the Indian Company, who is a Promoter or belongs to the Promoter Group or a director of the Indian Company who either by himself or through his Relative or through any body corporate, directly or indirectly holds more than 10% of the outstanding equity shares of the Holding Company or Indian Company shall not be eligible for grant of Stock Options. 
    
  13.        Grant of Stock Option 
    
  In pursuance of paragraph 2 of Article L of the Global Plan, the Stock Option granted to employees of the Indian Company to purchase Shares of the Holding Company, including the Stock Options granted prior to 1 March 2003 under the Global Plan, shall be deemed to be granted under the India Plan. 
    
  14.        Effective and termination dates 
    
  The India Plan will be effective from the 8 December 2009 and would terminate on the date indicated in Article O of the Global Plan. 

2009 Plan 
    
  SCHEDULE H 
    
  RULES OF THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2010 
  HM REVENUE   CUSTOMS APPROVED SUB-PLAN FOR THE 
  UNITED KINGDOM 

1.      General 
    
  This schedule to the Procter   Gamble 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan ( the Plan ) sets out the rules of the Procter   Gamble 2010 HM Revenue   Customs Approved Sub-Plan for the United Kingdom ( the Sub-Plan ). 
    
  2.      Establishment of Sub-Plan 
    
  The Procter   Gamble Company ( the Company ) has established the Sub-Plan under Article B, Paragraph 2 of the Plan, which authorises the Committee to establish sub-plans to the Plan. 
    
  3.      Purpose of the Sub-Plan 
    
  The purpose of the Sub-Plan is to enable the grant to, and subsequent exercise by, employees and directors in the United Kingdom, on a tax favoured basis, of options to acquire Shares under the Plan within the provisions of Schedule 4. 
    
  4.      HM Revenue   Customs Approval of Sub-Plan 
    
  The Sub-Plan is intended to be approved by HM Revenue   Customs under Schedule 4. 
    
  5.      Rules of Sub-Plan 
    
  The rules of the Plan, in their present form and as amended from time to time, shall, with the modifications set out in this schedule, form the rules of the Sub-Plan. In the event of any conflict between the rules of the Plan and this Sub-Plan, the Sub-Plan shall prevail. 
    
  6.      Relationship of Sub-Plan to Plan 
    
  The Sub-Plan shall form part of the Plan and not a separate and independent plan. 
    
  7.      Interpretation 
    
  In this Sub-Plan, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and expressions have the following meanings: 
    
                 Acquiring Company 
    a company which obtains Control of the Company in the circumstances referred to in rule 28; 
      Approval Date 
    the date on which the Sub-Plan is approved by HM Revenue   Customs under Schedule 4; 
      Associated Company 
    the meaning given to that expression by paragraph 35(1) of Schedule 4; 
      Close Company 
    the meaning given to that expression by section 989 of ITA 2007, and paragraph 9(4) of Schedule 4; 
      Committee 
    the Compensation   Leadership Development Committee of the Board or such other committee as may be designated by the Board to administer the Plan; 
      Consortium 
    the meaning given to that word by paragraph 36(2) of Schedule 4; 

Constituent Company 
    means the Company or a company which is: 
   a Subsidiary or 
   a Jointly Owned Company where neither it nor any company Controlled by it is a constituent company under the provisions of paragraph 34(4) in any other CSOP scheme as that term is defined in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4; 
      Control 
    the meaning given to that word by section 719 of ITEPA 2003 and  Controlled  shall be construed accordingly; 
      Date of Grant 
    the date on which an Option is granted to an Eligible Employee in accordance with the Articles of the Plan; 
      Eligible Employee 
    an individual who falls within the provisions of Article C of the Plan and who is: 
   an employee (other than a director) of a Constituent Company; or 
   a director of a Constituent Company who is contracted to work at least 25 hours per week for the Company and its subsidiaries or any of them (exclusive of meal breaks) 
   and who, in either case,: 
   is not eligible solely by reason that he is a non-executive director of a Constituent Company; 
   has earnings in respect of his office or employment which are (or would be if there were any) general earnings to which section 15, 22 or 26 of ITEPA 2003 applies;   and does not have at the Date of Grant of an Option, and has not had during the preceding twelve months, a Material Interest in a Close Company which is the Company or a company which has Control of the Company or a member of a Consortium which owns the Company; 
      ITA 2007 
    means the Income Tax Act 2007; 
      ITEPA 2003 
    means the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003; 
      Key Feature 
    means a provision of the Plan or Sub-Plan which is necessary in order to meet the requirements of Schedule 4; 
      Market Value 
    notwithstanding Article G, Paragraph 3 of the Plan,  (a) in the case of an Option granted under the Sub Plan:  (i) if at the relevant time the Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange the average of the highest and lowest sale prices of a Share on the Date of Grant (as quoted in the   Wall Street Journal  ) or, if there were no trades on that day, on the dealing day immediately preceding the Date of Grant; 
   (ii) if paragraph (i) above does not apply, the market value of a Share as determined in accordance with Part VIII of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 and agreed in advance with HM Revenue   Customs Shares Valuation on the Date of Grant or such earlier date or dates (not being more than thirty days before the Date of Grant) as may be agreed with HM Revenue   Customs; 
   (b) in the case of an option granted under any other share option scheme, the market value of a Share shall be determined under the rules of such scheme for the purpose of the grant of the option; 
      Material Interest 
    the meaning given to that expression by paragraphs 9 to 14 of Schedule 4; 
      New Option 
    an option granted by way of exchange under rule 28.1; 
      New Shares 
    the shares subject to a New Option as set out in rule 28; 
      Option 
    a right to acquire Shares granted under the Sub-Plan; 
      Option Holder 
    an individual who holds an Option or, where the context permits, his legal personal representatives; 
      Schedule 4 
    means Schedule 4 to ITEPA 2003; 
      Shares 
    common stock of the Company as defined in Article A of the Plan; and 

Subsidiary 
    means a company which is a subsidiary of the Company within the meaning of section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006 over which the Company has Control. 

In this Sub-Plan, unless the context otherwise requires: 

words and expressions not defined above have the same meanings as are given to them in the Plan; 

the contents and rule headings are inserted for ease of reference only and do not affect their interpretation; 

a reference to a rule is a reference to a rule in this Sub-Plan; 

the singular includes the plural and vice-versa and the masculine includes the feminine; and 

a reference to a statutory provision is a reference to a United Kingdom statutory provision and includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment thereof. 
       
  8.      Companies Participating in Sub-Plan 
    
  Notwithstanding Article L, Paragraph 3 of the Plan, the companies participating in the Sub-Plan shall be the Company and any Constituent Company which has been nominated by the Company to participate in the Sub-Plan. 
    
  9.      Shares Used in Sub-Plan 
    
  The Shares shall form part of the ordinary share capital of the Company and shall at all times comply with the requirements of paragraphs 16 to 20 of Schedule 4.         
    
  10.      Grant of Options 
    
  An Option shall be granted under and subject to the rules of the Plan as modified by this Sub-Plan. 
    
  11.      Identification of Options 
    
  An Option agreement issued in respect of an Option shall expressly state that it is issued in respect of an Option. An option which is not so identified shall not constitute an Option. 
    
  12.      Contents of Option Agreement 
    
  An Option agreement issued in respect of an Option shall state: 

that it is issued in respect of an Option; 

the date of grant of the Option; 

the number of Shares subject to the Option [or how that number may be calculated]; 

the exercise price under the Option [or the method by which the exercise price will be determined]; 

any performance target or other condition imposed on the exercise of the Option; 

the date(s) on which the Option will ordinarily become exercisable; 

whether the Committee has waived any, and if so which, of the provisions of Article G, Paragraph 9a) and 9(b) of the Plan in relation to the Option; and 

any conditions imposed by the Committee under Article B in lieu of those set out in Article G, Paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 11 of the Plan in relation to the Option. Any such conditions will not take effect in relation to the Option until they have been approved by HM Revenue   Customs. 

13.      Earliest Date for Grant of Options 
    
  An Option may not be granted earlier than the Approval Date. 
    
  14.      Persons to Whom Options May be Granted 
    
  An Option may not be granted to an individual who is not an Eligible Employee at the Date of Grant. 
    
  15.      Options Non Transferable 
    
  Notwithstanding Article G, Paragraphs, 7 and 8 of the Plan, an Option shall be personal to the Eligible Employee to whom it is granted and, subject to rule 26, shall not be capable of being transferred, charged or otherwise alienated and shall lapse immediately if the Option Holder purports to transfer, charge or otherwise alienate the Option. 
    
  16.      Limit on Number of Shares Placed Under Option Under Sub-Plan 
    
  For the avoidance of doubt, Shares placed under Option under the Sub-Plan shall be taken into account for the purpose of Article D, Paragraph 1 of the Plan. 
    
  17.      HM Revenue   Customs Limit ( 30,000) 
    
  An Option may not be granted to an Eligible Employee if the result of granting the Option would be that the aggregate Market Value of the shares subject to all outstanding options granted to him under the Sub-Plan or any other share option scheme established by the Company or an Associated Company and approved by HM Revenue   Customs under Schedule 4) would exceed sterling  30,000 or such other limit as may from time to time be specified in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4. 
    
  18.      Foreign Currency Options 
    
  For the purpose of the limit contained in rule 17, the United Kingdom sterling equivalent of the Market Value of a share on any day shall be determined by taking the spot sterling/US dollar exchange rate for that day as shown in the Financial Times. 
    
  19.      Scaling Down 
    
  If the grant of an Option would otherwise cause the limit in rule 17 to be exceeded, it shall take effect as the grant of an Option under the Sub-Plan over the highest number of Shares which does not cause the limit to be exceeded. If more than one Option is granted on the same Date of Grant, the number of Shares which would otherwise be subject to each Option shall be reduced   pro rata  . 
    
  20.      Exercise Price Under Options 
    
  Notwithstanding Article G, Paragraph 3 of the Plan, the amount payable per Share on the exercise of an Option shall not be manifestly less than the Market Value of a Share on the Date of Grant. 
    
  21.      Performance target or other condition imposed on exercise of Option 
    
  Any performance target or other condition imposed on the exercise of an Option under Article B or Article J of the Plan shall be: 
    
  21.1    objective; 
    
  21.2    capable of being fulfilled within the period of ten years from the Date of Grant; 
    
  21.3    such that, once satisfied, the exercise of the Option is not subject to the discretion of any person; and 
    
  21.4    stated in the Option agreement. 
    
  If an event occurs as a result of which the Committee considers that a performance target or other condition imposed on the exercise of an Option is no longer appropriate and substitutes, varies or waives under Article J of the Plan the performance target or condition, such substitution, variation or waiver shall: 

21.5    be reasonable in the circumstances; and 
    
  21.6    except in the case of waiver produces a fairer measure of performance and is not materially more nor less difficult to satisfy. 
    
  22.      Latest Date for Exercise of Options 
    
  An Option may not be exercised more than ten years after the Date of Grant and to the extent not so exercised by that time the Option shall lapse immediately. 
    
  23.      Material Interest 
    
  An Option may not be exercised if the Option Holder then has, or has had within the preceding twelve months, a Material Interest in a Close Company which is the Company or which is a company which has Control of the Company or which is a member of a Consortium which owns the Company. 
    
  24.      Payment for Shares on Exercise of Options 
    
  The amount due on the exercise of an Option shall be paid in cash or by cheque or banker's draft and may be paid out of funds provided to the Option Holder on loan by a bank, broker or other person. Notwithstanding Article H, the payment may not be in the form of relinquishing a portion of the Option or paid by the transfer to the Company of Shares or any other shares or securities, and in any circumstance the Company must not charge an administrative fee for the exercise of an Option. The date of exercise of an Option shall be the date on which the Company receives the amount due on the exercise of the Option under this rule 24, together with any payment or documentation required under rule 32. 
    
  25.      Issue or Transfer of Shares on Exercise of Options 
    
  The Company shall, as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event not later than thirty days after the date of exercise of an Option, issue or transfer to the Option Holder, or procure the issue or transfer to the Option Holder of, the number of Shares specified in the notice of exercise, subject only to compliance by the Option Holder with the rules of the Sub-Plan and to any delay necessary to complete or obtain: 
    
  25.1    the listing of the Shares on any stock exchange on which Shares are then listed; or 
    
  25.2    such registration or other qualification of the Shares under any applicable law, rule or regulation as the Company determines is necessary or desirable. 
    
  26.      Death of Option Holder 
    
  Subject to rules 22 and 23, if an Option Holder dies before the tenth anniversary of the Date of Grant, his personal representatives shall be entitled to exercise his Options at any time during the twelve month period following his death. If not so exercised, the Options shall lapse immediately. 
    
  27.      Retirement of Option Holder 
    
  For the purpose of this Sub-Plan, notwithstanding Article L paragraph 6 shall be the attaining of the definition of Retirement specified age of 55 years of age. 
    
  28.      Change in Control of Company 
    
  28.1      Exchange of Options 
    
  Should a Change of Control occur within the terms of Article L paragraph 4 of the Plan then only if a company ( Acquiring Company ) obtains Control of the Company as a result of making: 
    
  28.1.1    a general offer to acquire the whole of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company which is made on a condition such that if it is satisfied the person making the offer will have Control of the Company; 
    
  28.1.2    a general offer to acquire all the shares in the Company of the same class as the Shares; 

28.1.3    a compromise or arrangement sanction by the court under Section 899 of the Companies Act 2006 or other local legislation which HMRC agrees is equivalent; or 
    
  28.1.4    an Acquiring Company becomes bound or entitled to acquire Shares under Sections 979 to 982 of the Companies Act 2006 or other local legislation which HMRC agrees is equivalent; 
    
  may an Option Holder, at any time during the period set out in rule 28.2, by agreement with the Acquiring Company, release his Option in consideration of the grant to him of a new option ( New Option ) which is equivalent to the Option but which relates to shares ( New Shares ) in: 
    
  1.    the Acquiring Company; 
    
  2.    a company which has Control of the Acquiring Company; or 
    
  3.    a company which either is, or has Control of, a company which is a member of a Consortium which owns either the Acquiring Company or a company having Control of the Acquiring Company. 
    
  28.2      Period Allowed for Exchange of Options 
    
  The period referred to in rule 28.1 is the period of six months beginning with the time when the person making the offer has obtained Control of the Company and any condition subject to which the offer is made has been satisfied. 
    
  28.3      Meaning of  Equivalent  
    
  The New Option shall not be regarded for the purpose of this rule 28 as equivalent to the Option unless: 
    
  28.3.1    the New Shares satisfy the conditions in paragraphs 16 to 20 of Schedule 4; and 
    
  28.3.2    save for any performance target or other condition imposed on the exercise of the Option, the New Option will be exercisable in the same manner as the Option and subject to the provisions of the Sub-Plan as it had effect immediately before the release of the Option; and 
    
  28.3.3    the total market value, immediately before the release of the Option, of the Shares which were subject to the Option is equal to the total market value, immediately after the grant of the New Option, of the New Shares subject to the New Option (market value being determined for this purpose in accordance with Part VIII of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992); and 
    
  28.3.4    the total amount payable by the Option Holder for the acquisition of the New Shares under the New Option is equal to the total amount that would have been payable by the Option Holder for the acquisition of the Shares under the Option. 
    
  28.4      Date of Grant of New Options 
    
  The date of grant of the New Option shall be deemed to be the same as the Date of Grant of the Option. 
    
  28.5      Application of Sub-Plan to New Option 
    
  In the application of the Sub-Plan to the New Option, where appropriate, references to  Company  and  Shares  shall be read as if they were references to the company to whose shares the New Option relates and the New Shares, respectively, (save that in the definition of  Committee  the reference to  Company  shall be read as if it were a reference to the Procter   Gamble Company). 
    
  29.      Rights Attaching to Shares Issued on Exercise of Options 
    
  Notwithstanding the provisions of Article B, Paragraph 2 of the Plan, which grant the Committee authority to determine the conditions and restrictions, if any, applying to shares of Common Stock acquired through the exercise of an option, all Shares issued in respect of the exercise of an Option shall, as to any voting, dividend, transfer and other rights, including those arising on a liquidation of the Company, rank equally in all respects and as one class with the shares of the same class in issue at the date of such issue save as regards any rights attaching to such shares by reference to a record date prior to the date of such issue. 

30.      Amendment of Sub-Plan 
    
  Notwithstanding Article L of the Plan, no amendment to a Key Feature of the Sub-Plan, whether taking the form of an amendment of the Plan or this Sub-Plan, shall take effect until it has been approved by the HM Revenue   Customs. 
    
  31.      Adjustment of Options 
    
  Notwithstanding Articles G Paragraph 13 and K of the Plan, to the extent that any adjustment of an Option is permitted under these Articles it: 
    
  31.1        shall not be made unless the adjustment is permitted pursuant to paragraph 22 of Schedule 4; and 
    
  31.2    shall not take effect until it has been approved by HM Revenue   Customs. 
    
  32.      Tax and Social Security Withholding 
    
  An Option may not be exercised unless the Option Holder has beforehand made provision for the payment or withholding of any taxes and social security required to be withheld in accordance with the applicable law of any jurisdiction in respect of the exercise of the Option, or the receipt of the Shares. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article H which permit different arrangements to be made to satisfy the payment in respect of any taxes and social security required to be withheld, the payment may not be in the form of relinquishing a portion of the Option or paid by the transfer to the Company of Shares or any other shares or securities, unless this is the Shares by virtue of the exercise of the Option and only then if the procedure has been agreed by HMRC in advance as not resulting in the imposition of unacceptable restrictions (under Schedule 4) on the shares. The Option Holder may, by agreement with the Company, enter into some other arrangement to ensure that such amount is available (whether by authorising the sale of some or all of the Shares subject to his Option and the payment to the Company, or where appropriate the Option Holder's employing company of the requisite amount out of the proceeds of sale or otherwise). Where this is the case the Option shall not be treated as exercised until the Company determines that such arrangements are satisfactory to it. 
    
  33.      Transfer of Employer's NIC 
    
  The Committee may, at its discretion, impose requirements for the payment by the Option Holder of all or any part of the Employer's NIC which may arise as a result of the exercise of his Option. Such requirements shall be specified on the Date of Grant and shall be a condition of exercise of the Option, provided that the Committee (acting fairly and reasonably) may waive these requirements. They may include in particular, but not by way of limitation, a determination that the Option may not be exercised unless the Option Holder has beforehand paid to the Company (or the company which employs the Option Holder, if different) an amount sufficient to discharge all or any part of the Employer's NIC. Alternatively, the Option Holder may, by agreement with the Company or the employing company (as the case may be), enter into some other arrangement to ensure that such amount is available to them or it (whether by authorising the sale of some or all of the Shares subject to his Option and the payment to the Company or the employing company (as the case may be) of the requisite amount out of the proceeds of sale or otherwise). Where this is the case the Option shall not be treated as exercised until the Company or the employing company (as the case may be) determine that such arrangements are satisfactory to it. 
    
  34.      Disapplication of Certain Provisions of Plan 
    
  Article F paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 shall not apply for the purpose of this Sub-Plan. In addition the provisions of the Plan dealing with: 

incentive stock options qualifying under section 422 of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; 
                
    stock appreciation rights; 
                
    unrestricted or restricted stock awards; 
                
    performance awards which are not stock options; 
                
    the cash cancellation of share options including those contained with Article L paragraph 4(b)(ii); and 
                
    the granting of share options in tandem with stock appreciation rights and the subsequent cancellation of share options 
       
  shall not form part of, and no such rights may be granted under, this Sub-Plan. 

</EX-10.21>

<EX-12>
 11
 fy171810-kexhibit12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (12) 
  The Procter   Gamble Company and Subsidiaries 
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 12
 fy171810-kexhibit21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (21) 
    
  The Procter   Gamble Company and Subsidiaries 
  Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

The Procter   Gamble Company and Subsidiaries 
    
  The registrant's subsidiaries are listed below, omitting certain entities that have de minimis activity or are in the process of being liquidated that, if considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of June 30, 2018. 
    
                 Agile Pursuits Franchising, Inc. 
    Ohio 
      Agile Pursuits, Inc. 
    Ohio 
      Arbora   Ausonia, S.L.U. 
    Spain 
      Arbora, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Arborinvest, S.A.U. 
    Spain 
      Braun (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Braun GmbH 
    Germany 
      Celtic Insurance Company, Inc.  
    Vermont 
      Compania Procter   Gamble Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Corporativo Procter   Gamble, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Cosmetic Products Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      Detergent Products B.V. 
    Netherlands  
      Detergent Products SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Detergenti S.A. 
    Romania 
      Eurocos Cosmetic GmbH 
    Germany 
      Fameccanica Data S.p.A. 
    Italy 
      Fameccanica Ind stria e Com rcio Do Brasil LTDA. 
    Brazil 
      Fameccanica Machinery (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Fameccanica North America, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Fater Central Europe SRL 
    Romania 
      Fater Morocco SARLAU 
    Morocco 
      Fater Portugal Unipessoal Lda 
    Portugal 
      Fater S.p.A. 
    Italy 
      Fater Temizlik Urunleri Ltd STI 
    Turkey 
      Fountain Square Music Publishing Co., Inc. 
    Ohio 
      FPG Oleochemicals Sdn. Bhd. 
    Malaysia 
      Gillette (China) Ltd. 
    China 
      Gillette (Shanghai) Ltd. 
    China 
      Gillette Aesop Ltd. 
    U.K. 
      Gillette Australia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      Gillette Commercial Operations North America 
    Massachusetts 
      Gillette del Uruguay, S.A. 
    Uruguay 
      Gillette Diversified Operations Pvt. Ltd. 
    India 
      Gillette Egypt S.A.E. 
    Egypt 
      Gillette Group UK Ltd 
    U.K. 
      Gillette Gruppe Deutschland GmbH   Co. oHG 
    Germany 
      Gillette Holding Company LLC 
    Delaware 
      Gillette Holding GmbH 
    Germany 
      Gillette India Limited 
    India 
      Gillette Industries Ltd. 
    U.K. 
      Gillette International B.V. 
    Netherlands  
      Gillette Latin America Holding B.V. 
    Netherlands  
      Gillette Management LLC 
    Delaware 
      Gillette Pakistan Limited 
    Pakistan 
      Gillette Poland International Sp. z.o.o. 
    Poland 
      Gillette Poland S.A. 
    Poland 
      Gillette U.K. Limited 
    U.K. 
      Giorgio Beverly Hills, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Hyginett KFT 
    Hungary 
      iMFLUX Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Industries Marocaines Modernes SA 
    Morocco 
      Laboratorios Vicks, S.L.U. 
    Spain 
      Liberty Street Music Publishing Company, Inc. 
    Ohio 
      Limited Liability Company 'Procter   Gamble Trading Ukraine'  
    Ukraine 
      LLC "Procter   Gamble Novomoskovsk" 
    Russia 
      LLC "Procter   Gamble Distributorskaya Compania" 
    Russia 
      LLC  Procter   Gamble Ukraine  
    Ukraine 
      Modern Industries Company - Dammam  
    Saudi Arabia 
      Modern Products Company   Jeddah 
    Saudi Arabia 
      New Chapter Canada Inc. 
    Canada 
      New Chapter, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Olay LLC  
    Puerto Rico 
      Oral-B Laboratories 
    Delaware 
      P G Distribution East Africa Limited 
    Kenya 
      P G Distribution Morocco SAS 
    Morocco 
      P G Hair Care Holding, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      P G Industrial Peru S.R.L. 
    Peru 
      P G Innovation Godo Kaisha 
    Japan 
      P G Israel M.D.O. Ltd. 
    Israel 
      P G K.K.  
    Japan 
      P G Northeast Asia Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      P G Prestige Godo Kaisha 
    Japan 
      P G South African Trading (Pty.) Ltd. 
    South Africa 
      PGT Health Care (Zhejiang) Limited 
    China 
      PGT Healthcare LLP 
    Delaware 
      Phase II Holdings Corporation 
    Philippines 
      Principle Forsaking AB 
    Sweden 
      PPI ZAO 
    Russia 
      Procter   Gamble (Chengdu) Ltd. 
    China 
      Procter   Gamble (China) Ltd. 
    China 
      Procter   Gamble (China) Sales Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Procter   Gamble (Egypt) Manufacturing Company 
    Egypt 
      Procter   Gamble (Enterprise Fund) Limited 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble (Guangzhou) Consumer Products Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Procter   Gamble (Guangzhou) Enterprise Management Service Company Limited 
    China 
      Procter   Gamble (Guangzhou) Ltd.   
    China 
      Procter   Gamble (Guangzhou) Technology Innovation Co., LTD. 
    China 
      Procter   Gamble (Health   Beauty Care) Limited 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble (Jiangsu) Ltd. 
    China 
      Procter   Gamble (L CP) Limited 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 
      Procter   Gamble (Manufacturing) Ireland Limited  
    Ireland 
      Procter   Gamble (Shanghai) International Trade Company Ltd. 
    China 
      Procter   Gamble (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Procter   Gamble Administration GmbH 
    Germany 
      Procter   Gamble Algeria EURL 
    Algeria 
      Procter   Gamble Amazon Holding B.V.  
    Netherlands  
      Procter   Gamble Amiens S.A.S. 
    France 
      Procter   Gamble Argentina SRL 
    Argentina 
      Procter   Gamble Australia Proprietary Limited  
    Australia 
      Procter   Gamble Azerbaijan Services LLC 
    Azerbaijan 
      Procter   Gamble Bangladesh Private Ltd. 
    Bangladesh 

Procter   Gamble Blois S.A.S. 
    France 
      Procter   Gamble Brazil Holdings B.V. 
    Netherlands  
      Procter   Gamble Bulgaria EOOD 
    Bulgaria 
      Procter   Gamble Business Services Canada Company 
    Canada 
      Procter   Gamble Canada Holding B.V. 
    Netherlands  
      Procter   Gamble Chile Limitada 
    Chile 
      Procter   Gamble Chile, Inc. 
    Ohio 
      Procter   Gamble Colombia Ltda. 
    Colombia 
      Procter   Gamble Commercial de Cuba, S.A. 
    Cuba 
      Procter   Gamble Commercial LLC 
    Puerto Rico 
      Procter   Gamble Czech Republic s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Procter   Gamble d.o.o. za trgovinu 
    Croatia 
      Procter   Gamble Danmark ApS 
    Denmark 
      Procter   Gamble de Venezuela, S.C.A. 
    Venezuela 
      Procter   Gamble de Venezuela, S.R.L. 
    Venezuela 
      Procter   Gamble Detergent (Beijing) Ltd. 
    China 
      Procter   Gamble Deuttschland GmbH 
    Germany 
      Procter   Gamble Distributing (Philippines) Inc. 
    Philippines 
      Procter   Gamble Distributing New Zealand Limited 
    New Zealand 
      Procter   Gamble Distribution Company (Europe) BVBA 
    Belgium 
      Procter   Gamble Distribution S.R.L. 
    Romania 
      Procter   Gamble do Brasil S/A 
    Brazil 
      Procter   Gamble do Brazil, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Procter   Gamble do Nordeste S/A 
    Brazil 
      Procter   Gamble DS Polska Sp. z o.o. 
    Poland 
      Procter   Gamble Eastern Europe, LLC 
    Ohio 
      Procter   Gamble Ecuador Cia. Ltda. 
    Ecuador 
      Procter   Gamble Egypt 
    Egypt 
      Procter   Gamble Egypt Distribution 
    Egypt 
      Procter   Gamble Egypt Holding 
    Egypt 
      Procter   Gamble Egypt Supplies 
    Egypt 
      Procter   Gamble Energy Company LLC 
    Ohio 
      Procter   Gamble Espa a, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Procter   Gamble Europe SA 
    Switzerland 
      Procter   Gamble Exportadora e Importadora Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Procter   Gamble Fabrica  o e Comercio Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Procter   Gamble Far East, Inc. 
    Ohio 
      Procter   Gamble Finance (U.K.) Ltd. 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble Finance Holding Ltd. 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble Finance Management S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Procter   Gamble Financial Investments LLP 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble Financial Services Ltd. 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble Financial Services S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Procter   Gamble Finland OY 
    Finland 
      Procter   Gamble France S.A.S. 
    France 
      Procter   Gamble Germany GmbH 
    Germany 
      Procter   Gamble Germany GmbH   Co. Operations oHG 
    Germany 
      Procter   Gamble Ghana Trading Limited 
    Ghana 
      Procter   Gamble GmbH 
    Germany 
      Procter   Gamble Grundstucks-und Vermogensverwaltungs GmbH   Co. KG 
    Germany 
      Procter   Gamble Gulf FZE 
    United Arab Emirates 
      Procter   Gamble Hair Care, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Procter   Gamble Hellas Ltd. 
    Greece 
      Procter   Gamble Holding (Thailand) Limited 
    Thailand 

Procter   Gamble Holding France S.A.S. 
    France 
      Procter   Gamble Holding GmbH 
    Germany 
      Procter   Gamble Holding S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Procter   Gamble Holdings (UK) Ltd. 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble Home Products Private Limited 
    India 
      Procter   Gamble Hong Kong Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Procter   Gamble Hungary Wholesale Trading Partnership (KKT) 
    Hungary 
      Procter   Gamble Hygiene   Health Care Limited 
    India 
      Procter   Gamble Inc. 
    Canada 
      Procter   Gamble India Holdings, Inc. 
    Ohio 
      Procter   Gamble Indochina Limited Company 
    Vietnam 
      Procter   Gamble Industrial - 2012 C.A. 
    Venezuela 
      Procter   Gamble Industrial Colombia Ltda. 
    Colombia 
      Procter   Gamble Industrial e Comercial Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Procter   Gamble Industrial S.C.A. 
    Venezuela 
      Procter   Gamble Interamericas de Costa Rica, Limitada 
    Costa Rica 
      Procter   Gamble Interamericas de Guatemala, Limitada 
    Guatemala 
      Procter   Gamble Interamericas de Panama, S. de R.L. 
    Panama 
      Procter   Gamble International Operations Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Procter   Gamble International Operations SA 
    Switzerland 
      Procter   Gamble International S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Procter   Gamble Investment Company (UK) Ltd. 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble Investment Holding B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Procter   Gamble Italia, S.p.A. 
    Italy 
      Procter   Gamble Japan K.K. 
    Japan 
      Procter   Gamble Kazakhstan Distribution LLP 
    Kazakhstan 
      Procter   Gamble Kazakhstan LLP 
    Kazakhstan 
      Procter   Gamble Korea S D Co. 
    Korea 
      Procter   Gamble Korea, Inc. 
    Korea 
      Procter   Gamble Lanka Private Ltd. 
    Sri Lanka 
      Procter   Gamble Leasing LLC 
    Ohio 
      Procter   Gamble Levant S.A.L. 
    Lebanon 
      Procter   Gamble Limited 
    U.K. 
      "Procter   Gamble" LLC 
    Russia 
      "Procter   Gamble Services" LLC 
    Russia 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing (Thailand) Limited 
    Thailand 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing (Tianjin) Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Belgium N.V. 
    Belgium 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Berlin GmbH 
    Germany 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing GmbH 
    Germany 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V.  
    Mexico 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing SA (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Procter   Gamble Marketing and Services doo  
    Serbia and Montenegro 
      Procter   Gamble Marketing Romania SRL 
    Romania 
      Procter   Gamble Maroc SA 
    Morocco 
      Procter   Gamble Mataro, S.L.U. 
    Spain 
      Procter   Gamble Mexico Holding B.V. 
    Netherlands  
      Procter   Gamble Mexico Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Procter   Gamble Middle East FZE 
    United Arab Emirates 
      Procter   Gamble Nederland B.V. 
    Netherlands  
      Procter   Gamble Netherlands Investments B.V.  
    Netherlands  
      Procter   Gamble Netherlands Services B.V.  
    Netherlands  
      Procter   Gamble Nigeria Limited 
    Nigeria 

Procter   Gamble Nordic, LLC 
    Ohio 
      Procter   Gamble Norge AS 
    Norway 
      Procter   Gamble Operations Polska Sp. z o.o. 
    Poland 
      Procter   Gamble Overseas India B.V. 
    Netherlands  
      Procter   Gamble Overseas Ltd. 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble Pakistan (Private) Limited 
    Pakistan 
      Procter   Gamble Partnership LLP 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble Peru S.R.L. 
    Peru 
      Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals France SAS 
    France 
      Procter   Gamble Philippines, Inc. 
    Philippines 
      Procter   Gamble Polska Sp. z o.o 
    Poland 
      Procter   Gamble Portugal - Produtos De Consumo, Higiene e Sa de S.A. 
    Portugal 
      Procter   Gamble Product Supply (U.K.) Limited 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble Production GmbH 
    Germany 
      Procter   Gamble Productions, Inc. 
    Ohio 
      Procter   Gamble Productos de Consumo, S.L.U. 
    Spain 
      Procter   Gamble Retail Services BVBA  
    Belguim 
      Procter   Gamble Retail Services SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Procter   Gamble RHD, Inc. 
    Ohio 
      Procter   Gamble RSC Regional Service Company Ltd. 
    Hungary 
      Procter   Gamble S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Procter   Gamble SA (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Procter   Gamble Satis ve Dagitim Ltd. Sti. 
    Turkey 
      Procter   Gamble Service GmbH 
    Germany 
      Procter   Gamble Services (Switzerland) SA 
    Switzerland 
      Procter   Gamble Services Company N.V. 
    Belgium 
      Procter   Gamble South America Holding B.V. 
    Netherlands  
      Procter   Gamble Sverige AB 
    Sweden 
      Procter   Gamble Switzerland SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Procter   Gamble Taiwan Limited 
    Taiwan 
      Procter   Gamble Taiwan Sales Company Limited 
    Taiwan 
      Procter   Gamble Technical Centres Limited 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Procter   Gamble Trading (Thailand) Limited 
    Thailand 
      Procter   Gamble Tuketim Mallari Sanayii A.S. 
    Turkey 
      Procter   Gamble UK 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble UK Group Holdings Ltd 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble UK Parent Company Ltd. 
    U.K. 
      Procter   Gamble Universal Holding B.V. 
    Netherlands  
      Procter   Gamble Verwaltungs GmbH 
    Germany 
      Procter   Gamble Vietnam, Ltd. 
    Vietnam 
      Procter   Gamble, Spol. s.r.o. (Ltd.)  
    Slovak Republic 
      Procter   Gamble-Rakona s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Progam Realty   Development Corporation 
    Philippines 
      PT Procter   Gamble Home Products Indonesia  
    Indonesia 
      PT Procter   Gamble Operations Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
      Redmond Products, Inc. 
    Minnesota 
      Richardson-Vicks Real Estate Inc. 
    Ohio 
      Riverfront Music Publishing Co., Inc. 
    Ohio 
      Rosemount LLC 
    Delaware 
      Series Acquisition B.V. 
    Netherlands  
      Shulton, Inc. 
    New Jersey 
      Snowberry IP Limited 
    New Zealand 
      Snowberry New Zealand Limited 
    New Zealand 

SPD Development Company Limited 
    U.K. 
      SPD Swiss Precision Diagnostics GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Sunflower Distributing LLC 
    Delaware 
      Surfac S.R.L. 
    Peru 
      Sycamore Productions, Inc. 
    Ohio 
      Tambrands Inc. 
    Delaware 
      TAOS - FL, LLC 
    Florida 
      TAOS Retail, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Temple Trees Impex   Investment Private Limited 
    India 
      The Art of Shaving - FL, LLC 
    Florida 
      The Dover Wipes Company 
    Ohio 
      The Gillette Company LLC 
    Delaware 
      The Procter   Gamble Distributing LLC 
    Delaware 
      The Procter   Gamble GBS Company 
    Ohio 
      The Procter   Gamble Global Finance Company, LLC 
    Ohio 
      The Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Company 
    Ohio 
      The Procter   Gamble Paper Products Company 
    Ohio 
      The Procter   Gamble U.S. Business Services Company 
    Ohio 
      US CD LLC 
    Delaware 
      Vidal Sassoon (Shanghai) Academy 
    China 
      Vidal Sassoon Co. 
    Ohio 
      WEBA Betriebsrenten-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH 
    Germany 
      Zenlen, Inc. 
    Delaware 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 13
 fy171810-kexhibit23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (23) 
    
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements of our reports dated August 7, 2018, relating to the consolidated financial statements of The Procter   Gamble Company, and the effectiveness of The Procter   Gamble Company s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Procter   Gamble Company for the year ended June 30, 2018:  
    
             3. 
    Registration Statement No. 33-50273 on Form S-8 for The Procter   Gamble Commercial Company Employees  Savings Plan;  
               5. 
    Registration Statement No. 333-14381 on Form S-8 for Profit Sharing Retirement Plan of The Procter   Gamble Commercial Company;  
                8. 
    Registration Statement No. 333-51213 on Form S-8 for Group Profit Sharing, Incentive and Employer Contribution Plan (France);  
                               26. 
    Registration Statement No. 333-128859 on Form S-8 for certain employee benefit plans of The Gillette Company (2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan of The Gillette Company; 1971 Stock Option Plan of The Gillette Company; James M. Kilts Non-Statutory Stock Option Plan; The Gillette Company  

Employees  Savings Plan; The Gillette Company Supplemental Savings Plan; The Gillette Company Global Employee Stock Ownership Plan (GESOP));  

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 
    
  Cincinnati, Ohio  
  August 7, 2018 

</EX-23>

<EX-31>
 14
 fy171810-kexhibit31.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (31) 
    
  Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications    

I, David S. Taylor, certify that: 
    
           (1) 
    I have reviewed this Form 10-K of The Procter   Gamble Company; 
       
           (2) 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  
       
           (3) 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           (4) 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
           (5) 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/    DAVID S. TAYLOR 
    
  (David S. Taylor) 
  Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 
    
  August 7, 2018                                              
  Date 

EXHIBIT (31) 
    
  Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications 

I, Jon R. Moeller, certify that: 
    
           (1) 
    I have reviewed this Form 10-K of The Procter   Gamble Company; 
       
           (2) 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  
       
           (3) 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           (4) 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
           (5) 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/    JON R. MOELLER 
    
  (Jon R. Moeller) 
  Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer 
    
  August 7, 2018                                  
  Date 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 15
 fy171810-kexhibit32.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (32) 
    
  Section 1350 Certifications 
    
  Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officer of The Procter   Gamble Company (the  Company ) certifies to his knowledge that: 

(2) 
    The information contained in that Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial conditions and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/    DAVID S. TAYLOR 
    
  (David S. Taylor) 
  Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 
    
  August 7, 2018 
  Date 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to The Procter   Gamble Company and will be retained by The Procter   Gamble Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

EXHIBIT (32) 
    
  Section 1350 Certifications 
    
  Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officer of The Procter   Gamble Company (the  Company ) certifies to his knowledge that: 

(2) 
    The information contained in that Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial conditions and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/    JON R. MOELLER 
    
  (Jon R. Moeller) 
  Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer 
    
  August 7, 2018 
  Date 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to The Procter   Gamble Company and will be retained by The Procter   Gamble Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32>

<EX-99.1>
 16
 fy171810-kexhibit99x1.htm
 SUMMARY OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS INSURANCE PROGRAM

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT (99-1) 
    
  Summary of Directors and Officers Insurance Program 
    
  T  he Procter   Gamble Company purchases Directors and Officers Liability insurance from various insurance carriers.  The policy limits for the period from June 30, 2017 to June 30, 2018 were $300 million. 

</EX-99.1>

<EX-101.SCH>
 17
 pg-20180630.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 18
 pg-20180630_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 19
 pg-20180630_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 20
 pg-20180630_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 21
 pg-20180630_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

